46 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk review continued Whistleblowing All Debenhams employees are required to adhere to the code of business conduct and the anti-bribery and corruption policy, with senior employees required to confirm their compliance in writing.
These policies set out the ethical standards expected by the Group and include details of how matters can be raised in strict confidence.
Two main routes are available to employees at all levels within the Group to raise concerns over malpractice.
The first, Employees guidelines to problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their managers line manager or, if still concerned, to call HR Connect the central human resources team directly.
The second route is a confidential reporting line through which employees can speak to the Group anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, s he can contact the Company Secretary or the Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
The Groups policy on whistleblowing and these methods of raising issues of concern are published on the Debenhams intranet and emphasised on posters.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
All serious matters identified are raised with the chairman of the Audit Committee.
Business continuity planning The business continuity committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Retail Director, HR Director and Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
Other executives are invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
The objectives of this committee are to ensure that potential threats to the Group and the impacts that those threats might cause have been identified, that a framework that builds organisational resilience to known threats is in place and that the framework is capable of providing an effective response to safeguard the Group.
The committee uses a framework based on ISO 22301:2012 Business Continuity Management Systems and undertakes a number of key activities.
These are to review and agree: the business continuity management policy and how it will be managed and communicated: the risks and threats facing the Group and prioritise them based on the evaluation of their severity and likelihood: the business continuity management strategy: the business continuity management response and its implementation: the process for exercising, maintaining and reviewing business continuity management arrangements: and the mechanisms to embed business continuity management in the Groups culture.
Principal risks and uncertainties The risks detailed on pages 47 to 51 and in the notes to the financial statements are the principal risks and uncertainties that may impact the Groups ability to achieve its strategic and operational goals.
Both external factors and internal factors are included in the risks and uncertainties that could substantially impact performance and therefore delivery of one or more of the four pillars of the strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand focusing on UK retail, delivering a compelling customer proposition, increasing availability and choice through multi-channel and expanding the brand internationally.
Relevant mitigation for each risk is also outlined.
These risks are presented in no particular order but have been grouped by type of risk.
It should be noted that any system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 47 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 External risks Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Continuing adverse economic conditions may have The board conducts strategic business reviews which ensure a material adverse effect on Debenhams results that management is focused on key priorities and cost control.
These reviews also focus on the four pillars of the Groups A decline in sales on discretionary purchases and strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand.
reduction in gross transaction value The ongoing economic situation means that households generally remain cautious about non-discretionary spending.
The sector in which Debenhams operates Debenhams brand and product strategy gives customers a is highly competitive unique, differentiated and exclusive choice of brands, products and categories within a good better best pricing architecture.
Place pressure on our pricing strategy, margins and An understanding of customers and their needs is developed profitability by listening to their views, market intelligence and reviewing key Failing to deliver business critical projects may divert performance indicators which ensures that pricing is competitive.
financial and management resources from more Debenhams is investing additional resources in customer beneficial uses and significantly damage ability analytics and insight including the development of a single to manage information technology systems customer view.
Business critical projects are undertaken to support the delivery of strategic objectives.
For each such project, a full investment appraisal is conducted as part of the decision making process and must be signed off by a member of the executive committee before any work is undertaken.
As part of project governance, a steering committee monitors all key areas involved in delivery, a framework is used, selected projects will be reviewed by internal audit and post investment appraisals are undertaken.
To strengthen the resilience of core systems and to enhance the overall governance framework, an information systems road map has been developed.
This will also support the efficient and effective delivery of strategic projects.
Factors influencing the sustainability of Debenhams fosters excellent, mutually beneficial relationships the supply chain with its suppliers.
Both parties work towards the objective of optimising sustainable fulfilment and costs, which is measured Any of the risks associated with doing business in regularly by management through key performance indicators.
foreign markets and or importing merchandise from Alongside this, Debenhams develops multiple sourcing routes these regions could place pressure on margins or to ensure pricing remains competitive and that demand can require the Group to divert financial and management be supplied.
resources from more beneficial uses Debenhams and its suppliers will continue to work hard to deliver the best performance possible in a very challenging market.
This is a decreasing risk as Debenhams continues to develop its supplier base to mitigate the potential of cost price inflation without compromising the quality of its products.
In addition, the sourcing division has been strengthened to include additional expertise which assists with sourcing decisions, production consolidation and lead time reduction, amongst other things.
Factors outside Debenhams control, such as A key objective of the energy committee is to control increases in energy or fuel costs, may have an energy usage, including the impact of the Carbon Reduction adverse effect on its results Commitment scheme.
An energy hedging policy is in place to provide a high degree of cost certainty in the short-term.
Place pressure on margin and will also divert financial and management resources from more beneficial uses Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2013.
48 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk review continued Financial risks Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Currency fluctuations and hedging risks could Debenhams operates a treasury policy which covers materially adversely affect Debenhams earnings counterparty limits and hedging for interest rates, foreign and cash flow exchange and energy.
There is also an internal treasury function which is mandated by the board and audited annually.
Hinder ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and impact earnings and cash flow Debenhams closely monitors all aspects of cash management to optimise balance sheet metrics.
Effectiveness is measured Hedging strategy may not adequately protect regularly by management through a series of key performance operating results from the impact of exchange rate indicators.
fluctuations or may limit any benefit caused by favourable movements in exchange rates Business critical spreadsheets and databases used by the finance department have been identified and appropriate Affect available cash and liquidity and could have control measures are used in line with Debenhams policy material effect on the business, results of operations to ensure data integrity.
and financial condition An increase in the Groups funding needs or The trustees of the Groups pension schemes carefully changes to obligations in respect of its pension monitor the pension fund and alter the investment strategy schemes could have an adverse impact on its as appropriate.
Any shortfall in funding is brought to the business in the longer term attention of the board.
An increase in the Groups pension related liabilities could have a material adverse impact on the Groups profits and cash flow in the longer term Please refer to the notes to the financial statements for other risks in this category.
Strategic risks Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Debenhams may not be able to predict accurately Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer awareness or fulfil customer preferences or demand research to understand current demands and preferences.
It delivers these requirements through multiple channels, Sales will be lower, market share will be reduced including its store and non-store sales channels.
To achieve this, and may be forced to rely on additional markdowns these channels are constantly developed and high operational or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slowstandards maintained to differentiate from competitors.
Stock moving inventory or may experience inventory levels and the supply chain are monitored closely in order shortfalls on popular merchandise, any of which to ensure product newness is maximised.
could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations Debenhams depends upon key management and In order to attract and retain talent, both succession and other personnel and the departure of such personal development plans are in place throughout the management or personnel could adversely affect Group.
In addition, target-led, performance-related incentive its business schemes exist.
Could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of Debenhams business plan and could have a material adverse effect on Debenhams business, financial condition or results of operations A failure to develop and implement Debenhams Debenhams undertakes research of key markets and new store rollout successfully may adversely affect demographics to identify potential locations to drive growth its business through new space, which may also take the form of an acquisition.
A full investment appraisal is conducted as part Reduced growth or a decline in gross transaction of the decision making process and a specialist team has value and may be required to write down the value of responsibility for end-to-end management of each project any stock acquired for sale in an uncompleted store once the decision is made.
Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2013.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 49 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic risks Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Any events that negatively impact the reputation Ethical sourcing, legislative change and corporate responsibility of or value associated with Debenhams brand matters are key areas of focus for the sustainability committee.
could adversely affect its business To ensure that Debenhams has the most current information available, it is a member of relevant industry bodies that provide Unfavourable publicity concerning Debenhams, awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Debenhams its ethical trading policies, its business policies is an active member of Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and including health and safety, its corporate expects all suppliers to follow the ETI base code and adhere to responsibility practices, any of its brands Debenhams own supplier code of conduct which is underpinned or products, its supply chain practices or any by Debenhams robust policy on compliance with a real focus of its franchisees or manufacturers or a substantial on social and ethical standards.
erosion in the reputation of, or value associated with, the Debenhams brand may lead to a loss As Bangladesh will continue to be a major source of production, of stakeholder trust and confidence and could Debenhams is in the process of opening a local presence to have a material adverse effect on Debenhams ensure that production is only carried out in appropriate factories.
ability to attract and retain third party brands, Debenhams has signed the Bangladesh Accord which commits suppliers, designers, concessions and franchisees, the signatories to the goal of a safe and sustainable ready-made which could consequently impact Debenhams garment industry in that country in which no worker needs business, financial condition or results of operations to fear fires, building collapses or other accidents that could be prevented with reasonable health and safety measures.
A reliance on third party suppliers and franchisees, the challenges of the current economic environment and the complexity of the new and existing legislation makes this an ongoing risk which Debenhams and its suppliers franchisees have to manage.
An executive health and safety committee exists to review compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and a number of participants are members of various relevant industry bodies.
The committee receives input from specialist teams which focus on discrete aspects.
These include health and safety, building services, insurance and retail operations.
To support compliance and to maintain high operational standards, health and safety awareness programmes are in place and each site has its own health and safety committee.
50 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk review continued Hazard Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Factors outside Debenhams control, such as The business continuity committee is comprised of senior damage or interruptions due to operational executives and works to a framework based on the most recent disruption, natural disaster, pandemics, terrorist international standard.
The key objectives of this committee activity, strikes or riots may have a material are to ensure that potential threats to the organisation and the adverse effect on its results impacts that those threats might cause have been identified, that a framework that builds organisational resilience to known Unable to continue operations smoothly in the event threats is in place and that the framework has the capability of a major incident which may have an adverse effect on to deliver an effective response to safeguard the Group.
inventory and gross transaction value and divert financial and management resources from more beneficial uses.
Monitoring processes are in place across a number of key Any terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, social unrest or business systems, alongside specialist teams and a disaster other geopolitical uncertainty could result in a significant recovery site is in place where associated systems are tested reduction in consumer confidence and spending levels to ensure that invocation would work if required.
Risks associated with systems failure, external attack Insurance policies have been placed as appropriate to minimise of systems, or data inaccuracy may also significantly the impact of specific risks.
damage ability to manage information technology This is an increasing risk based on the unpredictable instability systems or could cause inappropriate decisions to of various territories around the world.
be made using wrong or ambiguous information Debenhams business could suffer as a result Debenhams sells a diverse mix of product categories in order to of weak sales during peak selling seasons reduce reliance on categories that may be weather dependent.
or extreme or unseasonal weather conditions To help mitigate the impact of this risk, should it occur, management would review the benefits of strengthening both planned and Adverse effect on inventory, gross transaction value tactical promotional activity or marketing activity to drive sales.
and results of operations This has been separated out from the risk covering natural disasters see above in recognition of the impact that this risk has had and could have on Debenhams business.
Debenhams business may be materially adversely Debenhams has specialist accounting, taxation and legal and affected by changes to, or a breach by the Group secretariat teams and is also a member of key industry bodies of, laws or regulations which provide awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Adverse effect on inventory and gross transaction Forums exist to focus on specific areas of legislation and specific value and will divert financial and management business policies and procedures are in place to ensure roles resources from more beneficial uses and responsibilities are understood across the Group.
Theft of customer data or breach of payment card Steering groups exist for both data protection and PCI standards industry PCI standards could adversely affect which review and report on compliance levels.
Debenhams utilises Debenhams business operations, reputation external specialists as required to assist in achieving its compliance and results goals, with compliance to the PCI standard monitored by management and reported to the Audit Committee.
A number Negative effect on reputation leading to loss of of security tools are employed to protect data, including stakeholder trust and confidence, with subsequent encryption, intruder detection and data loss prevention.
impact on performance and results, and will divert financial and management resources from more beneficial uses Any disruption or other adverse event affecting In order to minimise the impact of any third party relationship Debenhams relationship with any of its major or performance issues, Debenhams objectives are to: maintain suppliers, franchise partners, store card providers, excellent third party relationships by ensuring strategies are designers, concessionaires or outsourcing partners aligned: have appropriate, unambiguous contracts in place: ensure third parties are financially robust: and have contingency Costs associated with the transfer of the operations or the plans in place in the event of a failure e. g. conversion of space potential of extra operational cost from a new provider to own bought for concessionaire failure, multiple sourcing Changes in exclusivity arrangements with designers routes for supplier failure.
or any decline in their popularity could have a material Following the Cypriot financial crisis, management is closely adverse impact monitoring the performance of the franchise business in Loss of a number of important concession or franchise this territory.
partners may adversely affect gross transaction value Furthermore, controls and the financial support behind Adverse events within the supply chain could restrict the receivables have been strengthened to mitigate the risk availability or significantly increase the cost of goods of franchise partner failure.
Credit insurance difficulties for a significant number of suppliers could lead to a detrimental variation of terms or alternative suppliers used to source some goods Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 51 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Hazard continued Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Acts of fraud, theft and industrial espionage could In order to mitigate fraud across all channels in which adversely affect Debenhams business operations, Debenhams operates, a number of preventative measures reputation and results are in place.
These include accounting policies and procedures, systems access restrictions, expenditure authorisation levels, Negative effect on reputation and will divert whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption policies and financial and management resources from more a code of business conduct, all of which provide employees with beneficial uses guidelines on how to escalate an issue confidentially.
A variety of monitoring mechanisms are used to identify fraudulent activity including data mining across point of sale and head office functions.
As part of the organisation-wide risk assessment, individual managers sign an anti-fraud, bribery and corruption declaration.
Issues identified are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee.
Operational risks Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Ineffective brand awareness and marketing Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer awareness programmes could materially adversely affect research to understand current demands and preferences.
Debenhams business and sales This information is used to identify specific segments of the market to target and to form a proposal for a marketing Loss of market share, customer loyalty, reduction in campaign.
A full investment appraisal is conducted and must gross transaction value and a decline in sales on be signed off by a member of the executive committee before discretionary purchases any campaign is undertaken.
Campaign effectiveness is monitored through external feedback and internal analysis.
Risks associated with Debenhams properties may Debenhams has a specialist property team which manages all have a material adverse effect on Debenhams aspects of leasehold property, including cost renegotiations, business, financial condition or results of operations communication of the store modernisation programme, lease renewals and adherence to all legal obligations under the lease.
Significant alterations in rental terms could have a material adverse effect on the business, as would Debenhams is also a member of key industry bodies which failure to secure desirable locations provide awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Disputes over store modernisations may lead to Debenhams consults with industry experts to ensure that the reinstatement costs and termination of leases may asbestos policy and asbestos register are fully up to date.
All lead to dilapidation costs being incurred locations where asbestos has been identified are clearly marked with signage and the condition is checked on a regular basis Failure to manage asbestos in specific properties may with action taken in the event of any deterioration.
Any works lead to fines or other liabilities affecting Debenhams undertaken in these areas are approved by both the health reputation and the full or partial closure of properties and safety and building services teams prior to any work permits Following the sales of leases by members of the being issued with specialist companies used as required.
Group and guarantees which may have been given in respect of leases taken by former members of the Group, should an assignee or former member of the Group default under such a lease, then the relevant member of the Group would then be liable for the fulfilment of obligations under the lease Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2013.
