44 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk review continued Management is responsible for ensuring that risks are evaluated correctly, with support from the finance department as required.
Individual managers consider the cumulative impact of all risks across their particular area of operation when determining the state of their overall control environment.
The purpose of this exercise is to calculate the risk score for each risk identified, which determines the level of treatment expected.
The board reviews the key risks to the Group, taking action to strengthen where necessary, and the output from this is used to populate the Groups risk map.
Risk treatment The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, which is defined as the risk appetite and is outlined in figure 3.
Figure 3: Risk appetite matrix Risk Risk matrix Risk Treatment acceptance Risk score zone Action response timeframe owner 1, 2, 3 or 4 Green Optional Treat or 9-12 months Head of Limited tolerate department 8, 9 or 12 Yellow Optional Treat or 6-9 months Line director Moderate tolerate 16, 18 or 27 Orange Yes Treat, transfer 3-6 months Executive Significant or terminate committee 32, 36, 48 Red Yes Treat, transfer 0-3 months Main board or 64 Ultimate or terminate The risk score, derived from the risk ranking matrix, is compared to the risk appetite matrix, which provides guidance on the expected level of treatment, timeframes and authority levels.
The four methods used to treat risk are: Tolerate accept risk and take no further action Treat reduce risk by defining and completing appropriate actions to improve or implement controls Transfer share a risk via insurance policies or asking a third party to take the risk in another way Terminate avoid risk quickly and decisively by eliminating or re-engineering the activities that lead to the risk occurring Risk reporting and monitoring Individual managers are expected to define and analyse the reports they require to enhance financial and operational performance and identify emerging risks or control failures.
Financial performance is monitored through a number of processes.
An operating plan is prepared in August of each year, shortly before the start of the financial year, and a revised forecast is prepared each month of the financial year which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the plan.
In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key metrics.
Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management accounts are prepared, all of which report on performance against the operating plan, last year and forecast.
Additionally, a treasury report is delivered to members of the executive committee and to the Audit Committee which covers matters such as senior operating restrictions, covenant reporting and forecasting under the Groups banking facilities, exposure to foreign exchange and hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash flow and cash flow forecasting, and amounts deposited with counterparties.
Performance is reviewed by the board, executive committee, Audit Committee, business continuity management committee and at executive health and safety meetings.
There are also other mechanisms in place to monitor risks such as internal audit reviews, critical and serious risk monitor, fraud detection systems, whistleblowing, stock counts and security equipment such as CCTV.
