I 2 3 4 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the groups operations which could have a significant impact on our business, results and financial position.
The group has established risk management processes Particular attention is paid to those risks which may have to monitor, manage and mitigate the risks involved in an impact on the achievement of group strategy.
managers throughout the group are consulted to identify likely risks.
The Board has established a committee specifically to address the risks to which the business is exposed.
This committee, Details of the most significant risks faced by the group are which consists of the executive management of the group, set out on pages 28 to 31.
This year we indicate where the met four times in 2013.
The responsibilities of the committee Board has appetite for risk.
At its simplest, risk appetite are to identify the most significant risks facing the business, can be defined as the amount of risk on a broad level, that and to develop policies and actions to mitigate such risks.
a company is prepared to take on in the pursuit of value.
RISK LEVEL OF IMPACT MITIGATION TREND APPETITE Loss of market share High A major change in the production In addition to substantial Increased profit margins due to capacities, pricing policies or capital investment, the increased competitive behaviour of our competitors, group invests over 7 pressures or consolidation between either million in research and The group operates competitors or major customers, development activities in competitive markets could have a significant adverse each year to extend and throughout the world.
effect on sales revenues and differentiate the product profitability.
range and improve the quality of our products.
We also expand the total collagen casings market by developing products which convert gut casing applications to collagen.
Devro provides a high level of technical support to key customers.
Delays or cost overruns High The project costs are estimated at Dedicated project teams New on major projects 40 million USA and 50 million have been set up for The group is embarking China.
Cost overruns would reduce each project.
A new on two major projects the returns on these investments Technical & Operations in South Carolina, USA and use more cash resources.
Director, with previous and Nantong, China.
experience of building A delay in completing the Unexpected delays or a factory in China, was commissioning of these plants cost overruns would recruited in 2013. could significantly impact earnings reduce returns.
Experienced external engineers and contractors have been engaged.
28 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 RISK LEVEL OF IMPACT MITIGATION TREND APPETITE Disruption to supply or Low Raw collagen represents The group manages the Unchanged increase in price of key approximately 15% of the groups collagen sourcing risk raw materials total operating costs.
by, where possible, The groups most entering into long-term Increase in price would adversely important raw material arrangements with impact the groups operating costs.
is collagen, a naturally specialised suppliers Disruption to supply could adversely occurring animal protein in various parts of affect manufacturing performance.
obtained from cattle the world.
We monitor There is a risk that developments and changes may occur changes in the global in the supply or demand abattoir and leather for food grade collagen, industries to maintain resulting in significant and develop appropriate cost increases for the relationships.
Product contamination Low Contamination could lead to a All of our manufacturing Unchanged Raw materials and product recall, loss of reputation, or sites have achieved ingredients may contain significant costs of compensation.
impurities, contamination This requires a Hazard or disease.
Analysis and Critical Control Point programme to be implemented with the aim of preventing contamination.
Foreign exchange Medium This may result in adverse impacts The financial impact Unchanged rate movements on revenues, costs and the sterling of exchange rate As an international value of reported profits.
Almost fluctuations within business, with costs being 90% of the groups revenues are our operating units is incurred and revenues currently invoiced in currencies mitigated by a policy earned in several different other than sterling.
of hedging a substantial currencies, the group portion of transactional is exposed to the risk of foreign exchange risk for changes in the relative periods of up to fifteen strengths of currencies.
months using forward This risk increases in times contracts.
The group of international economic does not hedge the risk uncertainty.
arising from changes in the rates at which oversees earnings are translated into sterling.
People Medium There is considerable competition Following the Unchanged Shortage of people with for highly trained staff in certain recruitment of the relevant technical expertise.
Devros strategy of significant Group Human Resources investment in the companys Director in 2012, a manufacturing base requires the number of internal recruitment and retention of highlyprogrammes have been skilled technical managers and introduced to train and employees.
In addition, recruitment initiatives are underway in order to ensure that major capital projects will be managed effectively.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 I 2 3 4 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued RISK LEVEL OF IMPACT MITIGATION TREND APPETITE Customer credit risks Medium Customer credit default may The group has established Unchanged The group is exposed to adversely affect the groups internal procedures and controls financial risks arising from business, results or financial to mitigate the risk of nonits trading with customers condition, particularly during payment wherever we do and distributors in a large periods of difficult global business.
For example, we number of countries economic conditions.
require either payment in where prevailing payment advance or confirmed letters terms are diverse.
This of credit before releasing includes not only product to customers or customer risk, but also distributors in parts of the the risk of failures in the world considered to be at risk.
banking system and may increase in times of economic uncertainty.
Impact of changes in Medium Changes to food safety The Global Quality and Increased regulations affecting food regulations could result in Regulatory Affairs Director production restrictions on the movement actively monitors planned and As a food manufacturer, of the groups products, or actual changes to regulations in the group complies with its raw materials, between all relevant jurisdictions in order all relevant food safety territories, or necessitate to minimise disruption to its regulations.
These changes to the production business.
regulations are not only processes at one or more of The group is a founder member those of the jurisdictions the groups manufacturing of the Collagen Casings Trade where products are facilities.
Association, which represents manufactured the the industry and promotes its European Union, the USA excellent record in regulatory and Australia, but also and health issues.
Supplier the regulations of the approval and traceability many countries in which are under constant review.
Regulatory authorities routinely enact changes to food safety legislation.
Increases in energy costs Medium There is a risk that significant There is a strong focus on Unchanged Energy represents a major additional costs may be measures aimed at reducing element of the groups incurred in future as a result usage and cost per unit of manufacturing costs, of increased energy prices.
An example is the but may be subject to Energy costs currently investment in the co-generation significant price volatility.
represent approximately plant at our Australian factory.
9% of the groups total In addition, costs are actively operating costs.
managed by entering into fixed-price contracts where these are considered appropriate.
As the group replaces old fixed assets, energy consumption tends to reduce, as new machines are generally more energy efficient.
30 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 RISK LEVEL OF IMPACT MITIGATION TREND APPETITE Increased funding Low Any significant deterioration The position and performance Unchanged requirements in the schemes asset values of each of the pension schemes of pension schemes or unforeseen increases in are continually monitored Estimates of the amount scheme liabilities might by the group, in conjunction and timing of future increase the groups funding with pension trustees and funding obligations for the obligations and could professional advisers.
groups defined benefit adversely affect the groups All defined benefit schemes are pension schemes are profits and financial strength.
closed to new entrants, and the based on various group is actively working to assumptions, including match assets to expected future the projected investment cashflow.
performance of the pension scheme assets, future bond yields, changes to assumptions about the longevity of the schemes members, and statutory requirements.
Development of High If there were to be a The group makes substantial Unchanged non-casing technologies significant conversion to investments in product More than 85% of the co-extrusion, there could development and manufacturing groups revenue be an adverse effect on the processes to sustain competitive is derived from the sales of casings and profits advantage.
manufacture and of the groups operations.
Where there have been sale of edible collagen conversions to co-extrusion casings, primarily in the past, the group has often for sausages.
For been successful in obtaining many years, several the business to supply the manufacturers of collagen gel required for such machinery used in applications, and continues the food industry have to be a world leader in this been promoting cospecialist category.
extrusion systems for sausages which do not require casings.
Constitutional change Low The Scottish referendum The situation is uncertain New A referendum is planned could result in an and is being monitored.
on Scottish Independence independent Scotland in 2014.
One political party outside of the European is promising a referendum Union.
The proposed 2017 on the UKs continued referendum could result in membership of the the UK exiting the European European Union in 2017 Union.
Devro has two if they win the 2015 UK factories in Scotland General Election.
Either with significant trading links could result in significant to Europe.
regulatory relationships beyond Europe are in many cases facilitated by EU membership.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31
