Disposals Consideration Date disposed of million Location Status Nuvo and 22 Disposal of the group's 71.25% equity stake in the Nuvo brand and Marquis 5 June 2013 United States 20% equity stake in the 22 Marquis brand Tanzania Breweries 18 January 2012 47 Tanzania Disposal of 20% equity in Tanzania Breweries Ltd Years ended 30 June 2011 United States Wine brands and 2012 25 and France Disposal of a number of non-strategic wine businesses Gilbeys distribution 31 August 2010 7 Ireland Disposal of Gilbeys wine distribution and wholesale drinks business Risks related to the global economy affecting the levels of consumer demand for Risk factors Diageos business may be adversely impacted example, in duty free outlets at airports or in Diageo believes the following to be the on trade premises in affected regions and by unfavourable economic conditions or principal risks and uncertainties facing the political or other developments and risks in the therefore Diageos levels of sales or profitability.
If any of these risks occur, Diageos countries in which it operates A substantial portion of Diageos operations, business, financial condition and performance Diageo may be adversely affected by political, representing more than 40% of Diageos net could suffer and the trading price and liquidity sales for the year ended 30 June 2013, are economic or social developments in any of the of securities could decline.
countries where it has distribution networks, carried out in new high growth markets.
In the ongoing uncertain economic production facilities or marketing companies.
Newhigh growth markets are also generally environment, certain risks may gain more Diageos business is dependent on general exposed to relatively higher risk of liquidity prominence either individually or when taken constraints, inflation, devaluation, price economic conditions in the United States, together.
For example, demand for beverage countries that form the European Union and volatility, currency convertibility and sovereign alcohol products, in particular luxury or super other important markets.
If the economy in any default.
Due to Diageos specific exposures, any premium products, may decrease with a of these markets does not recover as forecast, or all of the aforementioned factors may affect reduction in consumer spending levels.
Costs or if there is a significant deterioration in the Diageo disproportionately or in a different of operations may increase if inflation were to economic conditions in any of Diageos manner as compared to its competitors.
become prevalent, or upon an increase in the important markets, including any resulting Part of Diageos growth strategy includes costs of raw materials.
These conditions may social unrest, reduction in consumer expanding its business in certain countries also lead to intensified competition for market confidence and spending levels, customer where consumer spending in general, and share, with potentially adverse effects on destocking, the failure of customer, supplier or spending on Diageos products in particular, volume and prices.
The financial and economic financial counterparties or a reduction in the has not historically been as great but where situation may have a negative impact on third availability of, or an increase in the cost of there are strong prospects for growth.
There parties with whom Diageo does, or may do, financing to, Diageo, it could have a material is no guarantee that this strategy will be business.
Any of these factors may affect the adverse effect on Diageos business and successful and some of these markets groups performance, financial condition performance.
In particular, the ongoing represent a higher risk in terms of their and liquidity.
Diageo has taken and may take changing regulatory environments and sovereign debt crisis in certain countries in further steps to manage its business through Europe has increased concerns that, were one higher degree of uncertainty over levels of this challenging economic environment and to or more countries to leave the euro, Diageos consumer spending.
position its business to benefit from economic investment in any of the countries concerned recovery as and when that may occur in the Risks related to the industry could be impaired and may be subject to markets in which Diageo operates, but there redenomination and other risks going forward.
Demand for Diageos products may be can be no assurance that the steps taken will This crisis, as well as other economic events, adversely affected by many factors, including have the intended results.
may lead to reduced economic growth and, in changes in consumer preferences and tastes Diageos ability to fund its long term and adverse impacts of a declining economy turn, reduced demand for Diageos products, strategies may be adversely affected if there in Europe and other markets in which Diageo Diageos collection of brands includes some isan extended period of constraint in the operates.
This could have a material adverse of the worlds leading beverage alcohol capital markets, particularly the debt markets, effect on Diageos business.
brands as well as brands of local prominence.
at the same time that cash flows from Maintaining Diageos competitive position Diageos operations are also subject to a Diageosbusiness are under pressure.
variety of other risks and uncertainties related depends on its continued ability to offer Suchdevelopments may adversely affect to trading in numerous foreign countries, products that have a strong appeal to shareholder returns or share price.
Additionally, including political or economic upheaval and consumers.
Consumer preferences may shift continued volatility in exchange rates used to due to a variety of factors including changes in the imposition of any import, investment or translate foreign currencies into pounds currency restrictions, including tariffs and demographic and social trends, public health sterling may have a significant impact on import quotas or any restrictions on the regulations, changes in travel, vacation or Diageos reported results.
Changes in the repatriation of earnings and capital.
Political leisure activity patterns, weather effects and a trustees valuations of the assets and liabilities downturn in economic conditions, which may and or social unrest, potential health issues, of Diageos pension plans may also increase natural disasters and terrorist threats and or reduce consumers willingness to purchase pension funding requirements.
acts may also occur in various places around premium branded products.
Continued the world, which will have an impact on trade, economic pressures could also lead to consumers selecting products at lower price tourism and travel.
Many of these risks are heightened, or occur more frequently, in new points, whether Diageos or those of its high growth markets.
These disruptions can competitors, which may have an adverse effect affect Diageos ability to import or export on Diageos profitability.
The competitive position of Diageos brands could also be products and to repatriate funds, as well as Business description 39 affected adversely by any failure to achieve global temperatures, weather patterns and the is sold which directly or indirectly limit the sales frequency and severity of extreme weather consistent, reliable quality in the product or of Diageo products.
in service levels to customers.
In the event that such Regulatory authorities under whose laws In addition, the social acceptability of climate change has a negative effect on Diageo operates may also have enforcement Diageos products may decline due to public agricultural productivity, Diageo may be power that can subject the group to actions subject to decreased availability or increased concerns about alcohol consumption.
These such as product recall, seizure of products concerns could also result in regulatory action, pricing for certain raw materials that are or other sanctions which could have an litigation or customer complaints against necessary for Diageos products, such as sugar, adverse effect on Diageo sales or damage its companies in the industry and may have an cereals, hops, agave and grapes.
Any changes to the regulatory main ingredient in substantially all of Diageos adverse effect on Diageos profitability.
environment in which Diageo operates could Growth in Diageos business has products and it is also a limited resource in cause Diageo to incur material additional costs benefited from both the launch of new many parts of the world.
As demand for water or liabilities, which could adversely affect products and the creation of brand extensions continues to increase, and as water becomes Diageos performance.
scarcer and the quality of available water and product innovation remains a significant Beverage alcohol products are also element of Diageos growth plans.
The launch deteriorates, Diageo may be affected by subject to national excise, import duty and and ongoing success of new products is increasing production costs or capacity other duties in most countries around the inherently uncertain, especially as to their constraints, which could adversely affect world.
An increase in any such duties could Diageos operations and profitability.
The failure to launch have a significant adverse effect on Diageos successfully a new product can give rise to sales revenue or margin, both through inventory write-offs and other costs and can An increase in the cost of raw materials or reducing overall consumption and by affect consumer perception and growth of an energy could affect Diageos profitability encouraging consumers to switch to existing brand.
There can be no assurance of The components that Diageo uses for the lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.
Diageos continuing ability to develop and production of its beverage products are largely Diageos reported after tax income is launch successful new products or variants of commodities that are subject to price volatility calculated based on extensive tax and existing products or of the profitable lifespan caused by changes in global supply and accounting requirements in each of its relevant of newly or recently developed products.
demand, weather conditions, agricultural jurisdictions of operation.
Changes in tax law uncertainty and or governmental controls.
including tax rates, accounting policies and Diageo is subject to litigation directed at the Commodity price changes may result in accounting standards could materially reduce unexpected increases in the cost of raw beverage alcohol industry and other litigation Diageos reported after tax income.
Companies in the beverage alcohol industry materials, glass bottles, flavours and other are, from time to time, exposed to class packaging materials and Diageos beverage Diageo is subject to increasing costs of actionor other litigation relating to alcohol products.
Diageo may also be adversely monitoring and maintaining compliance affected by shortages of such materials or by advertising, product liability, alcohol abuse with anti-corruption laws: and a breach of problems or health consequences from increases in energy costs resulting in higher such laws or of Diageos related internal the misuse of alcohol.
Diageo may also be transportation, freight and other operating policies may have a material adverse effect subject to litigation arising from legacy and costs.
Diageo may not be able to increase on its business its prices to offset these increased costs discontinued activities, as well as other Certain countries in which Diageo operates litigation in the ordinary course of its without suffering reduced volume, sales are reported to have high levels of corruption.
Diageo is further subject to the and operating profit.
There is increasing scrutiny and enforcement risk of litigation by tax, customs and other by regulators in many jurisdictions of Risks related to regulation regulatory authorities, including with respect anti-bribery laws including the US Foreign to the methodology for assessing importation Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act.
value, transfer pricing or compliance matters.
and regulatory environment could increase This oversight has been enhanced by Changes in the political and economic climate Diageos costs and liabilities or limit its applicable regulations in the United States, business activities have resulted in an increased focus on tax which offer substantial financial rewards to collection in recent years and tax authorities Diageos operations are subject to extensive whistleblowers for reporting information are showing an increased appetite to regulatory requirements relating to that leads to monetary fines.
challenge the methodology used by production, distribution, importation, While Diageo has implemented and marketing, advertising, promotion, sales, multinational enterprises, even where it is maintains internal practices, procedures and compliant with international best practice pricing, labelling, packaging, product liability, controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines.
Any such litigation may result labour, pensions, antitrust, compliance and anti-bribery legislation and routinely conducts indamages, penalties or fines as well as control systems, and environmental issues.
investigations, either at its own initiative or Changes in laws, regulations or governmental reputational damage to Diageo or its brands, in response to requests from regulators in and as a result, Diageos business could be or regulatory policies and or practices could connection with compliance with such materially adversely affected.
cause Diageo to incur material additional internal controls, there is no guarantee that costs or liabilities that could adversely affect its such procedures will be effective in preventing business.
In particular, governmental bodies Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market compliance failures at Diageo.
measures to address climate change, may in countries where Diageo operates may Any investigations and lawsuits, negatively affect Diageos business or impose new labelling, product or production regardless of the ultimate outcome of the operations, and water scarcity or poor water requirements, limitations on the marketing, proceeding, are time consuming and advertising and or promotion activities used quality could negatively impact Diageos expensive and can divert the time and effort of production costs and capacity to market beverage alcohol, restrictions on our personnel, including senior management, There is a growing concern that carbon dioxide retail outlets, restrictions on importation from our business.
Adverse publicity, and other so-called greenhouse gases in the and distribution or other restrictions on the governmental scrutiny and legal and locations or occasions where beverage alcohol atmosphere may have an adverse impact on 40 Diageo Annual Report 2013 enforcement proceedings can also have a Diageo may not be able to derive the expected contamination or damage.
Asignificant product liability judgement or a widespread negative impact on our reputation and on the benefits from its strategy to focus on premium drinks or from its acquisitions or cost saving product recall may negatively impact sales and morale and performance of our employees.
To the extent that violations of Diageos and restructuring programmes designed to profitability of the affected brand or all Diageo policies and procedures are found, possible enhance earnings brands for a period of time depending on product availability, competitive reaction and regulatory sanctions and fines and other Diageos strategy is to focus on premium drinks and to grow its business through organic sales, consumer attitudes.
Even if a product liability consequences may also be material.
operating profit growth and the acquisition claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, any Risks related to Diageos business of premium drinks brands that add value for resulting negative publicity could adversely affect Diageos reputation with existing and The value of Diageos brands and its net sales shareholders.
There can be no assurance that Diageos strategic focus on premium drinks potential customers and its corporate and may be negatively affected by its failure to maintain its brand image and corporate willresult in opportunities for growth and brand image.
Additionally, third parties may sell products which are either counterfeit versions The value of Diageos brands and its It is possible that the pursuit of this strategic focus on premium drinks could of Diageo brands or inferior brands that look profitability depends heavily on its ability to maintain its brand image and corporate giverise to further business combinations, like Diageo brands, and consumers of Diageo reputation.
Adverse publicity, whether or not acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and or brands could confuse Diageo products with them.
A bad consumer experience with such justified, may tarnish Diageos reputation and partnerships including any associated financing or the assumption of actual or a product could cause them to refrain from cause consumers to choose products offered by its competitors.
Such adverse publicity potential liabilities, depending on the purchasing Diageo brands in the future and could arise as a result of a perceived failure transaction contemplated.
There can be in turn could impair brand equity, adversely affecting Diageos business.
by Diageo to make adequate positive social noassurance that any transaction will be contributions, including in relation to the completed or that any such transaction would level of taxes paid by Diageo, or by the failures deliver the anticipated benefits, cost savings Diageos operating results may be adversely of internal controls or compliance breaches or synergies.
The success of any transaction affected by increased costs or shortages oftalent leading to a breach of Diageos Code of will depend in part on Diageos ability to Business Conduct, its other key policies or of successfully integrate new businesses with Diageos operating results could be adversely the laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in Diageos existing operations and realise the affected by labour or skill shortages or which it operates.
increased labour costs due to increased Similarly, there can be no assurance that competition for employees, higher employee Diageo also maintains an online presence as part of its business operations.
Diageo's the cost saving or restructuring programmes turnover or increased employee benefit reputation may suffer if it is perceived to fail implemented by Diageo in order to improve costs.
Diageos success is dependent on the capability of its employees.
There is no to appropriately restrict access to its online efficiencies and deliver cost savings will deliver the expected benefits.
Diageo continues to guarantee that Diageo will continue to be able content or if it breaches any marketing regulation, code or policy.
In addition, the undertake change programmes designed to to recruit, retain and develop the capabilities proliferation of new methods of mass improve the effectiveness and efficiency of that it requires to deliver its strategy, for example in relation to sales, marketing and communication facilitated by the internet end-to-end operations, including changes to organisational structures, business processes innovation capability within markets or in makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect Diageos brand and business systems.
There may also be itssenior management.
The loss of senior image and reputation, which may in turn disruption caused to business processes as management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, attract and retain qualified affect Diageos profitability.
aresult of such change which could impact Diageo operations and lead to adverse personnel in the future could make it difficult Diageo faces competition that may reduce its customer or consumer reaction.
to manage the business and could adversely market share andmargins affect Diageos operations and financial results.
Diageo faces substantial competition from Contamination, counterfeiting or other events could harm the integrity of customer support Diageos operating results may be adversely several international companies as well as local and regional companies in the countries for Diageos brands and adversely affect the affected by disruption to production facilities, in which it operates and competes with drinks sales of those brands business service centres or information systems companies across a wide range of consumer The success of Diageos brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of Diageo would be affected if there was a drinking occasions.
Within a number of categories, industry consolidation or those brands, and contamination, whether catastrophic failure of its major production realignment is still possible.
Consolidation is arising accidentally, or through deliberate third facilities or business service centres.
Diageo operates production facilities around the also taking place among Diageos customers party action, or other events that harm the integrity of or consumer support for those world.
If there was a technical failure in in many countries and increased competition by competitors or customers could lead to brands, could adversely affect their sales.
Diageoproduction facilities, or fire or explosion downward pressure on prices and or a decline Diageo purchases most of the raw materials for at one of Diageos production facilities, it could result in damage to the facilities, plant or in Diageos market share in any of these the production and packaging of its products from third party producers or on the open equipment, their surroundings and or the local categories, adversely affecting Diageos results and growth potential.
Diageo may be subject to liability if environment.
Such an event could lead to a contaminants in those raw materials or defects loss in production capacity, or could result in regulatory action, legal liability or damage to in the distillation, fermentation or bottling process lead to low beverage quality or illness Diageos reputation.
among, or injury to, Diageos consumers.
Diageo has a substantial inventory of Diageo may recall products in the event of aged product categories, principally Scotch whisky and Canadian whisky, which may Business description 41 mature over periods of up to 30 years or more.
fund assets or changes in discount rates or Diageo may not be able to protect its inflation rates, Diageo may need to make The maturing inventory is stored primarily in intellectual property rights Scotland, and the loss through contamination, significant contributions to the pension funds Given the importance of brand recognition to fire or other natural disaster of all or a portion in the future.
Furthermore, if the market values its business, Diageo has invested considerable ofthe stock of any one of those aged product of the assets held by Diageos pension funds effort in protecting its intellectual property decline, or if the valuations of those assets by categories could result in a significant rights, including trademark registration and reduction in supply of those products, and the pension trustees decline, pension domain names.
Diageos patents cover some consequently, Diageo would not be able to expenses may increase which, as a result, could of its process technology, including some meet consumer demand for those products materially adversely affect Diageos financial aspects of its bottle marking technology.
There is no assurance that interest as it arises.
There can be no assurance that Diageo also uses security measures and insurance proceeds would cover the rates or inflation rates will remain constant or agreements to protect its confidential replacement value of Diageos maturing that pension fund assets can earn the assumed information and trade secrets.
However, inventory or other assets, were such assets to rate of return annually: Diageos actual Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it has experience may be significantly more negative be lost due to contamination, fire or natural taken will be sufficient or that third parties disasters or destruction resulting from than the assumptions used.
will not infringe on or misappropriate its negligence or the acts of third parties.
In Diageo may be adversely affected by intellectual property rights in its brands or addition, there is an inherent risk of forecasting fluctuations in exchange rates.
Moreover, some of the countries in redenomination of the euro or its constituent error in determining the quantity of maturing which Diageo operates offer less intellectual stock to lay down in a given year for future parts could materially adversely affect property protection than Europe or North consumption.
A forecasting error could lead Diageo.
The results of operations of Diageo America.
Given the attractiveness of Diageos to Diageo being unable to meet future are accounted for in pounds sterling.
brands to consumers, it is not uncommon for Approximately 37% of sales in the year ended demand or lead to a future surplus of inventory counterfeit products to be manufactured and and consequent write down in value of 30 June 2013 were in US dollars, approximately traded.
Diageo cannot be certain that the steps maturing stocks.
12% were in euros and approximately 10% it takes to assist the authorities to prevent, Any failure of information systems or were in sterling.
Movements in exchange detect and eliminate counterfeit products rates used to translate foreign currencies into Diageos data infrastructure could adversely willbe effective in preventing material loss impact Diageos ability to operate.
As with all pounds sterling may have a significant impact ofprofits or erosion of brand equity resulting large systems, Diageos information systems on Diageos reported results of operations from lower quality or even dangerous from year to year.
could be penetrated by outside parties intent counterfeit product reaching the market.
on extracting information, corrupting Diageo may also be adversely impacted If Diageo is unable to protect its intellectual information or disrupting business processes.
by fluctuations in interest rates, mainly through property rights against infringement or Such unauthorised access could disrupt an increased interest expense.
To partly misappropriation, this could materially harm delayany adverse impact from interest rate Diageos business and or lead to loss of its future financial results and ability to develop assets or to outside parties having access to movements, the groups policy is to maintain its business.
confidential information, including privileged fixed rate borrowings within a certain data or strategic information of Diageo and percentage of forecast net borrowings, and the Risks related to Diageos securities overall net borrowings portfolio is managed its employees, customers and consumers, It may be difficult to effect service of US process or to making such information public in a according to a duration measure.
See note 19 and enforce US legal process against the manner that harms Diageos reputation.
to the consolidated financial statements.
directors of Diageo The concentration of processes in business Diageo is a public limited company Diageos operations may be adversely service centres also means that any sustained incorporated under the laws of England and disruption to the facility or issue impacting affected by failure to maintain or renegotiate Wales.
The majority of Diageos directors and the reliability of the information systems used distribution, supply, manufacturing or licence officers, and some of the experts named in could impact a large portion of Diageos agreements on favourable terms this document, reside outside of the United Diageos business has a number of distribution, business operations and in some States, principally in the United Kingdom.
circumstances, could result in property supply, manufacturing or licence agreements A substantial portion of Diageos assets, and damage, breaches of regulations, litigation, for brands owned by it or by other companies.
the assets of such persons, are located outside legal liabilities and reparation costs.
These agreements vary depending on the of the United States.
Therefore, it may not be particular brand, but tend to be for a fixed possible to effect service of process within the Diageos operations and financial results number of years.
There can be no assurance United States upon Diageo or these persons may be adversely affected by movements that Diageo will be able to renegotiate its rights in order to enforce judgements of US courts in the value of its pension funds, fluctuations on favourable terms when these agreements against Diageo or these persons based on expire or that they will not be terminated.
in exchange rates and fluctuations in the civil liability provisions of the US federal interest rates Failure to renew these agreements on securities laws.
There is doubt as to the Diageo has significant pension funds.
These favourable terms could have an adverse enforceability in England and Wales, in original funds may be affected by, among other things, impact on Diageos sales and operating profit.
actions or in actions for enforcement of In addition, Diageos sales and operating profit the performance of assets owned by these judgements of US courts, of civil liabilities solely plans, the underlying actuarial assumptions may be adversely affected by any disputes with based on the US federal securities laws.
used to calculate the surplus or deficit in distributors of its products or with suppliers of theplans, in particular the discount rate and raw materials.
long term inflation rates used to calculate theliabilities of the pension funds, and any changes in applicable laws and regulations.
Ifthere are significant declines in financial markets and or deterioration in the value of 42 Diageo Annual Report 2013
