Dignity plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties How we align risks to strategy Our principal risks and uncertainties focus on Effective risk management matters that could have a direct impact on our strategy and key priorities.
Our approach to risk management Risk process This section highlights the principal risks affecting the Group, Our risk process is designed to identify, evaluate and manage together with the key mitigating activities in place to manage our operational and financial risks.
Risk governance The Group manages the operational and financial risks The full risk register is considered and readopted every described through a combination of regular Board reports six months by the Audit Committee.
and also monthly and weekly management information that is reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Risk management process Overall Board responsibilities Risks and impact identied Risks mapped to controls currently in place Residual risks prioritised for mitigation Confirmed with the Board Existing control enforced and tested Controls identied Remedial action plans implemented Suggested action plans agreed Board member accountable Options for controls identified and costed Plans approved by the Board Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 33 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Operational risk management Risk description Mitigating activities Change Significant reduction in There is a risk that the number of deaths in any The profile of deaths has historically followed the death rate year significantly reduces.
This would have a a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, direct result on the financial performance of giving the Group the ability to plan its business both the funeral and crematoria divisions.
Nationwide adverse Nationwide adverse publicity could result in a This risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate publicity significant reduction in the number of funerals policies and procedures are in place, which are or cremations performed in any financial period.
designed to ensure excellent client service.
This would have a direct result on the financial These policies and procedures retain flexibility performance of that division.
for the business to serve families in accordance with local traditions.
Ability to increase average Operating profit growth is in part attributable The Group believes that its focus on excellent revenues per funeral or to the Groups ability to increase the average client service helps to mitigate this risk.
cremation revenue per funeral or cremation.
There can be no guarantee that future average revenues per funeral or cremation will be maintained or increased.
Significant reduction in It is possible that other external factors, such The Group believes that this risk is mitigated market share as new competitors, could result in a significant for funeral operations by reputation and reduction in market share within funeral or recommendation being a key driver to the crematoria operations.
This would have a direct choice of funeral director being used and for result on the financial performance of those crematoria operations is mitigated by difficulties divisions.
associated with building new crematoria.
Demographic shifts There can be no assurance that demographic In such situations, Dignity would seek to follow in population shifts in population will not lead to a reduced the population shift.
demand for funeral services in areas where Dignity operates.
Competition The UK funeral services market and crematoria There are barriers to entry in the funerals market is currently very fragmented.
services market due to the importance of established local reputation and in the There can be no assurance that there will not crematoria market due to the need to obtain be further consolidation in the industry or that planning approval for new crematoria and the increased competition in the industry, whether cost of developing new crematoria.
in the form of intensified price competition, service competition, over capacity or otherwise, would not lead to an erosion of the Groups market share, average revenues or costs and consequently a reduction in its profitability.
Taxes There can be no assurance that changes will not There are currently specific exemptions be made to UK taxes, such as VAT.
VAT is not under European legislation for the UK on the currently chargeable on the majority of the VAT treatment of funerals.
Any change would Groups services.
The introduction of such a tax apply to the industry as a whole and not could therefore significantly increase the cost to just the Group.
clients of the Groups services.
Regulation of pre-arranged Pre-arranged funeral plans are not a regulated Any changes would apply to the industry as funeral plans product, but are subject to a specific financial a whole and not just the Group.
Changes to the basis of any regulation could affect the Groups opportunity to sell pre-arranged funeral plans in the future.
Financial risk management Risk description Mitigating activities Change Financial Covenant under The Groups Secured Notes requires EBITDA The nature of the Groups debt means that the Secured Notes to total debt service to be above 1.5 times.
the denominator is now fixed unless further If this financial covenant is not achieved, then Secured Notes are issued in the future.
this may lead to an Event of Default under This means that the covenant headroom the terms of the Secured Notes, which could will change proportionately with changes result in the Security Trustee taking control in EBITDA.
of the securitisation group on behalf of the Secured Noteholders.
In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same Key: test in order to be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation group to Dignity plc.
Risk exposure increased If this stricter test is not achieved, then the Groups ability to pay dividends would be Risk exposure decreased impacted.
No significant change The Groups releveraging in the period reduces headroom against these covenants.
An assessment of the Groups exposures to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
