Diploma PLC 32 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the Finally, plans and processes are established which are Groups annual planning cycle and market specific risks designed to control each risk and minimise its potential are evaluated as part of the annual budgeting process.
The risk assessments from each of the operating businesses are reviewed with the Executive Directors and Each operating business is required each year to identify a consolidated risk assessment is reviewed by the Board.
and document the significant strategic, operational and financial and accounting risks facing the business.
For each The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently significant risk, a number of scenarios are mapped out and judged to have the largest potential impact on the Groups an assessment is made of the likelihood and impact of each long term performance are set out below.
There have been risk scenario.
no significant changes to these risks and uncertainties, or their potential impact on the Group, since last year.
Risk: Strategic Downturn in major markets Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses The businesses offer specialised products and services: operate can have a significant impact on performance.
The this offers a degree of protection against customers effects will either be seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, quickly switching business to achieve a better price.
due to reduced or delayed demand for products and services, A high proportion of the Groups revenues comprise or margin pressures due to increased competition.
consumable products which are purchased as part of customers operating expenditure, rather than through A number of characteristics of the Groups businesses capital budgets.
moderate the impact of economic and business cycles on In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance and refurbishment applications, rather than original the Group as a whole: equipment manufacture.
The Groups businesses operate in three different sectors with different cyclical characteristics and across a number ofgeographic markets.
mitigation The businesses identify key market drivers and monitor the demand.
Changes to cost levels and inventories can then be trends and forecasts, as well as maintaining close relationships made in a measured way to mitigate the effects.
with key customers who may give an early warning of slowing loss of key supplier s For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the Currently no single supplier represents more than 15% of business if a major supplier decides to cancel a distribution Group revenue and only four single suppliers represent more agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a company which than 2% each of Group revenue.
has its own distribution channels in the relevant market.
There is also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
many years and a strong degree of interdependence has been established.
The average length of the principal supplier In times of rapid economic expansion in activity, such as after a relationships in each ofthe sectors is over ten years.
global recession, there is also a risk that the lead times to supply key product can become very long.
The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the volume of activity generally ensures continuity of supply, whenthere is shortage of product.
mitigation Actions to mitigate the risks include: Regular review of inventory levels.
Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed Bundling and kitting of products and provision of added with suppliers with change of control clauses, where value services.
possible, included in contracts for protection or Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of compensation in the event of acquisition.
Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with individuals at many levels of the supplier organisation, together with regular review meetings and adherence to contractual terms.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 33 Risk: Strategic loss of major customer s The loss of one or more major customers can be a material The nature of the Groups businesses is such that there is not risk.
ahigh level of dependence on any individual customers and no single customer represents more than 5% of Sector revenue or more than 2% of Group revenue.
mitigation Specific large customers are important to individual operating In addition to providing high levels of customer service, close businesses and a high level of effort is invested in ensuring that integration is established where possible with customers these customers are retained and encouraged not to switch to systems and processes.
product liability There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our failin service, which could lead to a claim under product business as a party to the claim and the business may be liability.
The businesses, in their Terms and Conditions of sale exposed to legal costs and potential damages if the claim with customers, will typically mirror the Terms and Conditions succeeds and the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for of purchase from the suppliers.
In this way the liability can be whatever reason.
Product liability insurance can be limited in limited and subrogated to the supplier.
terms of its scope of insurable events, such as product recall.
mitigation Technically qualified personnel and control systems are The Groups businesses may also elect not to supply inplace to ensure products meet quality requirements.
The products if they are not fully confident that the products Groups businesses are required to undertake Product Risk will meet the demands of the operating environment.
assessments and Supplier Quality Assurance assessments.
TheGroup has also established Group-wide product liability insurance which provides worldwide umbrella insurance coverof 20m in allSectors.
loss of key personnel The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing As set out on page 36, the average length of service for all management teams in the operating businesses, committed personnel in the Group is over five years.
tothe success of their respective businesses.
As a result, the loss of key personnel can have a significant impact on performance, at least for atime.
mitigation Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-compete Establishing management development programmes clauses can mitigate the risk in the short term.
However, more to ensure abroad base of talented managers.
successful initiatives focus on ensuring a challenging work Offering a balanced and competitive compensation environment with appropriate reward systems.
The Group package with a combination of salary, annual bonus and places very high importance on planning the development, long term cash incentive plans targeted at the individual motivation and reward for key managers in the operating business level.
businesses including: Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources Ensuring a challenging working environment where and strategic support for managers topursue ambitious managers feel they have control over, and responsibility growth plans.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 34 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk: operational major damage to premises The Groups businesses mostly operate from combined office However, the Group has not suffered any major damage warehouse facilities which are dedicated to each business and topremises in recent years and in Clearwater, Florida there not shared with other Group businesses.
hasbeen no significant hurricane activity for at least the last fiveyears.
Major damage to the facilities from fire, malicious damage or natural disaster would impact a business for a period until the damage is repaired or alternative facilities have been established.
mitigation The business where the risk is greatest is Hercules in The other businesses have also developed plans to prevent Clearwater, Florida which is most at risk from an environmental incidents, including fire and security alarms and regular fire disaster caused by a hurricane or tornado.
Insurance policies are also in place including property, structure has been designed to withstand 150mph winds, contents and business interruption cover which would electricity generators have been installed on site and a specific mitigate the financial impact.
disaster plan has been drawn up and is regularly reviewed.
However, the priority in such an event is to become fully Contingency plans include: operational as quickly as possible so as to minimise disruption Backup power generators.
Plans to ensure a quick and orderly recovery Materials on hand to secure the facility.
have been developed by the businesses and areperiodically Communications rerouted to other branches or interim reviewed.
IT recovery plan using backup server in separate location.
Regular building inspection and weather monitoring.
Plans to drop-ship product from suppliers direct tocustomers.
loss of information Technology iT systems Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their trading and other records, would be more damaging to the success is built on high levels of customer service and quick businesses than major physical damage to facilities.
A complete failure of IT systems, with the loss of mitigation Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group Backup servers identified and communication reroute and contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses.
The recovery plans differ by individual business, but will include Service contracts with IT providers with access to some or all of the following elements: replacement servers.
Full data backups as a matter of routine are automatically Uninterruptible power sources and backup generators taken on a regular basis each week and stored online.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 35 Risk: Financial and accounting The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial and The treasury team identifies, evaluates and where appropriate, accounting risks, including foreign currency, liquidity, interest hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups rate and credit.
The policies for managing these financial risks, operating businesses.
The treasury team does not undertake as well as the management of capital risks, are set out in note speculative foreign exchange dealings for which there is no 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
financial and accounting risks are summarised below.
The Groups overall management of the financial risks is carried out The principal accounting risk is that of inventory by a central treasury team under policies and procedures obsolescence which is managed by the operating business.
which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
Foreign currency risk Translational exposure Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency Currency exposures also arise from the net assets of the rates will affect the Groups results.
The Group operates Groups foreign operations.
At 30 September 2013, the internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising Groups non-UK sterling trading capital employed in overseas from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the businesses was 125.7m 2012: 131.9m, which represented US dollar, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the 79% of the Groups trading capital employed.
The net assets of the Groups operations outside the UK that a strengthening of UK sterling of 10% against all the are also exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
non-UK sterling capital employed would reduce shareholders funds by 12.1m.
During the year ended 30 September 2013, ca.
75% of the Groups revenue and adjusted operating profits were earned in Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of currencies other than UK sterling.
In comparison to the prior overseas earnings and of year end exchange rates, used in year, the net effect of currency translation was to increase thetranslation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal revenue by 1.8m and increase adjusted operating profit by currencies used by the Group, are shown in note 28 to the 0.3m.
It is estimated that a strengthening of UK sterling by consolidated financial statements.
10% against all the currencies in which the Group does business, would reduce adjusted operating profit before tax by approximately 4.2m 8%, due to currency translation.
mitigation The Group does not hedge translational exposure.
Foreign currency Transactional exposure The Groups UK businesses are exposed to foreign currency businesses are also exposed to a similar risk asthe majority of risk on those purchases that are denominated in a currency their purchases are denominated in USdollars and Euros.
The other than their local currency, principally US dollars, Euro Groups US businesses do not have any material foreign andJapanese yen.
The Groups Canadian andAustralian currency transactional risk.
mitigation The Groups businesses may hedge up to 80% of forecast The Group classifies its forward foreign exchange contracts, being a maximum of eighteen months foreign currency which hedge forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges and exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts.
states them at fair value.
inventory obsolescence Working capital management is critical to success in The charge against operating profit in respect of old or specialised industrial business as this has a major impact on surplus inventory is ca.
1.0m p. a. but inventories are cash flow.
The principal risk to working capital is in inventory generally not subject to technological obsolescence.
mitigation Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by active Where necessary, a provision is made to cover both excess management of inventory levels based on sales forecasts and inventory and potential obsolescence.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
