Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives The Group recognises that taking risks is an inherent part of doing business and that competitive advantage can be gained through effectively managing risk.
We continue to develop our risk management processes, integrating risk management into business decision making.
The principal risks and uncertainties together with their impacts are set out in the tables below along with an illustration of what is being done to mitigate them.
Context, Specific Risks and Potential Impacts Principal Risk Context Specific Risks Potential Impacts 1.
Economic Ongoing uncertainty in The UK economic recovery is delayed with increased Greater uncertainty environment the European and global volatility through 2013 and beyond Increased losses economies, with increased Greece exits from the euro, leading to a step change austerity measures to reduce Deteriorating cash flow deterioration of the Greek economy and challenging deficits and borrowing the sustainability of our business Instability of the Italian and Greek governments with ongoing austerity measures results in prolonged weakness in these economies 2.
Changing Constantly evolving We do not respond quickly enough to capitalise Reduced revenue and technology technology is driving changes on changes in consumer demand for technology, profitability & consumer in consumer behaviour e. g. growth of tablets and 3D TV preferences We fail to flex our offering to respond to changes in the nature of revenue streams, e. g. the move to digital downloads We fail to respond to changes in consumer preferences as a result of converging technologies, e. g. the role of the mobile ecosystem 3.
Competition The competitive landscape We fail to respond with a business model that enables Reduced market share remains challenging with an us to compete effectively against a broad range of Lower margins array of competitor formats competitors, including from specialist electrical computing retailers, generalist merchandisers and pure players 4.
Employee We believe our colleagues We fail to attract, develop and retain the quality and Lower longer term effectiveness are a key differentiator in profitability depth of necessary leadership and management delivering what our customers talent for our business Reduced customer want satisfaction We fail to develop our staff to deliver the service excellence to support our customer promise Dixons Retail plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives continued Example Mitigating Actions and Related Strategic Priorities Principal Risk Example Mitigating Actions Related Strategic Priorities 1.
Economic Strategy and business planning which takes into account varying economic scenarios Sustainable business environment model Ongoing monitoring by finance and senior executives Contingency management planning for economies most at risk Improved flexibility of cost base to improve responses to changes in economic circumstances, e. g. ongoing review and optimisation of store footprint, with closures or relocations as appropriate Ongoing cost reduction initiatives delivering a low cost operating model Profit and cash flow scenario planning to help the Group manage the impact of a range of possible scenarios Reducing exposure to currency devaluation 2.
Changing Use of extensive customer insight to understand what our customers want Leader in our markets technology Increasing investment in digital content services Group leverage & consumer preferences Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination for the latest technology, e. g. 3D Smart Ultra High Definition TVs and tablets Extending mobile phone proposition across the Group and strengthening in key markets Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range across all price points, including own brand products 3.
Competition Renewal and Transformation plan continues to drive improvements in our stores, Leader in our markets cost structure and service proposition Group leverage Continuing development of strong multi-channel propositions to produce a seamless customer experience Ensuring our prices offer good value, including use of a customer price index Continuing to take money out of our cost base and leveraging Group-wide benefits where opportunities arise Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers 4.
Employee Group-wide standardised performance management Leader in our markets effectiveness Store structures which provide a clear career path for colleagues Maintain Group talent and succession plans with improved bench strength Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent Bonus plans, which include components relating to business performance and, for levels below senior management, individual performance Continued improvements in the quality of training courses and development programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial and technical Dixons Retail plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives continued Context, Specific Risks and Potential Impacts Principal Risk Context Specific Risks Potential Impacts 5.
Finance & Difficult economic We fail to maintain the support of our credit insurers Reduced revenue and treasury circumstances increase profit We fail to maintain and develop processes and our focus on maintaining Deteriorating cash flow controls to support changes in our business activities and improving our financial position 6.
Technology Complex projects planned for A key system becomes unavailable for a period of time Lost revenue and infrastructure systems changes over the margin Our IT systems do not support changing business change medium term with increasing needs dependence on on-line systems The planned IT change programme does not deliver the necessary benefits due to programme failure or not having the right programme to the required timescales 7.
Legislative, Multi-national business with Non-compliance with laws and regulations or adverse Damage to our regulatory & a complex legislative and rulings by regulatory authorities reputation contractual regulatory environment, Financial penalties Disputes with third parties and or business partners compliance e. g. competition, consumer rights, intellectual property, Need to adapt business contractual obligations, health activities and or and safety, customer data processes Dixons Retail plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving the Groups Objectives continued Example Mitigating Actions and Related Strategic Priorities Principal Risk Example Mitigating Actions Related Strategic Priorities 5.
Finance & Maintain adequate headroom in revolving credit facility Sustainable business treasury model Tight balance sheet management with independent reviews by Group Finance Strong cash forecasting, management and monitoring Rigorous pre and post investment appraisal processes Proactive engagement with suppliers and credit insurers Innovations in, and close scrutiny of, working capital together with regular monitoring and review Detailed Group hedging policies, managed centrally and reviewed through a Group Tax and Treasury Committee 6.
Technology Development and implementation of IT strategy to harmonise key systems Leader in our markets infrastructure Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out before updating or Group leverage change introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions Investment in website functionality and user friendliness Implementation of appropriate measures to secure key systems and data against malicious attack Contingency plans are in place and are tested regularly 7.
Legislative, In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and legal reports are submitted Sustainable business regulatory & to the Board model contractual Legal teams manage issues which arise and there is Group oversight of significant compliance matters Group Ethical Conduct Policy supported by annual declaration of compliance by colleagues Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss reputational and regulatory risks and monitor mitigating action Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group credit facilities Contact with regulatory authorities Monitoring changes in legislation regulation Dixons Retail plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Performance Review Overview Key highlights Financial highlights Total underlying Group sales up 4% at 8.21 billion Significant progress made against our three strategic 2011 12 7.91 billion.
Total Group sales, including those from businesses Further improvements to the offer for customers and 2 exited to be exited were 8.44 billion 2011 12 8.19 financial strength of the business for shareholders.
1, 2 3 Group underlying total sales and like for like sales up Group gross margins down 0.7% in the full year driven 4% in the full year.
Like for like sales in the final quarter up 13% in Restructuring and impairment charges of 168.8 million, the UK & Ireland and up 14% in Northern Europe relating mainly to PIXmania and the main non-store UK reflecting strong share gains.
B2B operations following the disposal of Equanet.
1 Underlying pre-tax profit up 15% to 94.5 million 2011 12 Total loss before tax of 115.3 million 2011 12 loss of profit of 82.1 million.
1 118.8 million, after non-underlying items of 209.8 Good progress in UK & Ireland and Northern Europe million, which predominantly comprise the restructuring with profits up 39% and 6% respectively.
Robust performance in Southern Europe in difficult 1 Underlying diluted earnings per share 1.5 pence markets.
Basic loss per share 4.4 pence 2011 12 loss per share of 4.3 pence.
Offset by poor performance in PIXmania.
PIXmania restructured to reduce losses and enable process of putting the business on a firmer strategic footing.
Customer satisfaction measures continue to show strong advocacy in the UK.
Group costs reduced by 45 million as part of the two year 90 million cost reduction initiative.
Very strong cash generation with the Group ending the year with net cash of 42.1 million versus net debt of 104.0 million at the start of the year.
Dixons Retail plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Performance Review Overview continued Underlying sales and profit analysis Underlying sales Underlying profit loss Year 52 weeks Year 52 weeks ended ended Like for ended ended 3 4 30 April 2013 28 April 2012 like 30 April 2013 28 April 2012 Note million million % change % change million million UK & Ireland 5 4,014.5 3,751.3 7% 7% 113.3 81.5 Northern Europe 6 2,876.3 2,619.3 10% 12% 120.5 113.7 Southern Europe 7 965.6 1,048.2 8 % 8 % 24.4 31.3 PIXmania 357.5 491.4 27 % 24 % 31.3 15.2 Central costs 16.9 13.8 Total Group Retail 8,213.9 7,910.2 4% 4% 161.2 134.9 Property losses 25.2 13.6 EBIT 8 136.0 121.3 Underlying net finance costs 41.5 39.2 Group underlying profit before tax 94.5 82.1 Notes 1 Throughout this Annual Report and Accounts, references are made to underlying performance measures.
Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results from businesses exited to be exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, profits losses on sale of investments or businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.
These excluded items are described as non-underlying.
The financial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement and in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
2 Businesses exited to be exited include the operations of PC City Spain, Equanet, W ebhallen, PLS and PIXmania stores which are now closed.
3 Like for like sales are calculated based on underlying store and internet sales using constant exchange rates.
New stores are i ncluded where they have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period.
Closed stores are excluded for any period of closure.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations.
4 Underlying figures for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 have been re-presented to exclude the trading results of businesses exited to be exited for which the decisions were made or executed in 2012 13 and in respect of net finance costs, to exclude net interest in respect of defined benefit pension schemes.
5 UK & Ireland comprises Currys, PC W orld, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, Harrods concession, operations in Ireland, PC World Business and KNOWHOW.
Like for like sales exclude PC World Business.
6 Northern Europe comprises the Elkjp group and Electroworld in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
7 Southern Europe comprises Greece Kotsovolos, Italy Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores, and Turkey Electroworld.
8 Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT equates to underlying operating profit and is defined as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, before deduction of net finance costs and tax.
9 Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension co ntributions, less net finance costs, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure.
Dixons Retail plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Performance Review Overview continued Strategic Priorities 2 Be a leader in each of the markets in which the Group Since introducing our three strategic priorities last year we operates.
have made significant strides in improving the business We have strong market positions in the UK & Ireland, for our customers, our suppliers and our shareholders.
Northern Europe and in Greece.
In each of these A summary of each of our priorities and some of the markets we have seen consolidation amongst milestones we have achieved include: competitors and we see opportunities to improve our competitive position further as we implement the 1 Drive a successful and sustainable business model in initiatives discussed above.
In Italy and Turkey we are exploring ways to improve the strategic positioning of these businesses.
Our customers tell us that they want advice, to experience products and to ensure they are making Earlier in the year we took overall control of the right choices as well as getting value for money.
PIXmania that would enable us to start taking some We believe that our business model offers the best decisive actions including: approach for both customers and suppliers: Agreeing the disposal of W ebhallen for 14 million This year we have invested in improving our multias well as PLS: channel offer in all of our core markets.
This has Restructuring the business closing 19 stores, involved expanding and enriching the ways in which exiting 12 countries, eliminating non-core customers can shop with us and improving the categories and reducing headcount from 1,400 to link between the store experience and the on-line 649 in France and 149 in the Czech Republic: and experience to make the transition as simple and seamless as possible.
We also believe that our Continuing to explore options to put PIXmania on on-line proposition, particularly on mobile devices, a firmer strategic footing.
is one of the best in the market and have radically overhauled the way in which we communicate with 3 Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European customers away from traditional advertising methods.
Across Europe we have won or been shortlisted for We are rolling out KNOWHOW across the Elkjp six prestigious multi-channel awards.
We have continued to deepen and broaden our We have firmly and successfully embedded the Our supplier relationships as a vital component of Experts Love journeys in the UK & Ireland, a sales value in our business model.
This has involved approach developed in our Elkjp business.
developing a shared understanding of the drivers of the economics across the whole value chain Over the important Christmas period we had a and recognising much more explicitly the part that number of special deals negotiated centrally with each of us plays in driving it.
For example, we have suppliers and sold across our businesses, a first for discovered far more effective ways of communicating the Group.
with customers through totally integrated marketing campaigns than were possible before.
We currently have store directors from the UK and Norway swapping roles to share best ideas and We have improved and deepened the range of Our practices from each others stores.
Experts Love products in each category, helping This is just the beginning.
There remain many customers choose the best product for their needs.
opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and best In the UK we have further rolled out our customer practice across the Group.
Some of these will take time, journeys into cameras, laundry and computing which but we must exploit further the benefits of being a panhave all performed very well.
KNOWHOW, our market leading end to end services Continuing to deliver on these priorities will enable the brand, has gone from strength to strength growing added value services by 54% in the UK: Group to further improve its EBIT margin going forward as well as strengthen our focus on cash generation and We have rolled out service improvements and returns on capital employed.
products such as Fault & Fix, white goods repair and 9pm cut off for next day delivery.
We have piloted KNOWHOW in Northern Europe Group business performance which has exceeded our expectations.
Underlying Group sales were up 4% at 8,213.9 million We believe that the conversation with our customers 2011 12 7,910.2 million and up 4% on a like for like is our unique source of competitive advantage and basis, outperforming local markets in general.
Underlying we continue to invest heavily in colleague training Group sales were up 6% at constant exchange rates.
and designing a bespoke programme for every Underlying profit before interest and tax was 136.0 million colleague in our business.
Underlying profit before tax was 94.5 million 2011 12 profit of 82.1 million.
We have reduced costs by 45 million as part of our Group gross margins were down 0.7% across the full year, two year 90 million cost reduction initiative.
mainly driven by product mix.
We are managing the business with stock turns at 6.4 times, which improved by 8% year on year and are, we believe, market leading for an electrical retailer.
Dixons Retail plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
