22 Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has an established risk management process for identifying, assessing, evaluating and managing significant risks.
The structure and process can be summarised: DPS Board Ownership and monitoring Audit Committee of the Board Review Executive Committee Management of key risks Risk Management Committee Co-ordination and review Group functions Subsidiary companies Identification, assessment and management of mitigation Internal Audit Challenge and review Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23 Strategic report Risks and mitigation actions are identified team take personal responsibility for give rise to new risks or risk areas.
The RMC within subsidiary companies and Group monitoring these risks and mitigation actions.
reports status to the Audit Committee and functions.
Significant risks, which are defined A Risk Management Committee, chaired by provides an annual report to the full Board.
with reference to magnitude of impact and the Group Finance Director, receives reports likelihood of occurrence are escalated to the and presentations on risk status and maintains The principal risks associated with execution Group risk register.
Members of the executive a view on changes in the business that may of Group strategies are summarised: Strategy Risk Magnitude Likelihood Risk status Competitor actions High Possible No change 1 Building long-term leading to loss of customer relationships customers Damage to reputation High Remote No change 2 and loss of customers through product failure Failure of new High Remote No change 3 Maintaining product product development leadership Disruptive High Possible No change 4 technology Supply chain failure Medium Possible No change 5 Delivering service excellence Regulatory controls Medium Remote No change 6 on use of materials Failure to develop Medium Possible Reduced 7 digital print markets Strategic investments Changes in macro High Likely Reduced 8 economic conditions Business sustainability Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 24 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigation The Group competes against a w Loss of customer relationship w Aftermarket retention is a key 1 combination of established global and potential repeat business.
objective for the Group and we companies as well as regional or local monitor customer buying patterns w Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
businesses and independent suppliers closely for any changes in behaviour.
of aftermarket products and services.
w We operate win back programmes for The principal risk of competition lost business, reinforcing the value of is loss of profitable aftermarket the complete service package we offer.
business to low cost providers.
w Our printers and fluids are developed to work optimally together and our product range offers a very wide range of capability to meet most needs.
Domino products are used in high w Lost customers.
w Quality and performance are key criteria 2 through-put and often time critical in our Product Creation Process.
We w Damage to brand value.
Reliability and production measure and monitor performance w Additional cost and lost profit.
of our products and have response Any product failure can cause disruption mechanisms in place to deal swiftly with but in severe cases this can result any issues customers may experience.
in lost production or spoilage.
w We operate customer and technical support teams worldwide and have highly trained and well equipped technicians on hand to assist customers with problem resolution.
Maintaining product leadership w Failure to achieve a return w The Group has a well-established and 3 requires significant ongoing investment on investment.
proven Product Creation Process in R&D.
The development of new with rigorous stage-gate review and w Loss of market share.
products involves risks including failure approvals.
This involves detailed review w Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
to reach the production phase, the of product specifications, business product not achieving performance plans, risk assessments, systems requirements or the market not design, development and pre-launch proving to be as large as expected.
Product launches are coordinated and early life performance, both technical and commercial, of all new products is monitored closely.
The range of technology used in coding, w Loss of leadership and w We maintain a close watch on 4 marking and variable printing has been innovator status.
technology developments and developed gradually over many years have a small team dedicated w Loss of market share.
but there remains a threat that new to identifying developments in w Reduced sales, profit and cash flow.
disruptive technology could be developed markets and technology.
where ownership rights prevent the w We partner with both commercial Group accessing that technology.
firms and academia, sponsoring research into new technology areas.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 25 Strategic report Risk Impact Mitigation The Group operates a policy of dual w Increased costs.
w Where alternative sources are 5 source for critical components as far as it not available or are not approved, w Extended lead times leading to lost is possible.
In some cases, technological we operate buffer stocks sales.
advances or supply capabilities mean adequate to maintain supply w Reduced profits and cash flow.
we must rely upon single sources.
number of Group suppliers are located w We maintain business continuity in Asia necessitating lengthy supply and disaster recovery plans in all chains and exposing the Group to our manufacturing operations.
potential disruption through supplier w The Group maintains business failure or transportation difficulties.
Use of certain chemicals in the Groups w Disruption to supply and customer w The Group has an active regulatory 6 fluids products creates exposure to dissatisfaction.
affairs team who monitor legislation and often unique regulatory and legislative regulatory matters affecting the business w Additional costs.
requirements of the many countries in and use of chemicals in particular.
w Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
Chemicals that may or w A number of our management and staff can come into contact with packaging participate in industry and advisory are controlled and there are regular bodies enabling us to maintain an updates and exclusions from approved overview of developments in this area.
While these can typically be w We have an active programme overcome, at a cost, by reformulation, in of managing compliance with the worst case it could lead to product all chemical labelling and safety withdrawal and impact supply.
The Group continues to invest in w Failure to achieve a return on w A digital print business unit has 7 developing a full colour digital printing investment.
been established with a dedicated business.
This is a new market which is senior management team.
Skills, w Reduced prospects for sales and profit developing as technology becomes capable competencies and resources have growth.
of meeting the needs for high-speed, high been added to build capability.
The market w Extensive field trials were undertaken is expected to grow strongly over the working with an industry partner next five years but there is a risk those customer to validate the new projections are wrong or that the Group colour digital press printer and is unable to capitalise on that growth.
to prove the economic benefits of the solutions offered.
w Initial sales of the printer in its first year have met expectations.
The Group makes sales worldwide, in w Lost sales.
w We maintain close contact with our 8 developed and developing economies sales businesses and distributor partners, w Bad debts.
and is subject to changes in the economic seeking to anticipate issues with w Additional costs to overcome trade or political situation in those countries importation of goods or fiscal controls.
In any one year there may w Our regulatory teams are be a country in the world in which able to respond quickly to local actions make trading or payments changing compliance needs.
In isolation these are w We maintain high level insurance on manageable and are unlikely to be distributor debt, where available, material to Group results: however, the in case of material default.
risk exists that more than one country or a whole region implements policies that affect our ability to sell our products.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
