Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Risk management Our approach The Board has continued to identify, evaluate and monitor risks We recognise that it is important that risks are identified, assessed facing the Group and, during the year under review, a particular and prioritised in a timely manner whilst ensuring that appropriate focus has been placed on identifying the likely impact that each controls and mitigation strategies are in place.
Each identified risk identified risk could have on the business.
This has allowed the has a business owner who manages and reports on that particular Board to prioritise and target those risks deemed likely to have risk to the Group Executive and the relevant Leadership the most detrimental impact on the business, were the scenario Team.
The teams then assist the Board in the review of the risk to arise.
management processes and take responsibility for designing the appropriate internal control systems and policies with each Protecting the business is of paramount importance and an business owner.
The Board is therefore able to feed risks into the essential part of the Boards role.
Our approach to risk management formulation and management of the Groups strategic objectives includes developing key business plans and policies relating to areas and ultimately determine which risks are primary or secondary which are likely to have a severe impact on our business.
in terms of both likelihood and impact.
Assess risk Create mitigation Update key Regularly review Identify risk and impact strategy riskregister and evaluate Principal risks and uncertainties As with any business, we face risks and uncertainties on a daily risk could have and the mitigating activities that we have put basis.
However, below are the main risks the Board considers in place to try to prevent such risk materialising.
We recognise to be of most significance to the Group in terms of preventing or that other risks are still present and seek to ensure that they are restricting execution of our strategy, together with the impact each managed accordingly.
Business strategy Principal risk Management and mitigation Strategic direction Diversication and pursuit of growth in new markets in accordance with strategy The risk of implementing a strategy in new markets such as Germany, plans set by the Board and executed by Leadership Teams in each country.
Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg that does not achieve the The Executive Directors feed in Leadership Team strategy plans to the Board desired outcomes, and the impact of acquiring the option over Austria.
The Leadership Teams meet weekly which permits senior management to identify Impact any challenges or failures quickly and to implement or revise strategy promptly.
Targets may not be achieved, profits could suffer and share price The Board regularly reviews and considers the option to acquire the master could drop.
franchise rights for Austria, which is due to expire on 31 December 2014, Worst case scenario, brand failure and exit from one of the newly inlightof the Groups general performance and structure.
Principal risk Management and mitigation Appointment of new Executive Directors The Nomination Committee has dedicated a substantial part of the year to Both the CEO and the CFO announced their plans to resign retire sourcing and recruiting the right replacement for both the CEO and the CFO.
As a result the Board and the The Company has worked closely alongside external recruitment agencies to Nomination Committee have focused on nding their replacements.
ensure the right candidates are found.
A CFO Designate Sean Wilkins was appointed on 18 November 2013 which Impact allows for a period of handover between the current exiting CFO and the new CFO.
Potential for lack of leadership and guidance from the All of the Board are committed to nding the right candidate and replacement Executive Directors.
for the exiting CEO and on 31 January 2014, David Wild, Interim CEO, was Potential for period of time with no Executive Directors appointed to assist in the period between the exit of the current CEO and the running the Group.
Management and mitigation Principal risk A new Managing Director International has been appointed who is dedicated Germany torunning the German and Swiss markets.
Germany remains a challenge and the Group is dedicated tofocusing on its success and growth.
A dedicated German Leadership Team was established during the year under review.
The majority of this Leadership Team consists of German nationals who Impact understand and know the German market.
Failure to succeed in the German market could result in further losses tothe Group.
The German stores performance and results are scrutinised and analysed weekly which allows for fast-paced strategic decisions to be made.
Long-term failure to break even in Germany could result in an exit from the German market.
In December 2013 and January 2014 we sold certain of our corporate stores in Germany to franchisees with a commitment to sell further corporate stores in2014 which will allow the Group to focus on the German strategy rather thantheoperation of running the stores.
A Franchise Development and Recruitment Team has been established in Germany and the Groups first German franchisees are now on board.
It is expected that these German franchisees will start opening stores in Germany during 2014. www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 Risk management continued Competition Principal risk Management and mitigation Consumer relevance The Group places a strong focus on new product development to ensure that Quick service restaurants are affected by various changes in the menu has a broad appeal and reects consumer trends.
A New Product consumer tastes, brand relevance and demographic trends.
Development NPD Team meets every two weeks to discuss and review consumer relevance, trends and new products.
Impact We stay abreast of local and national trends and react quickly to them, an example Any material change in market perception of home delivery of this being our gluten free pizza.
Consumers showed a real desire for a gluten and convenience foods could adversely affect the Group.
free option from Dominos and we are proud to offer a gluten free pizza which Failure to anticipate and respond to a change in consumer has been accredited by Coeliac UK.
demand could have a material effect on future results of Our NPD and Demographics Team work closely together to understand and operations and financial performance.
review changing consumer tastes and trends to ensure we respond promptly to any changing views and tastes.
We also work closely with external third parties who focus on consumer analysis and brand tracking.
Principal risk Management and mitigation Impact of competitors We have dedicated teams who focus on ensuring Dominos is the best pizza Failure to compete on areas including product offering, price, delivery company in the market whilst keeping an eye onour competitors.
We work relentlessly to reect changes in consumer tastes and to improve ouroffering by investing in price, quality and service.
Impact Part of our strategy has a broad appeal on price, product, new store design Adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
We regularly review and analyse the markets in which we operate and customer perceptions of Dominos.
Franchisees Principal risk Management and mitigation Material deterioration in relationships with franchisees Relationships with franchisees are carefully nurtured by Directors, senior Relationships with franchisees are key to the Groups success management and franchisee-facing employees within all departments at Dominos.
asthe franchisees drive a large part of the business.
One-to-one business review meetings are held with each franchisee at least annually.
Franchisee dinners and awards are held nationally throughout the year, allowing Impact franchisees to discuss anything of concern or interest directly with Directors.
Franchisees may leave the system which could result in a The standard franchise agreement in place with franchisees prohibits a franchisee drop inoperational standards within stores.
from opening up another pizza outlet for a period of one year post exit from the Franchisees may elect to go to a competitor.
Lack of franchisee buy-in could result in franchisees not Forums are in place Marketing Advisory Co-operative and an Operations Forum supporting changes to policies, standards, brand guidelines within the Group whereby key senior employees meet with franchisees to discuss or opening stores.
operational and marketing plans, thus allowing franchisees to interact with the Group regularly.
Principal risk Management and mitigation Commercial leverage of large franchisees Senior management and Directors endeavour to maintain a strong and close Certain Dominos franchisees are now of considerable scale and working relationship with each franchisee which enables early identication therefore there is a risk that should these franchisees be allowed of issues and allows for resolutions to be found as quickly as possible.
toexpand further they could attempt to leverage off their size Each franchisee has an individual growth plan which sets out the agreed position witha view to gaining preferential treatment from the Group.
with regard to store openings.
Impact Franchisees could seek to invest in alternative business ventures, which could lead to less focus on Dominos Pizza stores.
Franchisees could also stop growing, or sell their Dominos stores.
Principal risk Management and mitigation Reputational damage or loss of confidence in the brand Franchisees are required to adhere strictly to the terms of the standard franchise Any significant act, omission or harmful allegation that is made agreement which places obligations on the franchisee to try to prevent any in public in relation to the brand could lead to significant media reputational damage to the brand on the part of the franchisee.
interest and potentially bad publicity.
Regular mentoring of franchisees, training and store visits are carried out by the Group.
Should a franchisee be in material breach of the standard franchise agreement the Impact Company is at liberty to terminate.
Should publicity be of a sufciently material nature customers Policies and procedures are in place with employees of the Group which detail may deviate from purchasing from Dominos.
what employees should and should not do in the realms of social media when A material loss in sales could adversely affect future results talking about or referring to the Dominos brand.
of operation and financial condition.
24 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Data and security Principal risk Management and mitigation Data protection and security The Group uses encryption and authentication technology to provide the Ensuring the appropriate security and safeguards are in place securitynecessary to effect the secure transmission of customer data.
toprotect against loss or theft of customer data.
Customer data is protected by both physical and systems controls.
All desktops and laptops are protected with antivirus and antimalware Impact softwareand have access restrictions in place.
Negative publicity and potential investigation and fines from All mobile devices have software installed which allow them to be wiped regulatory bodies.
Principal risk Management and mitigation IT systems and infrastructure The IT department regularly monitors, controls and maintains the integrity and significant failure in, or successful attacks on, the IT processes efficiency of IT infrastructure.
ofour retail operations could impact online sales and each Processes are in place to deal with any significant IT security incidents.
All critical systems for the Group have external security penetration tests carried out on a regular basis.
Impact Contingency plans and external data centres are in place should any failures arise.
Website sales could stop, which could have a serious detrimental effect on the financial performance of the Group as online sales continue to out weigh telephone and walk-in sales.
People Principal risk Management and mitigation Employees Talent management is reviewed at least annually within the Leadership Teams Failure to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best people where key employees are identied and bespoke development plans are put atall levels.
People development is a key objective for each member of the Leadership Teams.
Impact Internal teams, including the Happiness @ Work Team, meet monthly to review Failing to have the right people within the Group could limit and implement feedback from staff.
The Group places significant investment in training, development and incentives.
Property Principal risk Management and mitigation Store growth Regular meetings and reviews on store opening targets and strategy take Continuing acquisition and development of property sites carries place at Group Executive, Leadership Team and Board level.
inherent risk as challenges exist in relation to nding new sites, Each country in which the Group operates poses different challenges in relation obtaining planning permission or other consents and compliance to store growth.
The more mature markets such as the UK have dedicated in the countries in which the Group operates.
teams focusing on property acquisition, store design and store splits with franchisees.
The newer markets, namely Germany and Switzerland, have property Impact professionals focusing on licensing and permits to enable new stores to be tted Failure to hit store opening targets, or a material reduction in out and opened as soon as possible.
store openings, could result in failure to meet growth targets The Group monitors legal and regulatory compliance in all .
andthus open areas to competitors.
Legal routes of redress are available in the UK should more onerous planning restrictions be enforced.
The Group and its planning consultants actively build on relationships with, and work closely with, local authorities to ensure there is an understanding of the responsible way in which stores operate and the Groups willingness to accept appropriate planning conditions.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Risk management continued Corporate governance Principal risk Management and mitigation Internal controls, fraud and compliance The Board and the Audit Committee have spent a large proportion of their time Ensuring the Group has the appropriate internal controls and during the year focusing on, reviewing and analysing the internal controls in place policies and practices.
In 2013 the decision to establish an internal audit function in 2014 was taken, reporting to the Company Secretary.
Impact During 2014, the Group will focus on strengthening its internal controls and The Groups growth and expansion into Europe means larger adding to its existing policies and procedures.
and more remote teams with potential for fraudulent and Behavioural guidance is given to employees and the Group has in place an Antidishonest activity by suppliers, customers and employees.
Bribery & Corruption Policy which all employees and external suppliers commit to Risk that issues or considerations which should be taken comply with.
into account could be missed if appropriate policies and A Whistleblowing Policy is in place.
procedures are not in place.
Food production, storage and suppliers Principal risk Management and mitigation Failure of a critical supplier Core suppliers are routinely put through a risk assessment to determine the We are reliant upon the continued operation of various third-party likelihood of continued source and supply of goods.
suppliers who provide raw materials.
Contingency plans are put in place to deal with the scenario of a supplier stopping supply.
Impact We maintain a close relationship with suppliers and have regular reviews Should a major supplier cease trading, we may be temporarily andmeetings.
unable to produce certain food products or be forced to obtain supply from a different, more expensive source.
Principal risk Management and mitigation Food safety and compliance A dedicated Health & Safety Team and Food Regulatory Team constantly review Supply Chain Centre and store compliance with food safety and monitor food safety and compliance.
Controls are in place to deal with product integrity, approval and management ofstores, emerging issues and any changes to regulatory standards.
Impact Supplier assurance programme in place and Supply Chain Centres are regularly Supply Chain Centre s or a store could be closed down in the audited by independent third parties to the BRC Global Standard for food safety.
event of a serious food safety risk or issue.
Regular mentoring of franchisees, training and store visits are carried out by the Brand recognition could be seriously damaged if a food safety Group to ensure standards are maintained at all times.
Principal risk Management and mitigation Production issues or destruction of Supply Chain Centres We work in partnership with our suppliers and Dominos Pizza master franchisees One of the key functions of the business is production of dough in neighbouring territories to manage the risk of any delays or interruptions in the and the distribution of food and other store items by our Supply supply chain, which could affect trade.
We also have the opportunity to increase trade at one of our other Supply Chain Centres should another Supply Chain Centre have to reduce or stop production Impact forany reason.
A single major failure or repeated failures in our dough A comprehensive Site Down Recovery Plan is also in place and forms part of the production, distribution of food or other store materials could Groups Business Continuity Plan.
prevent stores from trading regularly or for a prolonged period.
Potential for a major adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
26 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
