Overview of risk Drax Group plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties A structured approach to risk management The effective management of risks within the Group underpins the delivery ofourkey priorities.
Philip Hudson Director of Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary Board Audit responsible Committee for the review system of risk the risk management registers and internal and internal control controls Risk Management Committees Periodic review of risk register.
Identify, monitor and manage risks Operating companies Maintain an effective system of risk management and internal control Risk The Group has a comprehensive Risk management committees 4 Corporate services risk system of governance controls in place management committee During the year the Group enhanced to manage risks.
Policies have been 5 Haven Power risk its risk management system with established in key areas of the business management committee the establishment of a Group Risk such as trading, treasury, production Management Committee.
It is chaired by and health and safety to ensure that 6 Drax Biomass International risk the Director of Corporate Affairs and its these risks are managed in a controlled management committee members are the chairs of each of the manner and in accordance with the Each Committee is responsible for business risk management committees.
policies set by the Board.
ensuring that all risks associated with The Group Risk Management Committee its specific area of the business are is responsible for monitoring the risk Internal control and identified, analysed and managed management process on a Group wide systematically and appropriately.
It also oversees the process Each Committee has terms of reference The Board is responsible for the Groups in relation to cross-Group risks and that require systems and controls system of internal control and for reviewing assists the business risk management to be approved, implemented and its effectiveness.
A process has been committees in risk analysis and monitored in order to ensure that identification of best practice, and established for identifying, evaluating, activities are commensurate with the determining risk appetite and managing provides additional assurance on the risk appetite established by the Board, the significant risks faced by the Group risk control environment to the Audit are adequately resourced and comply and this has been in place for the year Committee and the Board.
with applicable legal and regulatory under review up to the date of approval requirements.
Each risk committee There are six business risk of the 2013 Annual report and accounts.
contains at least one member of the management committees: Executive Committee.
The process is designed to manage 1 Treasury and commodity risk rather than eliminate the risk of failure managementcommittee to achieve business objectives, and 2 Safety, health, environmental and can only provide reasonable, not Philip Hudson productionintegrity committee absolute, assurance against material Director of Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary 3 New developments risk misstatement or loss.
managementcommittee Policy and review Drax Group plc 47 Annual report and accounts 2013 Risk monitoring and assurance The Group also has processes in Risk management process theBoard is ultimately responsible for place for business continuity and The key elements of the risk this system of risk management and emergency planning.
management process are as follows: internal control.
The Audit Committee Through the Audit Committee, the reviews the suitability and effectiveness Risk identification risks faced by Board has implemented a programme of risk management processes and the Group are identified during the of internal audit reviews of different controls on behalf of the Board.
formulation of the Business Plan.
aspects of the Groups activities.
Risk management committees assist the Senior management and risk owners, The programme, which is reviewed and executive directors in the operation and with the assistance of the risk updated annually, is designed so that, implementation of the risk management management committees, periodically over time, all facets of the business process, and provide a source of review the risks to ensure that the risk are reviewed to ensure appropriate assurance to the Audit Committee that management processes and controls in systems of control are in place and are the process is operating effectively.
their area are appropriate and effective, working effectively or, where they are and that new risks are identified.
not, deficiencies are rectified by timely and appropriate action.
In agreeing Internal control Risk analysis the basic causes of each the actions to be taken in response to risk are considered, and the impact and In addition, the Group has a each report, the aim is always to embed likelihood of it materialising is assessed.
comprehensive and well defined internal controls, including measures Risk registers are used to document internal control system with clear intended effectively to identify and the risks identified, level of severity and structures, delegated authority levels manage risk, within each area of the probability, ownership and mitigation and accountabilities.
In parallel with its measures for each risk.
The risk registers work in relation to internal audit, the The Group has a system of planning and are reviewed by the risk management Audit Committee also satisfies itself monitoring, which incorporates Board committees on at least a quarterly basis.
that an action plan, for dealing with approval of a rolling five year Business Risks are then logged with reference points raised by the external auditor in Plan and approval, towards the end toimpact and probability as follows: their yearly management letter is being of each year, of operating and capital properly addressed by management.
expenditure budgets for the year ahead.
Probability Performance against the budget is Low Medium High With the assistance of the Audit subsequently monitored and reported to Committee, the Board has reviewed the the Board on a monthly basis.
The Board effectiveness of the system of internal also receives monthly reports on control.
It has reviewed the reports of the trading risk exposure as compared to Audit Committee, which has considered the pre-set limits, and monitors overall all significant aspects of internal control Group performance against a Scorecard including financial, operational, trading, which shows progress against a set of compliance, social, environmental and financial, operating, safety and other ethical risks in accordance with the targets set at the start of the year.
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Performance is reported formally to on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
shareholders through the publication of Following its review, the Board Group results.
Operational management determined that it was not aware makes frequent reports on performance of any significant deficiency or Risk appetite is identified by reference to the executive directors.
material weakness in the system tothe same criteria.
The analysis enables ofinternal control.
decisions to be taken as to how that risk should be managed by applying mitigation measures to align the riskwiththe identified risk appetite.
Impact Low Medium High Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 48 Annual report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Change Commodity market price risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities The commodity markets in which, Volatility in financial results.
Well understood progressive hedging we tradeare inherently volatile, and strategy with forward power and ROC sales Associated objective and key priorities combined with corresponding purchases generation remunerated through of fuel and CO2 emissions allowances when Maximise the value of the Drax business the Renewables Obligation increases profitable and appropriate to do so.
therisk in relation to the ROC market, Apply for conversions under the CfD regime, removing some income volatility from Risk keycommodity exposures.
We are exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity and gas, the price of coal and sustainable biomass and other fuels, the price of CO2 emissions allowances and the market price of ROCs.
Counterparty risk Change Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities, Additional costs associated with securing The recent recession and uncertain, Diversified fuel supply in terms of source fuel and other goods and services from and counterparties.
economic growth potentially impact other suppliers.
oncounterparty risk, Failure to secure fuel from other suppliers, Target to optimise holding of fuel stocks.
resulting in limitation of operations.
Risk, Close monitoring and reporting of, Adverse effect on cash flow and earnings, We rely on third party suppliers for the concentration risk in suppliers and arising from the failure of one or more of the delivery of fuel and other goods and services.
counterparties to whom we sell power.
We purchase a significant quantity of our fuel under contracts with anumber of large UK and, Full suite of power counterparties with Associated objective and key priorities international suppliers, so are exposed to the strong credit ratings.
risk of non-performance by these suppliers.
Power trading contracts generally include Maximise the value of the Drax business provisions that force counterparties to post, We enter into fixed price and fixed margin collateral where their credit rating drops, contracts for the sale of electricity to a number subject to certain restrictions.
of counterparties, so are exposed to the risk of failure of one or more of these counterparties.
Close monitoring and reporting of potential credit and collateral risk.
Change Power and renewables market liquidity risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities Liquidity in the power and ROC markets, Inability to hedge short to medium-term, Grow direct sales through Haven Power, exposure to electricity prices through is dependent onthere being a sufficient ourelectricity supply business.
Initiatives to be active and responsive make number of counterparties willing to, Increased exposure to short-term Drax an attractive business partner.
Oppose structural changes that impact, Inability to sell all of our electricity output, Risk ourmarket access, such as clearing or ROCs.
The market structure and consolidation of, Lower revenues and increased costs toachieve theexisting generation and supply businesses, Work with other independent generators trading objectives.
in the UK could result in areduction in the viaIndependent Generators Group to number of active participants in the market, Adverse effect on financial results achieve positive market and regulatory withwhom weare able to trade power and andcash flows.
Secure longer-term structured deals when Associated objective and key priorities profitable to do so.
Apply for conversions under the CfD regime, Grow our retail business reducing our reliance on the liquidity of the ROC market.
Maximise the value of the Drax business Maximise profitability from our coal generation capacity Deliver our biomass strategy Drax Group plc 49 Annual report and accounts 2013 Change Biomass market risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities The biomass market is still in its relative, Inability to progress the biomass, Contract with suppliers where a robust growthstrategy.
infancy and investment in the supply operational plant and logistics infrastructure, Adverse effect on financial results is already in place: work with new suppliers to chain is required andcash flows.
Risk, Invest in the supply chain whilst in its infancy Associated objective and key priorities to ensure security and timing of supplies.
We could fail to secure sustainable biomass supplies and or logistics arrangements, Hedge currency exposures or secure Deliver our biomass strategy which meet our hurdle return rates and contracts in sterling to the extent that it operational requirements.
Most of the sustainable biomass that we can procure is priced in foreign currency which increases our exposure to fluctuations against sterling and poses arisk to profitability.
Change Plant operating risk Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities Equipment failure and the impact, Personnel injury.
Comprehensive risk-based plant investment onpersonnel and operations, Lower revenues.
Increased costs and contractual penalties.
Maintaining a trained and Risk competent workforce.
Adverse effect on financial results, Plant failure may be caused by the andcash flows.
Strong health and safety culture.
underperformance or outright failure of plant, Target to optimise holding of spare transmission assets or other equipment and Associated objective and key priorities components for use in the event of plant components including the IT systems used to failure, particularly long lead time items.
operate the plant or conduct trading activities.
Maintain operational excellence The duration of the resultant forced outages is, Business continuity plan for IT systems.
influenced by the lead time to manufacture and, Ensure adequate insurance in place to cover procure replacement components and to carry Deliver excellent people leadership losses from plant failure where possible.
across our operations, Significant amounts of research and, As we progress our plans to convert to a development work have been undertaken predominantly biomass-fuelled generator, we interms of handling and burning biomass.
are exposed to a broader range, and increased level, of technical risk.
Whilst successful first conversion of a unit to biomass has been achieved, further units are planned.
Good progress has been made on our US investments however, project execution risk remains.
Regulatory and political risk Change Context Potential impact Examples of mitigating activities, Less funding available for plant retrofit The governments market reform, Briefing, representation and engagement investment costs to meet increasingly stringent atEU and UK level.
agenda is driven predominantly environmental requirements.
Development of abatement and alternative bytheneed to move to a sustainable, Lower load factors generation levels.
low carbon energy sector which delivers, Adverse effect on financial results, Apply for conversions under the CfD affordable supplies to customers whilst andcash flows.
regime and grandfathered ROC regime to maintaining security of supply over provide increased certainty over future Associated objective and key priorities revenue streams.
Laws and regulations, Pricing of biomass contracts to allow for are many and complex, are frequently Deliver our biomass strategy adverse commodity market movements.
changing, and becoming ever more, Regular third party assurance over stringent, particularly in relation system effectiveness.
Maintain operational excellence toenvironmental matters, Strong safety culture and related training.
Risk, Changes to the current regulatory regime surrounding renewables, CPS mechanism andother legislation could adversely affect ourbiomass strategy.
The EU, UK and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations cover many aspects of our operations including limits on emissions to air andwater, noise, soil groundwater contamination, waste, and health andsafety standards.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
