Key risks and uncertainties In common with all businesses, Dunelm faces risks and uncertainties, the effective management of which is necessary to enable us to achieve our strategic objectives and to secure our business for the long term.
Our risk management process aims to ensure that the business balances both risk and reward and makes sound judgements as to likelihood and impact.
Periodic risk identification and assessment workshops are in place involving senior The Board has overall management representing all parts of the business to review the risk profile of the organisation and responsibility for risk to assess the potential likelihood and impact of those risks.
The Groups Risk Register, which lists management, internal control and ranks the risks in terms of both potential impact as well as relative importance, is updated and business continuity and following these workshops.
determines the nature and extent Quarterly reviews of these risks and the controls in place to address them are undertaken by of the risks it is willing to take management and the Board gains assurance through twice yearly reviews, as well as by regular challenge to the executive team.
Further details of our governance and risk framework is set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 36 to 42.
Our assessment of the principal risks facing the business are set out below: Key Link to strategy D evelop our specialist proposition Grow multi-channel Expand our store portfolio D evelop and exploit our infrastructure Description contained in the Groups Food Safety Manual.
Brand The quality and safety of our stores products and Staff certification is compulsory and risk reputation, services including coffee shops is essential to assessments, equipment inspections and product and the business.
If our specialist proposition fails to compliance audits are in constant use to ensure service quality deliver this there is a risk that individuals could be standards are maintained.
harmed and that reputational damage could lead We continue to invest in a re-fit programme to to consumers, colleagues and other stakeholders ensure stores remain contemporary and provide Performance losing confidence in the brand.
Indicator: All our operating locations are subject to Mitigation Product complaints regular health and safety compliance audits and recalls We have a range of policies specifying the to ensure they provide a safe and secure quality of products and production processes Executive environment.
that are signed up to by suppliers.
responsibility: We operate a full test schedule for all new Nick Wharton, Progress in 2012 13 products and on a sample basis for ongoing Chief Executive Our policies and procedures have been lines, overseen by our specialist Technology reviewed and updated.
This also covers human rights concerns.
compared Our product recall procedure has been Food hygiene is maintained through the to 2011 12: reviewed.
adoption of clear operating guidelines Increasing 20 Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 B Bu us siin ne es ss s ove over rv viie ew w B Bus usiin ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all s st tat ate em me ent nts s Company information Description We are investing significant resource to develop Competition The Group competes with a wide variety of and enhance our multi-channel customer offer.
retailers both in-store and online.
Failure to Progress in 2012 13 maintain a competitive offer in the Homewares We are now the UKs leading homewares market on multiple fronts price, range, quality Performance retailer with a market share of 6.9%.
and service could materially impact returns and Indicator: limit opportunities for growth.
We have redirected the tasks of our colleagues Market share in-store towards activities which enhance the Mitigation Executive customer experience.
The Board continually monitors Group responsibility: We have Introduced a new customer feedback performance within the Homewares market and Nick Wharton, system which enables us to react quickly to against specific competitive threats.
Chief Executive both positive and negative feedback.
Continuous brand tracking also operates Impact Increased marketing expenditure has helped to gauge relative customer perception and compared raise awareness of our brand.
to 2011 12: Our online sales now account for 4.1% of total We have a strong focus on new product Same sales up from 2.5% in 2011 12. development, both in existing and new homewares categories, to strengthen our specialist proposition.
Description Operational management are also responsible Compliance The Group risks incurring penalties, damages for liaising with the Company Secretary and claims and reputational damage arising from external advisers to ensure that potential failure to comply with legislative or regulatory issues from new legislation are identified and requirements across many areas including but not managed.
Performance limited to, trading, health and safety, employment We have a whistle-blowing procedure and Indicator: law, data protection, Bribery Act, advertising, helpline which enables colleagues to raise Prosecution and human rights and the environment.
other regulatory concerns in confidence.
action Mitigation Progress in 2012 13 We operate a number of policies and codes Executive Training on the requirements of the Bribery Act of practice outlining mandatory requirements responsibility: and on competition law has been extended to Nick Wharton, within the business governing behaviours in relevant colleagues.
Chief Executive all key areas.
These are regularly reviewed and Human Resources policies and health and updated.
Impact safety policies and procedures are kept under compared constant review.
For further details please see to 2011 12: our Corporate social responsibility report on Same pages 24 to 32.
Description Progress in 2012 13 Information We are dependent on the reliability and capability We have recruited a Chief Information Officer technology of key information systems and technology.
and we have increased investment in our IT A major incident including a cyber-attack, function.
sustained performance problems or failure to We have commenced a major upgrade of our keep technology up to date could constitute a core SAP system which should be completed Performance significant threat to the business, at least in the in 2013.
Number of major We have commenced the upgrade of our incidents Mitigation multi-channel platform due to be completed in All business critical systems are based on 2013 14.
Executive established, industry leading package solutions, Disaster recovery plans have been reviewed in responsibility: with full support in place.
Nick Wharton, Chief Executive We have a disaster recovery strategy designed to ensure continuity of trade.
Impact compared to 2011 12: Increasing Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 21 Key risks and uncertainties continued Description Progress in 2012 13 Economic Consumer confidence remains relatively low.
This We continue to offer a range of targeted uncertainty may result in difficult trading conditions in the promotions both on our regular range and one retail sector as a whole limiting profitability and off products.
Permanent price reductions have been made in Performance certain core ranges.
Mitigation Indicator: We offer goods across a range of price points, Our range of own brand products at lower Financial performance enabling customers to trade up or down as they prices has been expanded.
competitors Our focus on maintaining a low cost base Executive enables us to keep prices competitive.
responsibility: We monitor competitor pricing and consumer Nick Wharton, behaviour to enable us to adjust our offer Chief Executive quickly where needed.
Impact compared to 2011 12: Same Description Progress in 2012 13 Commodity Significant cost price increases and high levels 16.2% of our products are now sourced directly prices of volatility have been a feature of retailing from the Far East 14.3% 2011 12. over recent years particularly freight rates, raw Foreign currency hedging has been increased materials, energy and exchange rates.
Failure to to provide a greater level of certainty in Performance manage and control these changes may lead to commercial decision making.
Indicator: pressure on margins and adversely impact the Gross margin financial results.
Executive Mitigation responsibility: Dunelm uses its scale, buying power and David Stead, growth to secure supply of key raw materials at Finance Director competitive prices.
Impact Increased direct sourcing of products from the compared Far East has mitigated cost increases.
to 2011 12: Freight rates, energy and currency are bought Reducing forward to help mitigate volatility and aid margin management.
Description Progress in 2012 13 Portfolio Our strategy for the acquisition of sites in key Availability of vacant or new retail space in the expansion right location is essential to deliver our growth catchment areas remains under regular review.
Inability to secure or develop the required We have legally completed on 10 new stores retail trading space to deliver our superstore due to open in 2013 14 and beyond.
Performance format will limit our pace of expansion or force us Indicator: to compromise our offer.
Number of new store openings and Mitigation pipeline Our Group Property Director actively monitors availability of retail space with the support of Executive professional advisers.
responsibility: Nick Wharton, Financial modelling helps us assess the viability Chief Executive of potential sites.
The Groups strong cash generation and debtImpact compared free status provide an attractive covenant to to 2011 12: landlords and the ability to acquire freehold Increasing units if appropriate.
22 22 Dunelm Gr Dunelm Group plc oup plcAnnual r Annual report and ac eport and acc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 B Bu us siin ne es ss s ove over rv viie ew w B Bus usiin ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all s st tat ate em me ent nts s Company information Description Suppliers The Group seeks to mitigate this Infrastructure The Group could suffer the loss of a major facility risk by limiting the dependency on individual with a consequent impact on short-term trading suppliers and by actively managing key supplier or diversion of focus from longer-term strategy relationships.
High stock service levels and a Performance and planning.
This could materially affect the high proportion of direct-to-store deliveries Indicator: profitability of the business.
further mitigate supply chain risk.
n a Progress in 2012 13 The Group could suffer the loss of a major supply Executive We have carried out desk-top simulations of responsibility: partner also impacting short-term trading.
disaster scenarios affecting our major facilities.
Nick Wharton, Mitigation Chief Executive We have moved away from UK supplies to Physical infrastructure Head office, workroom, direct sourcing from factories in cases where Impact multi-channel and distribution centre activities supplier capability issues were identified.
compared are all subject to disaster recovery plans and to 2011 12: could all operate from fall back facilities.
Increasing Description Progress in 2012 13 Finance and Lack of appropriate levels of cash resources or We returned 65.8m of cash to shareholders treasury exposure to significant variations in interest rates in November 2012, in addition to our ordinary or exchange rates could have an impact on the dividend.
Groups operations and growth plans.
Net cash reserves at the end of the year were Performance 44.7m.
Mitigation Indicator: We have significant cash surpluses and further We have announced a further special dividend Available funds uncommitted borrowing facilities with partner worth 50.7m to be paid on 11 October 2013.
Executive banks to fund growth plans.
In addition, cash responsibility: flows are monitored weekly against agreed David Stead, budgets.
Finance Director A Group Treasury Policy is in place to govern Impact cash management strategies and to control compared foreign exchange exposures.
to 2011 12: Same Description The Groups remuneration policy detailed Key personnel The success of Dunelm is dependent upon the on page 48 is designed to ensure that high availability of talented senior management.
calibre executives are attracted and retained.
The business could be vulnerable to the loss of Lock-in of senior management is supported by Performance individual key managers.
awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and Indicator: Company Share Option Plan.
Colleague Mitigation retention The composition of the Executive team is kept Progress in 2012 13 under constant review by the Board to ensure In 2012 13 a Chief Information Officer was Executive that it is appropriate to deliver the growth plans responsibility: appointed at Executive Board level to support of the business.
Nick Wharton, the future growth needs of the business.
Chief Executive Succession plans and annual appraisals are in No members of the Executive Board or place across the Group.
Leadership Group have left the business in Impact The Executive Board seeks to develop high 2012 13. compared to 2011 12: calibre individuals through sponsored talent Reducing management and succession planning.
Nick Wharton David Stead Chief Executive Finance Director 12 September 2013 Dunelm Gr Dunelm Group plc oup plcAnnual r Annual report and ac eport and acc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 23 23
