PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS and inadequate investment in supply are structural.
But the decision to spend hundreds of millions of In the day-to-day operations of the Group we face pounds on sustaining electricity supply using many risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate temporary solutions is in most cases a political one.
and manage these risks, and the Board has developed The budgets of utilities in developing countries are a formal risk management process to support this.
Set generally controlled by government, and money spent out below are the principal risks and uncertainties on temporary power is money that has to be diverted which we believe could adversely affect us, potentially from elsewhere: the easiest, simplest thing to do is to impacting our employees, operations, revenue, profits, just put up with power cuts and not spend the money.
This list is not exhaustive there Only when the pressure becomes intolerable will are many things that could go wrong in an operation the coffers be opened.
Intolerable pressures include as large and geographically diverse as ours and the demands from industry and commerce desperate list might change as something that seems immaterial for power: from voters angry about lack of power.
today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
The balance of pressure and availability of money The foundation upon which the Groups risk are both affected by economic circumstance and management process is built is the Group Risk sentiment.
If economic growth is strong and tax Register.
This is compiled based on input from the revenues are growing: if industrial activity is businesses across the world as well as a top-down expanding, and deficits under control: if debt is review by members of the Executive Committee and cheap, then customers will be more inclined to spend Board.
This forms the basis of the mitigation strategies money on temporary power.
This was generally the put in place for all the key identified risks.
In the case in the decade up to 2012.
In the last two years, section below, we have picked from the Risk Register economies in emerging markets have seen lower rates those items we currently consider to be our most of growth and greater uncertainty, and accordingly important risks.
The order in which they are presented the willingness and ability of governments to spend is not significant.
money on temporary power has been tempered.
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, There is a link in our business between demand for our having a global footprint and a fleet that can work services and levels of economic activity: this link is almost anywhere is a great advantage because we can particularly evident in the Local business albeit in the move rental fleet between businesses: for example, in last two years we have also seen signs of lower levels 2013, we satisfied the Local business requirements for of economic activity impacting our Power Projects large generators out of our Power Projects business, business.
In the Local business if GDP growth goes where we currently have some excess capacity.
negative, demand for rental equipment is likely to Secondly, we try to ensure that, as they grow, our shrink even faster and this impact is likely to be businesses build a customer-base which is as diverse multiplied by pricing weakness at times of low demand.
as possible, to minimise exposure to any single sector We also have some businesses which, by their nature, or geography.
In Brazil we continue to invest in are exposed to particular sectors for instance, a temperature control to reduce our sectoral exposure to material proportion of our North American business offshore oil & gas: while in Russia we are expanding comes from upstream and downstream oil & gas, our to enable us to develop under-penetrated sectors such Australian business is highly dependent on mining as mining.
Thirdly, we can quickly reduce capital activity and our Singapore business has a high expenditure which was demonstrated in 2013 by our proportion of shipping activity.
new fleet investment being 210 million lower than in 2012.
Given the large depreciation element in the We are sometimes asked whether the drivers of business cost base 273 million in 2013, reducing growth in Power Projects are cyclical or structural.
capital expenditure to a level close to depreciation The answer is that one is affected by the other: the makes the business very cash generative which, in immediate force of the structural drivers is affected turn, reduces debt and interest cost.
In the long-term, the drivers of growth increasing demand for electricity 34 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Another economic factor to consider is the price of Projects business is mainly in US Dollars, so we have fuel, which is usually the single biggest element in the a natural hedge against exchange rate movements.
Over the last few years, That said, most of our customers will be collecting the price of fuel has been fairly stable, with the Brent their revenues in local currency and in countries where 1 Blend price at around $110.
We would not say that in the last year we have seen significant devaluation the oil price staying persistently high has had a direct against the US Dollar, this will be impacting the impact on peoples willingness to rent: people rent affordability of temporary power.
generators because they need power, not because POLITICAL RISK it is a cheap way of generating electricity, however, it is most likely a contributing factor when combined Power Projects with lower levels of economic activity and currency This section should be read in conjunction with the devaluation in certain markets.
The overall impact subsequent section on failure to collect payments.
of the oil-price on our business is that, at times when The Group operates in around 100 countries, many in it has been high it has produced huge wealth in oilAfrica, Asia and Latin America.
In some jurisdictions producing countries which has been re-cycled into there are significant risks of political instability infrastructure investment and this, in turn, stimulated which can result in civil unrest, equipment seizure, demand for our services.
If the oil-price is persistently renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, low by which we mean under $50 per barrel we changes in laws, taxation policies or currency would expect to see an adverse impact on our business restrictions.
Any of these could have a damaging effect in a number of oil-producing countries.
on the profitability of our operations in a country.
Exchange rate fluctuations can have a dual impact Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, we on our performance.
The first impact of exchange carry out a risk assessment process to consider risks to is a direct one when we translate into our reporting our people, to assets and to payments.
By far the greatest currency, Sterling, as the Groups asset values, earnings exposure to political risk is in the Power Projects and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of business.
In all cases, the safety of our employees is currencies owing to the geographic diversity of the always our first concern, and if the level of risk is Groups customers and areas of operation.
Around considered unacceptable we will decline to participate in two thirds of the Groups revenue and costs are any contract: where there are potential risks, we develop denominated in US Dollars: the next largest currency detailed security plans to ensure the safety of our exposures are the Euro and Australian Dollar, both of employees.
In terms of asset risks, the Group uses a wide which account for around 6% and the Brazilian Real range of tools and techniques to manage risk, including which accounts for around 5% of revenue and costs insurances, bonds, guarantees and cash advances.
The relative value of currencies can Projects financial exposures are monitored by the Board fluctuate widely and could have a material impact on on a monthly basis and action plans to address assets, the Groups asset values, costs, earnings, debt levels payments or tax exposures are reviewed.
and cash flows, expressed in Sterling.
We manage the transactional exchange impact through hedging Generally, we find that Governments are keen to and denomination of borrowings but we do not try behave in a fair way to suppliers of critical infrastructure, and manage translational exchange impact.
In the last five years, we have had two of translational exchange, a 5 percentage point incidents, both of which were subsequently resolved, movement in the Sterling Dollar exchange rate would where our equipment was seized by authorities as a result have had an impact in 2013 of around 49 million of tax or import duty disputes.
Neither of these were on revenue and 12 million on trading profit.
With material to a Group of our size, but either could have respect to our other major currencies a 5 percentage been fatal to a small company.
Both are indicative point movement would give rise to a translational of the fact that we operate in countries where the impact in the region of 18 million on revenue and behaviour of the authorities can be unpredictable, 5 million on trading profit.
The second impact of and not always in line with contractual commitments.
exchange rate fluctuations is indirect and mainly impacts our Power Projects business where we tend to transact in US Dollars as the cost base of the Power 1 Bloomberg European Brent Blend Crude Oil spot price per barrel.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The quantum of political risk faced by the business international trade is important to us: at present, has grown in recent years with the rapid expansion we are largely governed by agreements negotiated by of our Power Projects business, but the benefit of scale the EU, which has the heft of being one of the largest is that the risk becomes more diversified.
trading blocs in the world.
We also make extensive use of EU and UK trade promotion.
There is a risk that an Scottish Independence independent Scotland might not be able to continue Apart from the political risk which has always been an in membership of the EU, and that could impact the inherent part of our Power Projects business, we now terms under which we export around the world.
face a new risk: this is the possibility that Scotland, which is where we are headquartered and have our In summary, if Scotland were to leave the United global manufacturing and product development Kingdom and become an independent country, it facility, might separate from the rest of the United would likely burden our UK business with added Kingdom.
Without wanting in any way to enter the operating complexity and cost.
There is also a risk that political debate on this issue, we have a reporting the outcome of the issues of currency and membership responsibility to set out in our Annual Report the of the EU will not be helpful to our business.
At the risks facing the business, and we believe that Scottish very least, if Scotland votes for independence we will Independence could present a number of risks.
face some years of uncertainty and hiatus.
We will, of course, find ways to manage around this challenge At an operational level, it is likely that we would if it arises.
The major impact will be in the UK, which have to deal with significant additional administration accounts for less than 10% of our revenues, and as a cost and complexity in our UK operations, which we global business we will have plenty of options.
currently run as a completely integrated unit, sharing FAILURE TO COLLECT PAYMENTS fleet and people without impediment.
Following OR TO RECOVER ASSETS Independence, our UK business operations would Non-payment is one of the biggest risks the Company have to be split into two separate trading entities, faces.
The vast majority of the contracts into which and every time we moved an item of fleet across the the Group enters are small relative to the size of the border, invoices would have to be raised, and balanceGroup and, if a customer fails to pay a debt, this is sheets adjusted: we would have to account for tax dealt with in the normal course.
However, the Group purposes for our employees days spent either side of has some large contracts in developing countries the border.
Second, we assume that an independent where payment practices can be unpredictable.
The Scottish Government would wish to have its own truth is that, with contracts in around 100 countries, distinctive approaches to the taxes and regulations there are always two or three large customers who are which we currently deal with on a UK level: if misbehaving as far as payment is concerned, and we Scotland were independent there would potentially constantly monitor the risk profile and debtor position be different rates of VAT, personal and corporate tax, of such contracts, deploying a variety of techniques to different approaches to employment rights, pensions mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment.
This and health and safety.
Managing these differences mitigation will vary from customer to customer, but would add complexity and cost to our UK business.
our armoury includes obtaining advance payments, letters of credit, bank guarantees and, in some cases, There are also two major macro-economic risks which insurance against losses.
As a result of the rigorous might affect us.
The first is currency, where it seems approach to risk management, the Group has never that the two options for an independent Scotland are had a significant loss although we have had some very either a currency union with the rest of the UK, or a near misses.
While the scale in our Power Projects separate Scottish currency.
Neither of these options business makes it less likely that any bad debt would are without risk for our business.
be material to the Groups balance sheet, the increased number of contracts and countries in which we operate The second macro-economic risk relates to the increases the likelihood of a loss and makes it highly European Union and the regulation of international likely that, at some stage, a major customer will default trade.
Operating as we do in over 100 countries, and or prevent us from repatriating assets.
with equipment being shipped daily around the world from our factory in Dumbarton, the regulation of 36 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT The risk of non-payment of a receivable presents a to move equipment around the world allows the particular risk for a public company such as Aggreko, Group to adjust to changes in utilisation caused because our customers are rarely attuned to our by any changes in demand.
obligations to update the market regularly on our FAILURE TO CONDUCT BUSINESS DEALINGS performance.
While we seek to ensure that no single WITH INTEGRITY AND HONESTY country could cause the Company material medium Some of the countries in which the Group operates or long-term damage, failure to collect a major debt have a reputation for corruption and, given that many could result in an unexpected, and possibly significant, of our contracts involve large sums of money, we are reduction in our profits in any given reporting period.
at risk of being accused of bribery and other unethical The impact of failure to collect a debt is twofold: behaviour.
The first and most important way of avoiding first we make a provision or write-off the debt, and this risk is to ensure that people, both inside and outside secondly, we lose future revenue and profit.
We the Group, know that Aggreko does not engage in, continually make judgements as to whether we need and will not tolerate, bribery, corruption or unethical to book a provision against particular debts and, if behaviour.
We have a strict Ethics Policy, a copy of the debts are material, they could cause us to miss a which is available on our website www.
forecast and lead to a negative share price reaction.
Rather than just publishing it, we get every employee Unless a customer actually seizes equipment, deciding to sign it when they join the business: every whether a receivable will be collected or not is more consultant acting on our behalf agrees in writing art than science and there have been several occasions to abide by it, and every consultancy or agency when we have had to make difficult judgements as to agreement has an explicit term stating that the when to provide for a debt.
agreement will be terminated immediately if the consultant or agent does not abide by our policy.
We We take a prudent approach to providing for bad have a confidential, multi-lingual hotline, available debt risk, and in 2013 held provisions of 49 million worldwide, which allows any employee who has any against this risk in the Power Projects business.
Even ethical concerns to report them to an independent though we have an ever broader portfolio of contracts, third party on an anonymous basis.
and therefore a more diversified portfolio of risk, we caution investors that the current high returns on While the risk of unethical behaviour can take capital that we earn, particularly in our Power Projects many forms, the most significant risk we run in this business, are in effect risk-unadjusted, although by area is the behaviour of third party sales agents and carrying large provisions we have partly mitigated consultants in our Power Projects business.
Given the this risk by taking a prudent approach to bad debt ephemeral nature of this business there might be provisioning.
So far, no customer has behaved badly no business for us in a country for five years and then enough to cause us a major problem but, as we suddenly a power crisis might present an opportunity repeatedly tell people, it is probably only a matter to supply 100MW for six months it is not practical of time before they do.
to maintain full-time salespeople in each of the EVENTS 150 countries where we do, or could conceivably do, business.
Instead, we make agreements with The business is, by nature, driven by events.
People organisations which know a country well, can keep hire generators because some event or need makes our services on the radar of decision makers, and keep it essential.
Aggrekos revenues, cashflows and profits us briefed on opportunities.
When an opportunity can be influenced significantly by external events as arises, we send in our own salespeople to work with evidenced by the Japanese tsunami or by the contracts them.
These consultants do not get paid a retainer to supply power to the military camps in Afghanistan.
and may receive no compensation other than a thank These events are, by their nature, difficult to predict you and a pat on the back for years: the reason why and, combined with the high operational gearing they are prepared to do this is because when we do inherent in our business, can lead to volatility in win a contract they are well rewarded.
And they work trading outcomes.
By developing the business globally, hard for the money, often taking responsibility for as well as by increasing and broadening the Groups the supply of critical elements of the project such as revenue base, the impact of a single event on the finding power-plant sites, providing administration overall Group will reduce.
Additionally, the ability Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED and technical services, labour and security.
The fact SAFETY that they are only paid on results might be seen to The business of the Group involves transporting, raise the risk that they are tempted to indulge in installing and operating large amounts of heavy bribery to secure their income.
How do we protect equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very against this?
In our view, it is all down to the choice high pressure air and involves the use of millions of of the sales consultant and, to this end, we carry out litres of fuel which could cause serious damage to the comprehensive due diligence on all potential environment.
Every day, we manage the risks associated candidates.
Before we appoint an agent or consultant, with this business, and we have carefully designed we use specialist third-party investigators to conduct procedures to minimise the risk of an accident.
If these comprehensive background checks on them: these procedures are not followed however, accidents can checks include obtaining bank references and searches happen and might result in injury to people, claims for previous records of inappropriate behaviour or of against the Group, damage to its reputation and its any family or other links with the customer or chances of winning and retaining contracts.
Once a sales consultant has been appointed, we keep a close eye on them.
Payments The Group has a proactive operational culture that puts made to agents and sales consultants are subject to health and safety at the top of its agenda in order to audit by internal auditors to ensure they are in reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very accordance with the agreements, and we have a fullclosely with our customers, employees and Health & time Compliance Officer who continuously monitors Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to our dealings with sales consultants and agents.
In ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously addition, we carry out regular training of managers followed.
The Group has developed health and safety and salespeople who deal in at-risk jurisdictions and, KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
from time to time, we conduct independent reviews of contract files.
We also structure our sales consultancy COMPETITION agreements to allow us to terminate any agreement Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
immediately and without compensation in the event The barriers to entry are low, particularly in the Local that we suspect any inappropriate behaviour.
Given business and, in every major market in which we that these sales consultants have much to gain by operate, competitors are constantly entering or leaving working for us, this is a powerful incentive to behave.
We welcome this competition as it keeps us sharp and also helps to grow the overall rental We model our compliance regime around the market which, in many countries, is under-developed.
requirements of the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA.
A subcommittee of We monitor competitor activity carefully but, the main Board was formed in 2011, the Board Ethics ultimately, our only protection from suffering material Committee, which is composed entirely of Nondamage to our business by competitors is to work executive Directors, who meet to approve our relentlessly to provide our customers with a high ethics-related policies and procedures, and the quality and differentiated service proposition at compliance thereof.
A report from the Committee a price that they believe provides good value.
is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts.
38 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY AND PEOPLE EMISSIONS REGULATION Aggreko knows that it is people who make the The majority of Aggrekos fleet is diesel-powered, and difference between great performance and mediocre some of our equipment is over ten years old.
This is true at all levels within the the increasing focus on environmental issues, countries business.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract continue to introduce legislation related to permissible the right people, establish them in their roles and levels of emissions and this has the potential to affect manage their development.
As a framework for people our business.
Our engines are sourced from major development, we have in place a talent management manufacturers who, in turn, have to develop products programme which covers most of the management which conform to legislation, so we are dependent population.
Under this programme, we try to identify on them being able to respond to legislation.
We also the development needs of each individual from the have to be aware that when we buy a generator we outset, as well as identifying successor candidates for want to be able to rent it for its useful life and to be senior roles.
We also have an ongoing relationship able to move it between countries.
with one of the worlds leading business schools, IMD, to deliver a tailor-made Group-wide management To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of education programme.
First, we retain considerable in-house expertise on engine technology and emissions Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our so we have a good understanding of these issues.
For many years, Aggreko has been a Secondly, we have very close relationships with target for recruitment and we manage this on a daily engine manufacturers so we get good forward visibility basis.
We actually regard it as a compliment that so of their product development pipeline.
When new many companies want to recruit our people.
The main products appear particularly those with improved mitigation for this is to make sure that people enjoy emissions performance we aim to introduce them working for Aggreko, that they feel that they are into the fleet as quickly as possible to ensure that, recognised, cared for, and have challenging and over time, our fleet evolves to ever-better levels interesting jobs.
Reward is also an important part of of emissions performance.
An example of this is the equation, and there can be little doubt that our the significant investment we have made in the policy of rewarding people well for good performance, development of our gas-fuelled technology in recent and of having a successful Long-term Incentive Plan, years: these engines have significantly reduced has acted as a powerful retention tool.
emissions compared with other fuel types.
Gas powered generation now accounts for 1,485MW of our fleet, made up of 1,210MW in our Power Projects fleet and 275MW in our Local business fleet.
Thirdly, if emissions-compliance becomes such an issue that it begins to impact our business in a material way in some territories, our global footprint will be a major advantage as it gives us numerous options for the re-deployment of our fleet.
An example of this is in our North American business where, by the end of 2013, around 40% of the fleet is either Tier 3 or Tier 4 compliant, with the previous fleet being re-deployed to other parts of the Group.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
