l Regulatory action a s n n o i o t i a t r c e n Compliance breach p u O f t i d Economy u Product liability a d n a Regulatory requirements s l o r t Environmental incident n o c S e u c p n l p a a Technological developments IT o i i c l r p n t a m f n i u o F n C c C t o i m o p n Supply chain raw materials l i s R&D a, n c p e o Finance report continued Risk management report The governance framework at Elementis is well defined internally.
Twice a year the management team also carries out a more formal risk review.
The Board is responsible for preserving and generating value for The first part of the process requires all sites and functional departments to shareholders, while ensuring that the Groups business activities are complete comprehensive risk assessments that are compiled into risk maps operated in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well and registers which are then reviewed by the business leadership and as in a responsible manner as regards business conduct, ethics and management teams, together with risk scores to estimate the financial impact its health, safety and environmental performance.
to the business and their likelihood of occurrence, as well as the risk controls and mitigation action taken.
The second part is a review of the Groups business The Board defines strategic direction in conjunction with the management continuity plans with scenario testing and training at corporate and site level.
team and monitors the performance of the businesses in all material aspects of their operation, while the management team is responsible for The output from these exercises is shared with the Board.
Management managing all businesses activities and delivery of the Groups strategic reports are also discussed at monthly Board meetings and HSE objectives and annual operating plans.
This requires identifying both performance is reported to the Board on a regular basis.
opportunity and risk and leveraging these to the Groups advantage.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the management team The management of risk is integrated into the general management and approved by the Board are shown in Figure 2 below see also table function which means all layers of management have a responsibility on pages 18 and 19. for identifying, assessing and communicating risk upwards in the chain of management.
To support this approach, the Group has risk Figure 2 shows the major risks to the Group, illustrates which aspects management policies, procedures and controls in place.
The lean of operations they can potentially impact and groups the different risks 1 operational management structure operated, as shown in Figure 1 together using the FIRM risk scorecard approach.
below, ensures this approach is effective.
The risks disclosed are broadly the same as disclosed in previous years, Figure 1 with little change in risk profile and no new material risks identified.
The Group monitors a broad Top 20 risk grouping, analysing the risk profile for each whether it is increasing, decreasing or stable, by reference to probability and severity of impact pre and post mitigation.
The composition of this broad grouping is fairly stable.
Management understands the businesses well and the associated risks and opportunities, although benchmarking and use Board of survey studies are used to retain a fresh perspective.
The risks shown in Figure 2 and the associated mitigation actions Management team were discussed by the management team and reviewed by the Board.
To assist shareholders to understand better how these risks can impact the Group and its businesses, the following commentary is given to Business Operations Director provide further context.
Site management Figure 2 and employees Risks are identified and grouped according to standard classification systems as shown in the table below which also gives examples of different threats within each risk category.
Reputational Risk category Examples of threats Strategic Loss of competitive focus, M&A, R&D or key supply chain failure.
Operational Resource allocation failure, HSE or IT incident.
Financial Credit, liquidity or fraud.
Compliance Breach of laws, operating permits or Group policies.
Hazard Hurricane, typhoon or litigation.
Risk awareness training is an important part of our risk management so that managers in different roles and functions can recognise, identify and communicate risks to the business leadership and management teams.
Financial On a monthly basis, the management team reviews business performance Infrastructure and all material risks to the business and the Groups ability to deliver its Reputation operating plans are discussed.
These risks can be from any of the above Marketplace risk categories.
1 A structural approach to Enterprise Risk Management ERM and the requirements of ISO 31000, AIRMIC, Alarm, IRM, 2010.
16 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 l i Transportation c i Competition e s a HSE n d H a Commercia l disputes p z a r r o d c Financial markets e d u r e Compliance costs s M&A s r e s i v Pensions d a c l i a g n e Tax r t a e r t t x S E Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Safety and environmental compliance is a key priority and, as a chemicals The table below describes risk management responsibilities in the Group.
manufacturer, our facilities are subject to many regulations and managed to an even higher standard.
Of our 18 operating facilities, 5 have achieved Areas of focus ISO 14001 certification, 3 have achieved OSHAs 18001 certification and our other sites are managed to similarly high standards.
An example of where we have gone beyond regulatory requirements is at our principal chromium facility in Castle Hayne, North Carolina, which has achieved the comprehensive performance based criteria to be accredited in the STAR programme.
This accomplishment is the highest recognition level under OSHAs voluntary protection programme, which recognises employees Risk appetite and tolerance and employers who have achieved exemplary occupational safety and health.
Our performance in the Corporate responsibility report shows Risk management culture, that we manage HSE risks to a high standard and this will continue to resources and organisation be one of our main priorities.
Risk communication and identification Supply chain risk is another major focus of the business since the ability Risk assessment and analysis to supply customers can be affected by disruptions due to economic Risk mitigation and control uncertainties or caused by severe weather patterns.
However, we have developed close relationships with our supply chain partners and taken Reporting and monitoring performance action to broaden our supplier base.
For example, in recent years we have Risk assurance broadened the number of chrome ore suppliers to the business.
Another example of risk mitigation concerns our hectorite mine in Southern Reviewing risk management framework California which experienced 2 instances of severe flooding over the Strategic risk past 15 years, the last being in 2005.
2 years ago we installed drainage pumps inside the mine which will help to restore operations more quickly Operational risk and minimise business disruption.
We also maintain strategic holdings of Financial risk key raw materials, such as chrome ore and hectorite clay, and carry business interruption insurance.
Compliance risk The main climate change risks are more frequent and severe hurricanes Hazard risk on the east coast of the US and typhoons in China and Taiwan.
However, Reputational risk our businesses have procedures in place, including implementing a planned shutdown, and business continuity plans are maintained and rehearsed to mitigate the consequences of these events.
An example of a recent event is that our Anji facility in China was impacted by Typhoon Fitow last year which disrupted operations for 3 to 4 weeks.
However, for incidents like this, the Company carries business interruption insurance.
Our flat management structure and holistic approach allow for a high degree of communication and control throughout the organisation.
This Marketplace risks, as shown, cover a wide range of risks.
The risk having multi-purpose, multi-focus business review approach to risk by different the highest potential impact on the Group financially is the economic layers of management is augmented by external support and compliance environment.
However, the Group has a broad geographic presence, audits where appropriate.
For example, our insurance programme mitigating the impact of economic changes in any one country.
One of includes an annual programme of rolling property inspections and our our principal priorities is staying focussed and delivering our customers HSE performance is also subject to periodic external audit by HSE third with tailored differentiated solutions, a strategy that has helped us remain parties.
The Groups internal audit programme is another key aspect of competitive.
This has been boosted by our innovation model which has our compliance monitoring and assurance process, focussing mainly developed products to enable us to reach new customers, markets and on financial, operational and compliance controls.
Major investments and capital expenditure items are subject to authority limits and review by management and the Board.
In terms of keeping the views of our major shareholders under consideration, Elementis has robust procedures in place to ensure Financial and compliance risks are well defined, understood and managed: that the views of shareholders are known.
These include regular further details are described in the Audit Committee report.
management meetings with major shareholders and maintaining a strong flow of information from the Groups corporate brokers to the Our approach to taxation is to ensure that profits are earned in the countries Board, to ensure that market expectations and the views of major in which economic activities are undertaken and that those profits are shareholders and analysts are taken into consideration by the Board properly subject to tax in accordance with the tax legislation which applies when setting priorities.
Two important issues in this regard are executive in each jurisdiction.
We aim to comply fully with the requirements and remuneration and decisions concerning accounting policies and expectations of each of the relevant tax authorities and to ensure that disclosures.
These are more fully explained in the respective reports we deal with these authorities in an open and transparent manner.
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17 Board Management team Business leadership Operational management All employees Finance report continued Risk management report continued Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation 1.
Global economic Sub-optimal global economic Specialty Products is well positioned against a deterioration in economic conditions conditions and conditions can affect sales, due to its balanced geographic footprint, broad differentiated product offering and competitive capacity utilisation and the broad application of its technology across different sectors.
pressure in the cash generation, as well Chromium business model is flexible and can be adapted to respond to variances marketplace.
as increase competitive in regional demand patterns.
pressure in the marketplace, Financial performance including monthly sales, profit and cash flows is closely impacting profitability and monitored with full year forecasts updated three times a year and variances operating margins.
The resultant non-delivery of Contingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented in the event of an operating plans can lead to economic downturn to reduce operating costs, including freezing salaries and market expectations of Group non-essential capital expenditure items.
Organic and acquisitive growth is a priority for the Board and a key area of opportunities focus for the management team.
including Experienced Board and management team, robust due diligence processes acquisitions and support of professional advisers.
and product Capacity expansion programmes are being implemented to ensure the innovation may business can supply to high growth markets.
Regular Board reports on new product pipeline and progress on R&D projects.
Raw materials Disruption to supply Raw materials are sourced from a broad and diverse supplier base.
chain, key raw materials, Strategic holding of key raw materials.
infrastructure eg IT networks Transport and carrier mitigation plans and insurance in place.
or transportation and energy Energy costs are hedged where possible.
price stability can impact capacity utilisation and add to operating costs.
Major regulatory Can lead to higher Active compliance and risk management programmes in place enforcement action, operating costs and including policies, procedures and training.
litigation and or reputational damage.
Insurance programme and risk transfer strategy in place to mitigate other claims arising financial losses.
from products and Experienced General Counsel supported by in-house and external legal teams.
or historical and Regular reviews of litigation and compliance reports by the Board and role of ongoing operations.
the Audit Committee, as well as the internal audit programme, help ensure these key risks are managed effectively.
Volatile financial markets, Pension investment strategy includes significant element of liability matching, poor investment returns and including the use of interest rate and inflation hedging instruments.
increased life expectancy Options for pension fide-risking periodically reviewed.
can all result in higher Deficit funding plan agreed with UK pension scheme trustees through to 2018. funding costs.
18 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Risk Impact Mitigation 6.
Regulation New technology, methods R&D team aims to develop new products and technologies for use in an technological of production or processes evolving market to meet the changing needs of our sophisticated customers.
can give competitors a Active REACh programme in which the businesses participate in industry market advantage.
consortia, providing data and information to regulators and experts, to New regulations restricting support safety reviews of our products in a broad range of applications.
the use or carriage of chemicals can lead to loss of applications and sales and or add to operating costs.
Major event or Such incidents can impact Good housekeeping, preventative maintenance and other safety procedures catastrophe capacity utilisation and add help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
eg IT failure to operating costs.
Reliance on hectorite mine and flood risk mitigated by the installation of or operations drainage pumps at the mine in 2011. incident.
Insurance programme and business continuity plans that are tested regularly help to mitigate the effects of a major incident.
HSE management programme with environmental compliance audits in place.
Major disruption to Volatile financial markets Company was in a net cash position at the year end with extensive borrowing global or regional and or major disruptions to facilities in place, so any impact is unlikely to materially impact on the ability to banking systems.
global or regional banking trade and fund operations.
systems can affect liquidity, Company cash is deposited with a syndicate of banks with high credit the ability to access cash, approval ratings.
make payments and fund Company has a strong unleveraged balance sheet so could raise alternative operations, and lead to sources of funding in emergencies.
Treasury policies implemented and compliance monitored, strong focus on cash management with weekly cash reports so that cash requirements are known in advance.
These principal risks and uncertainties should be read in conjunction with the note on contingent liabilities on page 88.
Brian Taylorson Finance Director 25 February 2014 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 19
