20 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A Risk and Review Committee was established during 2013 BUSINESS REVIEW to review significant prospective commitments and advise the Chief Executive on risks therein.
RISKS AND The Group risk register is reviewed by the Executive Committee every month.
Similarly, at each Board meeting UNCERTAINTIES the Board reviews and discusses the risk register with senior management to ensure that risks are being appropriately identified and actively managed.
Management of risks and uncertainties The Board has articulated EnQuests strategy to deliver Key business risks shareholder value by: The Groups principal risks could lead to a significant loss of ``exploiting its hydrocarbon reserves: reputation or could prevent the business from executing its ``commercialising and developing discoveries: strategy and creating value for shareholders.
``converting its contingent resources into reserves: and ``pursuing selective acquisitions.
Set out below are the principal risks and the mitigations together with an estimate of the potential impact and In pursuit of this strategy, EnQuest has to face and manage likelihood of occurrence after the mitigation actions a variety of risks.
As a result, the Board has established a and how these have changed in the past year.
risk management framework, embedding the principles of effective risk management throughout the business.
RISK MITIGATION Health, safety and environment HSE The Group maintains, in conjunction with its core contractors, a comprehensive programme of health, safety, environmental, asset integrity and assurance activities Oil and gas development, production and and has implemented a continuous improvement programme, promoting a culture exploration activities are complex and HSE risks of transparency in relation to HSE matters.
The Group has established a Corporate cover many areas including major accident HSE committee which meets quarterly.
HSE performance is discussed at each hazards, personal health and safety, compliance Board meeting.
with regulatory requirements and potential environmental harm.
In addition, the Group has a positive, transparent relationship with the UK Health and Safety Executive.
Potential impact Medium 2012 Medium Likelihood Low 2012 Low In March 2013, EnQuest took on the role of duty holder for the Groups operated fields in the North Sea.
This has enabled the implementation of EnQuest HSE principles and There has been no material change in the values across its sites and has improved focus on HSE improvement activities.
As a potential impact or likelihood.
result, the Group has also strengthened its operating, auditing and integrity management capability accordingly.
Production The Groups programme of asset integrity and assurance activities provides leading indicators of significant potential issues which may result in unplanned shutdowns or The Groups production is critical to its success which may in other respects have the potential to undermine asset availability and and is subject to a variety of risks including uptime.
The Group continually assesses the condition of its assets and operates subsurface uncertainties, operating in a difficult extensive maintenance and inspection procedures designed to minimise the risk of environment with mature equipment and unplanned shutdowns and expenditure.
The Group monitors both leading and lagging potential for significant unexpected shutdowns KPIs in relation to its maintenance activities and liaises closely with its downstream and unplanned expenditure to occur and where operators to minimise pipeline and terminal production impacts.
remediation may be dependent on suitable weather conditions offshore.
Life of asset production profiles are audited by independent reserves auditors.
The Group also undertakes regular internal peer reviews.
The Groups forecasts of production Lower than expected reservoir performance may are risked to reflect appropriate production risks.
have a material impact on the Groups results.
The Sullom Voe Terminal has a good safety record and its safety and operational The Groups delivery infrastructure on the UKCS performance levels are regularly monitored and challenged by the Group and other is dependent on the Sullom Voe Terminal.
terminal owners and users to ensure that operational integrity is maintained.
Potential impact High 2012 High Likelihood Low 2012 Low There has been no material change in the potential impact or likelihood.
21 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MITIGATION Project execution The Group has project teams which are responsible for the planning and execution of such new projects with a dedicated team for each development.
The Group has detailed The Groups success will be dependent upon controls, systems and monitoring processes in place to ensure that deadlines are met, bringing new developments, such as Alma Galia costs are controlled and that design concepts and Field Development Plans are adhered and Kraken, to production on budget and on to and implemented.
These are modified when the circumstances require, but only schedule.
To be successful, the Group must through a controlled management of change process and with the necessary internal ensure that project implementation is both timely and external authorisation and communication.
The Group also engages third party and on budget.
Failure to do so may have a assurance experts to review, challenge and, where appropriate, make recommendations material negative impact on the Groups to improve the processes for project management, cost control and governance of performance.
EnQuest ensures that responsibility for delivering time-critical supplier Potential impact High 2012 High obligations and lead times are fully understood, acknowledged and proactively Likelihood Medium 2012 Low managed by the most senior levels within supplier organisations.
The likelihood of occurrence of an event The Alma Galia development is progressing towards first production in H2 2014.
In 2013, impacting project execution will have increased EnQuest announced it had approved additional project scope with the objectives of to an extent by virtue of the commencement of extending the field life, optimising operating costs and enabling a potential second the capital works on Kraken.
However, it should phase development.
The work required to implement these aims continues on the be noted that project execution risk on Alma EnQuest Producer FPSO with the vessel at a finishing yard in the UK for final integration Galia is diminishing as the project works, and commissioning prior to sailaway.
The offshore drilling and completion campaign particularly the FPSO, are coming to an end.
continues with all Alma wells now drilled through the reservoir and two of the six electrical submersible pump completions run.
The piled mooring system and the majority of the subsea construction was completed in 2013 with only final mooring hook-up and riser pull-in to be completed post arrival of the FPSO.
The Kraken development was sanctioned by DECC and EnQuests partners in November 2013.
First oil production is scheduled by 2017.
The development involves the drilling of 25 new subsea horizontal wells which will be connected to an FPSO.
Prior to sanction, EnQuest identified and optimised the development plan using EnQuests preinvestment assurance processes.
Six appraisal wells have been drilled in the area, new seismic data was completed, considerable subsurface modelling was undertaken and FEED studies front end engineering and design were carried out for the FPSO and subsea integrated equipment.
In order to reduce project cost risk, more than 60% of the capital expenditure has been defined by actual tendering and placing of contracts.
The FPSO will involve conversion of an existing tanker which will be under a leased contracting arrangement for a fixed price.
Reserve replacement The Group puts a strong emphasis on subsurface analysis and employs industry leading professionals.
The Group continues to recruit in a variety of technical positions which Failure to develop its contingent and prospective enables it to manage existing assets and evaluate the acquisition of new assets and resources or secure new licences and or asset licences.
All analysis is subject to internal and, where appropriate, external peer review.
acquisitions and realise their expected value.
All reserves are currently externally audited by a Competent Person.
In addition, Potential impact High 2012 High EnQuest has an active business development team both in the UK and internationally Likelihood Low 2012 Low developing a range of opportunities.
There has been no material change in the potential impact or likelihood.
Financial During the year, the Group has refinanced its revolving credit facility with a new larger facility and has issued a retail bond, both of which can be used to fund its development Inability to fund appraisal and development work activities.
This funding is supported by operating cash inflow from the Groups programmes.
The Group reviews its cash flow requirements on an ongoing basis to Potential impact High 2012 High ensure it has suitable resources for its needs.
Likelihood Medium 2012 Medium There has been no material change in the potential impact or likelihood.
For more information visit: www.
com 22 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 BUSINESS REVIEW RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK MITIGATION Human resources The Group has established a competent employee base to execute its principal activities.
In addition to this, the Group regularly monitors the employment market to The Groups success is dependent upon its ability provide remuneration packages, bonus plans and long term share-based incentive plans to attract and retain key personnel and develop that incentivise performance and longer-term commitment to the Group.
organisational capability to deliver strategic growth.
EnQuest is undertaking a number of human resource initiatives to enable the Group to meet its growth aspirations.
These initiatives are part of the overall People and Potential impact Medium 2012 Medium Organisation strategy and have specific themes relating to Organisation, People, Likelihood Low 2012 Low Performance and Culture.
It is a Board-level priority that the Executive and senior There has been no material change in the management have the right mix of skills and experience.
There continues to be a potential impact or likelihood.
significant level of resourcing activity and recruitment, selection strategies and processes have been enhanced to ensure that our workforce is competent.
EnQuests experienced HR department will continue to ensure that key capabilities are in place as the Group grows both in the UKCS and internationally.
The Group also maintains market-competitive contracts with key suppliers to support the execution of work where the necessary skills do not exist within the Groups employee base.
The focus on executive and senior management retention, succession planning and development remains an important priority for the Board and an increasing emphasis will be placed on this as the Group grows.
Reputation Operational activities are conducted in accordance with approved policies, standards and procedures.
Interface agreements are agreed with all core contractors.
The reputational and commercial exposures to a major offshore incident are significant.
The Group undertakes regular audit activities to provide assurance on compliance with established policies, standards and procedures.
Oil price The Group monitors oil price sensitivity relative to its capital commitments and has a policy which allows hedging of up to 75% of its production.
A material decline in oil and gas prices may adversely affect the Groups results of operations In order to develop its resources, the Group needs to be able to fund substantial levels and financial condition.
The Group will therefore regularly review and implement suitable policies to hedge against the possible negative funding impacts of changes in oil prices.
Potential impact High 2012 High Likelihood Low 2012 Low The Group is establishing an in-house trading and marketing function to enable it to enhance its ability to mitigate the exposure to volatility in oil prices.
Political and fiscal It is difficult for the Group to predict the timing or severity of such changes.
However, through Oil & Gas UK and other industry associations the Group does engage with Changes in the regulatory or fiscal environment government and other appropriate organisations in order to ensure the Group is kept affecting the Groups ability to deliver its strategy.
abreast of expected potential changes and takes an active role in making appropriate Potential impact High 2012 Medium representations.
Likelihood Medium 2012 Low At a more operational level, the Group has procedures to identify impending changes in The increase in likelihood and impact reflects the relevant regulations to ensure legislative compliance.
possibility of a change in the regulatory and fiscal In respect of the referendum on Scottish independence, senior management liaises with regimes following the referendum on Scottish Scottish politicians and others to ensure that third parties are aware of EnQuests independence in 2014. trading and investment activities and the importance of the oil industry in general to the local and national economies.
23 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MITIGATION Joint venture partners The Group operates regular cash call and billing arrangements with its co-venturers to mitigate the Groups credit exposure at any one point in time and keeps in regular Failure by joint venture parties to fund their dialogue with each of these parties to ensure payment.
Risk of default is mitigated by obligations.
joint operating agreements allowing the Group to take over any defaulting partys share Dependence on other parties where the Group is in an operated asset.
The Group generally prefers to be the operator.
The Group maintains regular dialogue Potential impact Medium 2012 Medium with its partners to ensure alignment of interests and to maximise the value of joint Likelihood Medium 2012 Medium venture assets.
Competition The Group has a strong balance sheet which puts it in a favourable position to be able to compete effectively and move quickly when looking to acquire assets.
The Group operates in a competitive environment across many areas including the acquisition of oil The Group also has strong technical and business development capabilities to ensure it and gas assets, the marketing of oil and gas, the is well positioned to identify potential acquisition opportunities.
procurement of oil and gas services and access to The Group has good relations with oil and gas service providers and constantly keeps human resources.
Potential impact Medium 2012 Medium Human resources are key to the Groups success and programmes referred to above are Likelihood Low 2012 Low in place to ensure it can attract and retain key personnel.
Acquisitions For all acquisitions, the Group performs extensive due diligence prior to announcing and subsequently completing the acquisition using suitably qualified in-house staff or The Group has been active in acquiring new third party specialists.
In all cases, the Group seeks to mitigate risk in sale and purchase assets.
These have been producing, development agreements by including suitable representations and warranties in the event of issues and exploration assets most of which have been arising post completion.
operated assets, although Alba is not operated by EnQuest.
When evaluating acquisitions, a risk register is prepared and a risk review committee reviews commercial, technical and other business risks together with mitigation and how The businesses of all of these assets are similar to risks can be managed by the business on an ongoing basis.
the Groups existing activities, but there are additional risks associated with acquisitions such EnQuest looks to minimise valuation risk on larger transactions by structuring purchase as the difficulty in valuing assets, assumptions on consideration to include a deferred consideration element contingent upon a future oil price, funding, resourcing new activities and event such as the sanctioning of a future development.
In the case of oil prices, the integration within existing operations.
Group evaluates the value of potential targets at a range of oil prices to ensure that project economics are sufficiently robust.
Potential impact Medium 2012 Low Likelihood Low 2012 Low Once a potential acquisition reaches an advanced stage, the Group develops a takeover plan to determine how the target business can be integrated into the Group.
For The potential impact is higher due to acquisitions operated assets, this will involve identifying key personnel to take on critical positions completed and pending, including Tunisia.
within the target and a plan to embed EnQuest policies and procedures into the newly acquired activity.
Initial funding and funding of subsequent investments are modelled within the Groups internal planning models to ensure satisfactory funds can be made available without adverse effects on the existing funding requirements of the Group or its cost of capital.
International business Prior to entering into a new country, EnQuest evaluates the host country to assess whether there is an adequate and established legal and political framework in place to Whilst the majority of the Groups activities and protect and safeguard first its expatriate and local staff and, second, any investment assets are in the UK, the international business is within the country in question.
The Groups international business is subject to the same risks When evaluating international business risks, a risk register is prepared and a risk review as the UK business e. g. HSE, production and committee reviews commercial, technical and other business risks together with project execution : however, there are additional mitigation and how risks can be managed by the business on an ongoing basis.
risks that the Group faces including security of EnQuest looks to employ suitably qualified host country staff and work with good quality staff and assets, political, foreign exchange and local advisers to ensure it complies within national legislation, business practices and currency control, taxation, legal and regulatory, cultural norms whilst at all times ensuring that staff, contractors and advisers comply cultural and language barriers and corruption.
with EnQuests business principles, including those on fraud and corruption.
Potential impact Medium 2012 Low Where appropriate, the risks may be mitigated by entering a joint venture with partners Likelihood Low 2012 Low with local knowledge and experience.
The potential impact is higher as the international After country entry, EnQuest maintains a dialogue with local and regional government, business is growing.
particularly with those responsible for oil, energy and fiscal matters, and may obtain support from appropriate risk consultancies.
When there is a significant change in the risk to people or assets within a country, the Group takes appropriate action to safeguard people and assets.
