Risks and Uncertainties The Board formally reviews the material risks and ensures that these are appropriately managed by the executive management team.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management framework, including reviewing its effectiveness, however it has delegated responsibility for annually reviewing the overall effectiveness of the risk management programme to the Audit Committee.
The internal audit function provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control procedures through completion of the annual internal audit plan, which takes into account current business risks.
The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and how we mitigate them.
This is not an exhaustive analysis of all the risks the Group may face as there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the Board or have not been included in this section on the basis that they are not considered to be material.
Strategy & business model Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Regulation of the tied pub model On 22 April 2013 the Department for Business, Innovation The Group is committed to the tied pub model and works and Skills BIS issued a consultation paper proposing the closely with a number of stakeholders to support the pub introduction of a Statutory Code the Code and an Independent sector, evolve the tied pub model and ensure it operates Adjudicator for the pubs sector to govern the relationship an appropriate Code of Practice to promote a mutually between large pub companies and their tenants and enforce beneficial relationship with its Publicans.
The Group actively the proposed Code.
engages with the Government, trade bodies and other stakeholders and is participating in the BIS consultation Depending on the outcome of the consultation process, the process.
requirements of the Code, if implemented, could have an impact upon our profitability, our operational strategy and our The outcome of the BIS consultation is still unclear and any relationship with our Publicans.
recommendations could be subject to legal challenge and review.
Depending on the outcome, the Board believes that there are a number of actions it could take to mitigate the financial impact of any proposed changes on the Group.
Licensing and other regulatory factors There is a risk that changes to the regulations relating to the The Group works closely with Local Authorities as sale of alcohol could have an impact on the Groups business necessary to ensure licensing requirements are dealt with and the ability of our Publicans to operate their pubs.
These risks include changes to licensing legislation and The Group is a member of a number of trade bodies and increases to alcohol duties imposed by the Government and associations, is a contributor to the Drinkaware Trust, the impact of social responsibility issues on the industry in and works closely with these organisations to promote general.
Further details can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website at enterpriseinns.
Litigation The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry and may be The Group employs an in-house solicitor and other involved in legal or statutory proceedings in relation to our pubs specialists to ensure we comply with legislation and to or Publicans.
The impact of such litigation may be immaterial in manage any litigation with our Publicans.
value but may result in harm to the Groups reputation.
The Group will work with Local Authorities as necessary whenever any statutory issues are raised in relation to its pub estate.
Where appropriate, the Group takes legal proceedings against Publicans to ensure compliance with their agreements.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 25 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 25 10 12 2013 14:19:59 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and Uncertainties Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes General economic conditions The Groups business operations are sensitive to economic The Group regularly monitors its key income streams and conditions and the continuing economic downturn has had Publicans performance to ensure the Group is competitively an adverse impact on consumer spending.
This has impacted placed in the market, including regularly reviewing financial on the levels of Publican change and Group revenues and forecasts to assess the impact of economic conditions could continue to do so if the downturn persists.
The general on its budget, strategic plans and its Publicans.
Careful economic outlook remains uncertain.
consideration is given to all Publicans requests for additional operational and financial support as well as assessing appropriate investment in the development of our pubs to ensure that we remain competitively placed in the market.
The Group continues to foster mutually beneficial relationships with key suppliers to ensure the impact of any price increases is minimised wherever possible.
Health and Safety A Health and Safety incident could result in a serious injury to The Group has developed an effective Health and Safety the Groups employees, Publicans or their customers.
management system to ensure compliance with all legal duties placed on the organisation by Health and Safety law.
All systems are subject to regular review with training provided as appropriate.
The Group employs a Health and Safety Manager to maintain the Health and Safety management system along with the identification and remediation of specific risks and ensuring employees are aware of regulatory requirements.
The Health and Safety Manager reports to the Board periodically.
The Group operates a Health and Safety Committee system which brings representatives from key areas of the business together to consider all aspects of health and safety and ensure policies, procedures and working practices are suitable and sufficient to control risk within the Group.
The Group operates a Primary Authority Agreement with Westminster City Council.
The purpose of this agreement is to ensure all policies and procedures provide suitable and sufficient control over Health and Safety risks and therefore ensure the Group remains legally compliant.
The Primary Authority team are also tasked with undertaking regular Company-wide audits of the Groups Health and Safety management system.
The audit regime provides a regular independent overview of all health and safety arrangements across the Group and allows for the prioritisation of any further areas of development.
Following the completion of an audit during the year, the Group was found to have achieved legal compliance with all policies and procedures currently in place.
The Group will now focus on delivering additional developments to existing arrangements to exceed industry best practice in this area.
26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 26 10 12 2013 14:19:59 Pub operations Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Employees The Group is reliant on its employees to provide key support The Group is committed to providing appropriate employee functions in order to achieve its strategic aims.
training, retention and reward policies and has attained the prestigious accolade of Champion status for Investors In People.
Supply chain management The Group places reliance on key suppliers and distributors to The Group works closely with its key suppliers and ensure that there is a continuous supply of drinks and other distribution partners to ensure good working relationships, products to its Publicans.
The Group is exposed to interruption as well as taking reasonable steps to try to ensure that key or failure of these key suppliers which could result in such suppliers have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place products not being delivered to Publicans on time.
to maintain continuity of supply.
The Group also has its own contingency plans to minimise the disruption of any external interruption to supply.
During the year there have been two major disruptions to our supply chain, being the collapse of Waverley and the strike at KNDL, which have impacted the business, although on both occasions our contingency plans have successfully managed the situation and minimised the overall impact on the business.
Publicans The Group is reliant on the ability to attract, train and retain The Groups Publican recruitment and training programme the best quality Publicans for its leased and tenanted pubs, and its variety of tenancy and lease agreements are and failure to do this could impact on the Groups strategic designed to attract the best quality people.
industry leading range of flexible agreements, funding options, tailored deals for appropriate applicants and award winning training courses.
Property management Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Property valuations Valuations of the Groups property portfolio have been affected The Group ensures that every pub in its portfolio is valued by general economic conditions and resulting downwards annually at the market value by qualified external and internal pressure on maintainable income streams.
valuers in accordance with RICS Valuation Standards 8th Edition.
These valuations comply with the requirements of These circumstances could continue and therefore reduce the International Financial Reporting Standards.
valuation of the portfolio over time.
There is a risk that changes in the UK property market and general economic conditions We conduct a full estates review on an annual basis could impact on the value of our portfolio and the ability to which allows us to set future strategy for each pub in the dispose of underperforming pubs and the realisations from estate.
This review also guides our investment in capital such disposals.
Property valuations also have an implication for expenditure, allows us to consider possible alternative the overall value of the Group and impact on financial covenants uses or to dispose of those pubs which no longer fit our see section below.
We invested 62 million on developing and improving our pubs during the year.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 27 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 27 10 12 2013 14:19:59 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and Uncertainties Capital structure Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Liquidity risk The Group has a flexible financing structure comprising bonds The Board regularly reviews detailed financial forecasts issued from the Unique securitisation securitised bonds, to ensure there is sufficient cash available to meet the corporate bonds issued by Enterprise Inns plc Enterprise requirements of the Group.
These reviews include the corporate bonds and bank borrowings.
ability to meet restricted payment conditions in the securitised bonds in order that cash can be released by the At the year end, committed bank facilities of 99 million were payment of dividends through the securitisation structure undrawn and a liquidity facility of 190 million is in place in to Enterprise Inns plc.
respect of the securitised bonds.
There are a number of options available to the Group to The 60 million debenture matures in February 2014 and in the manage its commitments and to reduce debt, including medium-term a further 600 million of corporate bonds mature the disposal of pubs, reducing capital expenditure on the in 2018. estate as well as raising new capital through the bank facility or issuing new corporate bonds.
The primary liquidity risk is the requirement to meet all on-going finance costs, repay the principle amounts of the structured The Board initiated a debt reduction programme in 2008, borrowing as it amortises and ensure there are sufficient which is on-going, successfully generating 150 million of funding facilities in place to enable the business to meet all net proceeds from pub disposals in the year.
cash flow requirements as they fall due.
The existing bank facilities were renegotiated in 2012, with a new forward start bank facility commencing in December 2013, and a new unsecured, convertible bond was issued in the year raising gross proceeds of 97 million.
Based on all of these factors the Board is comfortable that there is sufficient headroom to meet the liquidity requirements of the Group, including the ability to repay the 60 million debenture in February 2014 from existing cash and available facilities.
Financial covenants risk There is a risk that the Group could breach the financial Throughout the year the Group tests all of the financial covenants that relate to the financing structure of the Group.
covenants and forecasts are prepared during the budgeting process.
The Board regularly reviews detailed financial There are two covenants that relate to the Unique securitisation forecasts of the Group to ensure there is sufficient which are tested at each quarter end and are based solely on headroom on all covenants.
the assets held within the Unique securitisation.
There is a net asset covenant and a debt service cover covenant.
The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures which are reported to debt providers on a quarterly basis.
There are two covenants that relate to the corporate bonds: an asset value covenant and a net annual income covenant.
At the The covenant valuation is completed by a firm of independent year end there is an annual valuation of the pub estate and a chartered surveyors and the directors certify the net annual review of the annual income for the pubs secured under each income as part of an annual compliance exercise.
If any of of the Enterprise corporate bonds.
the bonds require the substitution or addition of pubs to their security, this is carried out promptly in the relevant In the event that pub values or pub incomes have fallen there period, in accordance with the covenant requirements and may be a requirement to add more pubs to the security of in conjunction with the Trustees.
the corporate bonds and any addition of new pubs must be completed within 90 days of the year end.
When new financing is agreed, the Board reviews a wide range of financial forecasts to ensure that there is sufficient There are four covenants that relate to the bank debt, which headroom on all covenants throughout the period of the are tested quarterly.
There are two leverage covenants and two new facilities.
The Board is satisfied that there is sufficient headroom on all financial covenants.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates in respect The Group manages its cash flow to minimise the variable of the drawn bank borrowings of 81 million.
All other debt is rate interest borrowing at any one time.
28 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
indd 28 10 12 2013 14:19:59 Information technology Risks and uncertainties Mitigation processes Systems failure The Groups daily operations are reliant on its information A business continuity plan is in place to ensure the business technology systems for accounting, reporting and could continue to function in the event of a major systems communication.
There is a risk that serious disruption could failure.
This plan is regularly tested.
result if these systems fail for an extended period of time.
There are comprehensive controls in place to protect information technology systems, including anti-viral software and the back up and off-site storage of data.
System enhancements Any major changes to systems, such as an upgrade to existing The planning of IT resources, including the prioritisation systems or any new implementations, could have a significant and timetable for the implementation of change projects impact on the running of the business.
is reviewed regularly by the IT Steering Committee, which regularly reports to the Executive Committee.
All changes are carefully managed through internal IT resource or with the assistance of external IT advisers to ensure it is all fully planned, built and tested before being put into a live environment to impact other systems or key processes in the business.
Cyber risk Increasing levels of cyber-crime represent a threat to every The threats facing IT are regularly monitored as part of business with the potential to cause a loss of system availability, the on-going review by the IT Steering Committee, which which could have a consequential financial loss.
regularly reports to the Executive Committee.
IT disaster recovery and business continuity plans exist and are tested regularly to ensure the business could continue to function in the event of a major systems failure.
There are comprehensive controls in place to protect IT systems, including anti-viral software and the back up and off-site storage of data.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic Report, outlined on pages 02 to 29, incorporates the Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Strategic Review, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board L T ogher Company Secretary 18 November 2013 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 29 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 29 10 12 2013 14:19:59 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
