Essar Energy plc 34 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Effective risk management is integral to delivering our strategic goals, whilst protecting our reputation and shareholder value.
The risk Further details of the procedures Our approach to risk management register is formally reviewed by the Board undertaken by the Board of Essar Energy The overall responsibility for risk management, and determination of on a half-yearly basis to monitor principal and its Committees are set out in the appetite to undertake activities subject risks and the strategies deployed to Governance Framework on pages 56 torisk and uncertainty, resides with the mitigate them.
However, given management of risks takes place on a the nature of our business, the Boards monthly basis at business review As in any business, there may be ofour divisions and key management meetings where the Chief Executive unforeseen issues which could impact personnel across the Company play an Officer of Essar Energy discusses key the Companys ability to achieve its important part in managing and developments and new risks arising objectives in the future.
within the underlying business divisions.
believe the Groups risk management Similarly, the key developments in risks process makes this less likely.
The key The Company has established formal impacting the Company at a corporate risks set out below are those which we policies to promote an environment of level are discussed at each Board believe have the greatest potential to good governance and robust risk meeting.
The Audit Committee is also impact our ability to achieve the Groups management.
The Board has established charged with monitoring effective strategic objectives.
a risk register that identifies strategic risks implementation of controls across the together with financial, operational and business divisions that specifically compliance risks.
The register includes impactfinancial risks.
adescription of the nature, extent and implication of the risks together with the Group-wide risks Funding requirements for future operations and growth Description impact The Group operates in a capital intensive industry and has power sector environment, at the current time fund raising significant financing requirements.
This requires continued remains challenging.
The Company requires funding to cover access to commercial banking facilities, capital markets and the cost of overruns on certain power projects and ensure maintenance of short-term working capital funding.
Within the sufficient liquidity within the Power business.
Mitigation `` Historically, the Group has successfully rolled over facilities `` Essar Power has secured a credit rating to raise up to inline with market practice and retains good banking US$909 million Rs.
50 billion of bond finance in the domestic relationships.
The proceeds of the bonds, to be raised in a `` During the year the Group has successfully signed a variety number of tranches, will be used to prepay existing credit of facilities which are outlined in the Financial review liquidity facilities on the Mahan and Salaya projects until the project section on page 47. cash flows can be fully stabilised.
`` Essar Oil UKs new arrangements with Barclays Bank `` As set out in the capital and liquidity section on page 47, the allowed Essar Oil UK to repay its existing working capital Group is also working on long-term funding arrangements revolving credit facility, to reduce its costs by reducing its tofurther strengthen liquidity and reduce interest cost.
crude oil inventory holdings and also permit greater operational flexibility.
`` Within Essar Power, efforts are underway to secure a facility for development of the Aries coal mine in Indonesia.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 35 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Compliance with regulation and obtaining licences and permits Description impact All of the Groups operations are extensively regulated and The failure to obtain or comply with the terms of such permits thedelivery of our strategy is dependent on obtaining the and approvals would prevent the Group from achieving its appropriate permits, approvals and licences to complete and targets and could ultimately lead to the impairment of assets.
Mitigation `` The Group closely monitors compliance with regulatory `` To further strengthen the framework for regulatory requirements across its business, and heads of each compliance, the Oil and Gas and Power businesses have business division and operations confirm compliance with recently embarked upon the implementation of compliance allapplicable laws and regulations on a quarterly basis.
systems which would enable key stakeholders to jointly `` The need for permits, approvals and licences for expansion review the status of key compliance requirements and projects is assessed prior to undertaking any works or clearances required for timely project execution.
The ability to obtain the necessary regulatory activities and action plans including matters requiring approvals to successfully deliver our strategic goals on time management attention and decision making are reviewed is largely out of the control of our Senior Management.
However, Essar Energy continues to have a successful working relationship with national, state and local authorities and expects to obtain all necessary approvals.
Failure to conduct business with integrity and honesty Description impact Some of the countries in which the Group operates have a The Company has in place a strict anti-corruption policy which reputation for corruption and, given that many of our contracts has been rolled out across all areas of operations including the involve large sums of money, we are at risk of being accused key decision making personnel at various sites.
ofbribery and other unethical behaviour.
The first and most important way of avoiding this risk is to ensure that people, bothinside and outside the Group, know that Essar Energy doesnot engage in, and will not tolerate, bribery, corruption orunethical behaviour.
Mitigation `` In addition, we carry out regular training of managers and sales people who deal in at-risk jurisdictions and, from time to time, we conduct independent reviews of contract files.
We model our compliance regime around the requirements of the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Our ability to complete major projects on time and within budget Description impact The Group is reliant on the completion of major projects to If projects are not executed on time and to budget, the planned maintain its projected growth levels.
In particular, there is a need growth and profitability of the Group will not be achieved.
to ensure projects are managed on time, including the delivery Obtaining finance for major projects is a significant challenge by contractors and suppliers, and within budget using efficient forthe Group.
technologies to achieve the required specifications.
Mitigation `` Progress on all major projects is monitored on a monthly `` As the Group has successfully completed projects such basis by the relevant project managers at the PRMs.
Critical asthe Vadinar refinery and Salaya II, this risk will reduce issues are also discussed at business review meetings.
`` The Group has contracted the management and construction of major projects to specialist expert project management and EPC contractors who are related parties.
The risk of overruns is further mitigated through entering turnkey contracts with these contractors and suppliers.
Essar Energy plc 36 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Credit risk Description impact Due to the nature of the Group and its business, the Group is exposed to significant receivable credit risk through third party andrelated party transactions.
Mitigation `` All receivables, including dues from related parties, `` The Group seeks to negotiate with the counterparty in aremonitored closely to ensure appropriate provisioning consultation with its legal advisers and, despite the age of ifrequired.
some of these receivables, does not consider these to be irrecoverable and over the FY2013 there has not been a significant change in credit quality of these debtors.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates Description impact The price of feedstock, natural gas, and imported coal needed assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of its subsidiaries are to run the Groups power operations and crude oil required for denominated in currencies other than the US dollar.
Depreciation the production of refined petroleum products are generally in the Indian Rupee against the US dollar has resulted in an denominated in, or tied to, the US dollar.
increase in project costs of ongoing power projects.
The Groups presentational currency is the US dollar while some of its subsidiaries have currencies other than the US dollar as their functional currency.
Therefore, it faces translation risk to the extent Mitigation `` Each business division enters into forward foreign exchange `` As outlined in the Operating review, Essar Oil has sought, contracts to cover foreign currency payments and receipts, where possible, to dollarise its Rupee debt to reduce currency aswell as to manage foreign exchange risks associated exposures but which will also have the effect of reducing its withanticipated sales, purchase and borrowings in interest costs and extending repayment terms.
`` In addition, the Group has taken forward cover of US$2,601.0 `` The businesses monitor the level of exposure to foreign million 2012: US$1,038.9 million to hedge currency risk against exchange rate fluctuations and makes recommendations movement in INR US dollar.
Challenging business environment Description impact Within the Companys Oil business, product refining margins areunder severe pressure and exposed to market volatility.
Availability of fuel for power plants is challenging the Groups ability to operate its power plants profitably.
Mitigation `` Improve operating efficiencies aimed at margin `` Constantly evaluate the macro economic scenario through enhancements e. g. diversifying the crude basket and sensitivity analysis and realign the strategy to meet business crossfunctional integration of businesses.
priorities e. g. decision to defer certain power projects until certain milestones are achieved.
`` Secure alternative channels for fuel supplies.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 37 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Reliance on Essar Global Fund and affiliated Essar companies as major suppliers and customers andmanaging conflicts of interest Description impact The Power business, in particular, is dependent on other Essar Group companies as major suppliers and customers.
The loss of this relationship could have a significant impact on the Groups continued success.
In addition, as the controlling shareholder, Essar Global Fund may have conflicting interests with the Company.
Mitigation `` The Group has a close working relationship with Essar.
`` Further information on the related party contracts as at Thereare also long-term contractual arrangements with 31March 2013 is outlined on pages 124 to 128 and the other Essar companies to ensure the Companys interests Relationship Agreement with Essar Global Fund is outlined remain protected.
The Group has robust processes for onpage 139. entering into transactions with affiliated companies on an arms length basis.
Commercial and reputational damage as a result of a Health, Safety or Environmental incident orconflicts with local communities Description impact The Group is at risk of commercial and reputational damage as The loss of confidence that any incident might create could have aresult of a health, safety or environmental incident given the an adverse effect on the overall valuation of the Group and its nature of its operations.
Further, relationships built with local ability to work effectively with local and national authorities.
communities in locations where the Company operates need tobe maintained to avoid any operational disruptions.
Mitigation `` The Group has a formal HSE policy with related HSE `` Tools are in place to monitor emissions from plants and management systems in place.
These are communicated to refineries.
Medical expertise and support is available at the relevant businesses and employees with training alllocations.
`` The Group works closely with local communities to maintain `` Regular reviews are carried out of compliance with the HSE relationships and to ensure that concerns are heard and acted policy and related HSE management systems as well as upon on a timely basis.
The HSE Committee reports directly to the Board, which ultimately monitors the effectiveness of various policies and systems.
`` The results of safety and other inspections of the Companys power plants and refineries are frequently reviewed by the Groups senior management to assess the actions taken to close the gaps.
Essar Energy plc 38 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Principal risks and uncertainties Failure to maintain the repayment schedule of the sales tax liability Description impact As outlined previously, the Companys subsidiary Essar Oil Essar Oil has secured a loan facility from Indian lenders of became liable to pay back to the Government of Gujarat the approximately US$949 million which can be drawn on as amount of tax aggregating c. US$1,171 million.
To date, Essar Oil required to meet the sales tax liability.
has repaid approximately US$190 million.
On 13 September 2012, Essar Oil was ordered to repay the remaining c. US$980 million sales tax balance owed in eight quarterly instalments, along with interest, beginning on 2 January 2013.
Essar Oil was also directed to pay interest from 17 January 2012 at the rate of 10% pa on the outstanding amount due.
Mitigation `` As at the date of publication of the FY2013 Annual Report, `` The Board monitors this situation in order to ensure that this Essar Oil had paid two out of the eight quarterly instalments issue is carefully managed and that the Groups overall debt as aforesaid.
The remaining six instalments will also be paid position is carefully monitored and that all financial covenants as and when they fall due, in line with the agreed repayment are maintained.
Oil and Gas business risks Inability to achieve the planned GRMs Description impact The Oil and Gas business is dependent on the margin between Whilst refined product normally tracks changes in feedstock crude oil prices and refined petroleum product prices to maintain prices, there is normally a lag which could seriously impact profitability.
Operating efficiency and access to crude oil of the short-term working capital and profitability.
required quantity, quality and price has a significant impact on the Companys performance.
Mitigation `` The Oil and Gas business uses long-term contracts as `` Essar Oil and Essar Oil UK each have a risk management wellas open international markets to source crude oil at committee which meets weekly to take decisions on competitive prices.
Management prepares four month rolling commodity hedging.
plans on a weekly basis to identify any changes in risk profile and take appropriate action on a timely basis.
Breach of sanctions on Iranian crude Description impact Before the refinery expansion and upgrade, the Group has met Recent tightening of sanctions on Iranian crude could impact c. 33% of its overall crude requirements from Iranian suppliers.
continuity of crude supplies and consequently the achievement of planned GRMs.
Mitigation `` The Group has re-evaluated its crude procurement strategy `` The refinery upgrade in complexity has led to an increase in in light of recent narrowing of international sanctions on the sourcing of ultra-heavy crudes from Latin America, thereby imports of Iranian crude.
significantly reducing the refinerys reliance on Iranian crude.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 39 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Power business risks Coal availability and logistical challenges associated with coaltransportation Description impact The Groups Power business is significantly increasing its Changes in regulatory requirements relating to coal access coal-fired generation capacity.
Delays to the start of mining pricing e. g. Indonesia have resulted in higher overall fuel costs.
activities within the allocated coal blocks due to regulatory clearances in both India and overseas has resulted in the Group The recent investigation in the Supreme Court of the allocation of having to seek alternative coal sourcing arrangements with a coal blocks whilst not directly affecting the Group could have an potential impact on profitability.
Mitigation `` Essar Power continually works to secure approvals and `` Essar Power continually ensures compliance with the clearances for the development of its coal blocks.
conditions contained within individual licenses and is mindful `` Essar Power has also developed road infrastructure to of the importance of complying with national and local overcome the logistical challenges associated with legislation and standards.
transportation of coal procured through e-auction `` The Group maintains an open and proactive relationship with andimports.
the Indian Government and its various agencies.
`` Further, Essar Power has set up a coal trading desk to manage both domestic and imported coal procurement across projects.
The Group is proactively taking steps to seek enhancements in tariffs under PPAs.
Reliance on a few major customers Description impact The Power business supplies to a small number of large The Company has in the past experienced payment difficulties customers under PPAs.
In particular, there is a significant for services provided to GUVNL, which if continued could have relationship with GUVNL in respect of the provision of power.
asignificant impact on the Companys results.
There is also an ongoing litigation case with GUVNL, which may result in financiallosses.
Mitigation `` The litigation with GUVNL continues to be ongoing at the date `` The Group has tight monitoring controls over receipt of of this report.
To date, the court rulings have been largely in overdue amounts from customers and litigation is favour of the Company and the Board consider the need for undertaken where necessary.
appropriate provisions at financial reporting period end.
Inability to achieve tariff increases Description impact The Groups power plants derive their revenue from the Group Contracts with customers may impose restrictions on the captive model, selling power to captive consumers and partly Companys ability to, amongst other things, increase prices selling on short-term, medium-term, or long-term sale basis atshort notice and undertake expansion initiatives with andwould, for this purpose, enter into PPAs with counterparties othercustomers.
such as captive consumers, power trading companies and stateutilities.
This could affect the revenue in the short to medium-term.
Mitigation `` Review contracts periodically to obtain best possible tariffs.
`` Benchmarking captive consumer prices to state utility prices `` Flexibility to sell to captive consumers or in the open market.
to benefit from any price increases.
