26 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview Protecting our business Risk management is an essential element of how we run our business to help achieve long-term shareholder value and protect our business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
Risk management is central to how we Our approach to risk management aims Through its execution, the framework run our business and is fundamental to identify risks as early as possible and enables management to demonstrate to how we create value and deliver to either remove those risks or reduce a responsible and proactive embedded substantial returns to shareholders.
that risk to an acceptable level.
In doing so, the main functions of the Board are Risk management operates at all Our risk management framework supported by identifying and managing levels throughout our organisation, provides a structured and consistent risk in alignment with our strategic across geographies, business lines and process for identifying, assessing, objectives, risk appetite, corporate operational support functions.
responsibility strategy and the long-term drivers in the business.
PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS TONE AT THE TOP Sustaining BUSINESS STRATEGY a culture of integrity and ethical values Commitment to New customer RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK maintaining a segments strong risk and control culture Commitment to Expanding Identify Evaluate risks in the Respond Communicate Monitor competency geographically risks context of the current to risks control environment Product innovation Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 27 WHAT ARE THE PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK?
Defined governance structure and Standardised process to identify, evaluate and Regional risk management committees commitment by the Board and management manage significant risks on an ongoing basis with local oversight of risk management towards integrity, risk ownership and Identify, Evaluate and Respond.
commitment to competent leadership Tone at the Top.
Defined and communicated business Control reviews and follow-ups performed by Executive Risk Management Committee principles and strategies management, internal audit and third parties with global oversight of risk management Business Strategy.
Clear global, regional and line of business Budgetary controls and monthly performance Regular reporting on risk to the Audit objectives, supported by financial and nonreviews, including achievement of objectives and Committee by senior management financial key performance indicators KPIs KPIs Monitor.
and regular risk updates to the Board Business Strategy.
WHAT DOES THE CONTROL ENVIRONMENT LOOK LIKE?
Terms of reference for the Board and each of Principles, policies and standards including All significant business investments, its committees, which are regularly reviewed.
a global risk management policy, compliance developments and divestments are policy, accounting policies, treasury policy, reviewed by Regional and Global Strategic information security policy and a policy on fraud Project Committees.
Clear organisational structure directed by the Defined and well-understood review and approval Establishment of strategies to manage global and regional delegated authorities procedures for major transactions, capital each identified significant risk including matrices.
the establishment of internal controls, insurance and specialised treasury instruments.
HOW DO WE COMMUNICATE RISK AND CONTROL RESULTS?
Monthly finance reports to the Board Quarterly Regional and Executive Risk Regular reports to the Audit Committee including Group financial summary, Group Management Committee reports highlighting the by the Head of Global Internal Audit on results, forecasts and sales trends, investor status of principal and emerging risks along with the results of investigations initiated relations analysis and detailed business the status of significant projects that promote the through fraud and whistleblowing trading summaries.
procedures that allow employees to report suspected improprieties.
Monthly detailed performance reviews at a Quarterly Audit Committee reports highlighting regional level.
the status of principal and emerging risks along with the status of significant strategic projects and other material investments that promote Experians strategic objectives.
Board approval of Group strategy and Ongoing identification and escalation Experians internal audit function budgets and ongoing Board monitoring of of accepted, new and emerging risks to performs independent testing and reports performance against the agreed plan.
management and the Board consistent with the to the Audit Committee on the adequacy global risk management policy.
and effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Achievement of business objectives, both Ongoing business unit risk management within A variety of reports on risk, including financial and non-financial, using a range of established exposure limits and escalation of material risk reports, material litigation monthly KPIs.
identified risks and control weaknesses or gaps reports, information security reports and consistent with the global risk management regulatory and compliance reports are policy.
reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Regular reporting to the Board of the exercise Annual certification by each business and key The Audit Committee performs an annual of the delegations of authorities to the function leader to confirm compliance with review of the effectiveness of Experians principal subsidiaries.
Experians system of internal control, policies, systems of risk management and internal and corporate governance and corporate control and receives an annual report on responsibility processes.
the controls over relevant risks.
The internal audit programme and methodology is aligned to the risk categories and makes use of risk assessment information at a business level in planning and conducting its audits.
28 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview WHAT ADDITIONAL INTERNAL CONTROLS SUPPORT FINANCIAL REPORTING?
Detailed policies and procedures are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
A comprehensive Group Accounting Manual GAM, including details of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS requirements, is in place.
The document is owned by the Groups finance team and has been rolled out across the Group.
All Experian companies are obliged to follow the requirements of the GAM.
The aims of the GAM are to: provide guidance on accounting issues: allow provide uniform measures for quantitative and increase the efficiency of the Groups for consistent and well-defined information qualitative measures of Group performance: and reporting process.
for IFRS reporting requirements: What are the risks and uncertainties?
PRINCIPAL RISKS Throughout the year we have critically reviewed and evaluated the risks Experian faces.
Our assessment of the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact Experians long-term performance is outlined in this section of the report.
These risks are not set out in any order or priority and they do not comprise all the risks and uncertainties we face.
This list is not exhaustive and it is likely to change as some risks assume greater importance than others during the course of the year.
LOSS OR INAPPROPRIATE USAGE OF DATA Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT, employee engagement Experian owns and or processes a large amount of highly sensitive Stable and general litigation trends and confidential consumer information including financial information, 2013 update personally identifiable information and protected health information.
Data Strategic alignment Several highly publicised data security and integrity are critically important to Experians business.
CyberNew customer segments security breaches at other companies attacks and other breaches of security, lost, misappropriated or misused have heightened consumer Expanding geographically data or the perception that confidential information is not secure may result awareness of this issue.
We continue in a material loss of business, substantial legal liability or significant harm to Product innovation to invest in IT security solutions, and our reputation.
Our partners or third-party contractors may also experience execute a sound security strategy Further information security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our data and that allows for layered protections Corporate responsibility other proprietary information.
section use and protect How we manage this risk data properly We maintain physical security measures, technical controls and contractual precautions to identify, detect and prevent the unauthorised access of our data.
DEPENDENCE UPON THIRD PARTIES TO PROVIDE DATA AND CERTAIN OPERATIONAL SERVICES Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT and total revenue Our business model is dependent upon third parties to provide data, Stable growth intellectual property and certain operational services service providers, the 2013 update loss of which could significantly impact the quality of, and demand for, our Strategic alignment We continue to enter into long-term products.
We rely upon data and services from external sources, including New customer segments contracts with data providers as well customers, strategic partners and various government and public record as securing access to data sources Expanding geographically services.
Our service providers could withhold their data and terminate through acquisitions.
We analyse the services for a variety of reasons.
If certain key service providers were to Product innovation data to make sure we are receiving terminate or be unable to provide their data and services, our ability to the best value and highest quality.
provide our products and services could be impacted, and in some cases result in us being unable to offer services, which may have a materially adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results.
Similarly, if one of our service providers, including third parties with whom we have strategic relationships, were to experience financial and or operational difficulties, their services to us may suffer or they may no longer be able to provide services to us at all.
This could have a significant impact on the delivery of our products and or services, which may have a materially adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results.
How we manage this risk Service providers are covered by legal contracts that contain appropriate terms to ensure that the service providers have the right to provide Experian with the data and services for the required purpose.
Our global strategic sourcing activities support the selection and negotiation of agreements with a diverse network of service providers based on criteria such as delivery assurance and reliability in order to minimise potential disruptions.
There are a variety of protections relating to critical service provider relationships.
For instance, there are contractual requirements to maintain appropriate business continuity arrangements that we have the right to audit, long-term agreements, adequate notice provisions for termination and or renegotiation of terms, and economic incentives to continue mutually advantageous relationships.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 29 EXPOSURE TO LEGISLATION OR REGULATORY REFORMS Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT and ROCE Legislative, regulatory and judicial systems in the countries in which we Increasing risk operate are responding to public concerns about how consumer information Strategic alignment 2013 update is collected and used for marketing, risk management and fraud detection Expanding geographically A revision of the 1995 European purposes.
These concerns may result in new laws, regulations and Union Data Protection Directive Product innovation enforcement practices, or pressure upon industries to adopt new procedures is currently being considered by or self-regulation.
Some potential changes, especially due to increased European legislatures.
The revision examination oversight by regulators, could adversely affect our ability to may include more stringent operating undertake these activities in a cost-effective manner or could reduce revenue requirements for data processors resulting from modified business practices.
Regulatory oversight of data and significant penalties for nonsecurity processes and policies is particularly acute.
subject to changes in specific countries tax laws.
Our future effective tax In the US and certain Latin American rates may be adversely affected by changes in tax laws.
countries, legislation regarding the How we manage this risk availability or use of consumer and We continue to educate lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy commercial data continues to be advocates, industry trade groups and other stakeholders in the public policy discussed.
We have launched specific programmes to manage increased in some cases had the potential examination oversight.
We also retain internal and external tax professionals to expand the availability or uses that monitor the likelihood of future tax changes.
These risks are generally of information and in other cases outside our control.
have the potential to restrict the availability or use of information we currently maintain.
Regulators and legislators have opened inquiries into our operations as a marketing data broker, but it is uncertain whether new laws will be adopted.
More likely, self-regulatory systems will need to be enhanced.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT and general litigation We must monitor and comply with international, federal, regional, provincial, Increasing risk trends state and other jurisdictional regulations and best practice, including but 2013 update not limited to privacy, consumer data protection, health and safety, tax, Strategic alignment The new Consumer Financial labour, environmental, anti-corruption and information security laws.
These Expanding geographically Protection Bureau CFPB regulations differ from region to region, are complex, change frequently, commenced regulatory oversight of Product innovation may be inconsistently applied and interpreted and have tended to become our US Credit Services businesses more stringent over time.
We have in the past and may be required to incur in September 2012.
The CFPB is significant expenses to comply with these regulations.
Any failure by us to the US federal agency that holds comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation primary responsibility for regulating of operations or portions of operations or impositions of fines and restrictions consumer protection with regards to on our ability to carry on or expand our operations.
In How we manage this risk this role, the CFPB has the authority Our regulatory compliance departments work closely with our businesses to to write and enforce rules, conduct identify and adopt strategies to help ensure compliance with jurisdictional examinations, and collect and track regulations and identified business ethics that include active monitoring of consumer complaints.
our collection and use of personal data.
To the best of our knowledge, we are in compliance with data protection requirements in each jurisdiction in which we operate.
PRODUCT SERVICE OR TECHNOLOGY OBSOLESCENCE Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT and ROCE The markets for our products and services are characterised by technological Stable changes, frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry Strategic alignment 2013 update standards.
Advances in technology may result in changing consumer Product innovation We continue to invest strongly in preferences for products, services and delivery formats and any such change new data sources and new analytical Further information in preference can be rapid.
In order to keep pace with customer demands products, together with the platforms Business overview for increasingly sophisticated service offerings, to sustain expansion into that support their worldwide delivery.
section examples of growth industries and to maintain its profitability, we must continue to Over 10% of our revenues come how businesses are innovate and introduce new products and services to the market.
Without from new products developed in the delivering innovative continued investment in our technology infrastructure, we may not be able past five years.
In addition, 20% of solutions to support changes in the way our businesses and customers use and our global costs are in information purchase information.
Our strategy for technology and data.
growth section How we manage this risk examples of product Product innovation is a key driver of growth for us in all our markets.
innovation Detailed competitive and market analyses are performed that provide the foundation of a rigorous product and services investment identification and Business overview selection process.
section discussion of how we extend our global lead through product innovation 30 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview INTERRUPTIONS IN BUSINESS PROCESSES OR SYSTEMS Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT and total revenue Our ability to provide reliable services largely depends on the efficient Stable growth and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems, data and 2013 update call centres, as well as maintaining sufficient staffing levels.
Our systems, Strategic alignment Continuity of services is a core focus personnel and operations could be exposed to damage, interruption and Product innovation and built into the development of pandemic outbreaks if we do not have sufficient redundant operations to new and existing products.
While cover a loss of personnel or failure of our systems in a timely manner.
Any we experienced limited disruptions significant failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our during the fiscal year, events such business, results of operations and financial condition.
as the London 2012 Olympics and How we manage this risk Hurricane Sandy along the US We have strict standards, procedures and training programmes for eastern seaboard provided real-time physical security along with comprehensive business continuity plans and validation of established plans and incident management programmes.
We maintain full duplication of all processes.
We continue to execute information contained in databases and run back-up data centres.
Support periodic exercises to ensure that arrangements, strict standards, procedures and training schemes for documented procedures are accurate business continuity have been established with third party vendors.
We also and suitable for each specific monitor potential pandemic threats and adjust action plans.
DEPENDENCE ON RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF HIGHLY SKILLED PERSONNEL Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 Employee engagement Our ability to meet the demands of the market and compete effectively with Stable other information technology suppliers is, to a large extent, dependent on Strategic alignment 2013 update the skills, experience and performance of our personnel.
Demand is high for New customer segments The results of our 2012 global pulse individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience in the information survey show consistent overall Expanding geographically technology and business services market.
We may not be able to hire and improvement in the degree of retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with its compensation Product innovation employee engagement, as well as structure.
Some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive terms general satisfaction and involvement Further information of employment and they may seek to hire our existing personnel.
Separately, approximately Our people section to attract, motivate or retain key talent could have a material adverse effect on 52% of our senior leadership roles have our ability to service client commitments and grow their business.
Corporate responsibility successors ready to cover these roles section be a good How we manage this risk in the short and medium-term.
We employer to all Effective recruitment programmes are on-going across all business areas, as well as have also continued to make several personal and career development initiatives.
Talent identification and development strategic senior level external hires to programmes have been implemented and are reviewed annually.
Compensation strengthen our senior leader capability.
and benefits programmes are competitive and also regularly reviewed.
OTHER RISKS EXPOSURE TO MATERIAL ADVERSE LITIGATION INCLUDING CLAIMS OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT OR VIOLATION OF PRIVACY LAWS Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT and general litigation We are regularly involved in a number of pending and threatened litigation Stable trends claims in the US and Latin America, including a number of class actions in 2013 update the US.
Such litigation can comprise a number of areas, including intellectual Strategic alignment The exposure to material adverse property, privacy, antitrust, general commercial disputes and employment.
New customer segments litigation in the US remains generally The outcome of such claims is difficult to accurately assess or quantify.
An Expanding geographically consistent with prior years.
adverse outcome in any of these claims could result in civil or criminal Product innovation penalties as well as in negative publicity.
Further information How we manage this risk Corporate governance We monitor third-party patents and patent applications that may be section associated with relevant to our technologies and products and carry out freedom to operate the identification and analyses where we deem appropriate.
We vigorously defend all pending and monitoring of litigation threatened litigation claims.
We employ internal counsel and engage external Financial statements note counsel to assist in the effective management and disposal of litigation 50 describing contingencies proceedings.
Insurance coverage is maintained against litigation risks where for pending and threatened such coverage is feasible and appropriate.
litigation claims EXPOSURE TO COUNTRY AND REGIONAL POLITICAL, FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, SOCIAL RISKS PARTICULARLY IN THE US, LATIN AMERICA AND THE UK Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT and total revenue Our global footprint subjects our businesses to economic, political and other Stable growth risks associated with international sales and operations.
A variety of factors, 2013 update including changes in a specific countrys or regions political, economic, or Strategic alignment We have operations in 40 countries regulatory requirements, as well as the potential for social and geopolitical Expanding geographically and provide services in many turmoil, including terrorism and war, could result in loss of services, prevent countries around the world.
For Further information our ability to respond to agreed service levels or fulfil other obligations.
These 2013, businesses in North America Corporate responsibility risks are generally outside our control.
accounted for 48% of global revenue, section playing an active How we manage this risk in Latin America 21% and the UK part in communities Our portfolio is diversified by geography, by product, by sector and by client and Ireland 19%.
Only 5% of global Exposure to legislation or in order to protect itself against many of these fluctuations, especially those revenue is derived from the euro zone.
regulatory reforms risks that are restricted to individual territories and market sectors.
and uncertainties Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 31 THE ACQUISITION, INTEGRATION OR DIVESTITURE OF BUSINESSES MAY NOT PRODUCE THE DESIRED FINANCIAL OR OPERATING RESULTS Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT We continue to expand our global reach and extend our capabilities through Stable a combination of acquisitions, strategic alliances joint ventures and organic Strategic alignment 2013 update strategic investments.
The contributions of these businesses and initiatives New customer segments We acquired a further 29.6% interest to Experian may result in financial outcomes that are different than expected in Serasa, our market leading credit Expanding geographically or we may have difficulty assimilating new businesses and their products, bureau in Brazil.
This takes our holding services, technologies and personnel into our operations.
These difficulties Product innovation to 99.6%.
The opportunity to increase could disrupt on-going business, distract management and the workforce, our shareholding this year was part Further information increase expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operating of the original agreement in 2007. Business review section results and financial condition.
We acquired the shares from a bank discussion of how we How we manage this risk group comprising BIU Participaes extend our global lead We assess all acquisitions rigorously, using both in-house experts and S. A. a consortium comprising the through geographic professional advisers.
In addition, we conduct extensive post-acquisition stakes in Serasa held by Ita Unibanco expansion and organic investment reviews to ensure performance remains consistent and Bradesco, Banco Bradesco Financial statements with the business plan.
Similarly, we continually review the performance of Financiamentos, Grupo Santander note 45 for a detailed all businesses within our portfolio and, as a result, sometimes withdraw from and HSBC.
This included an extension description of the low growth or low return markets.
of existing agreements to provide financial impact negative data, and commitments for of these acquisitions to the provision of positive data once the the Group applicable law is fully operational.
EXPOSURE TO THE UNPREDICTABILITY OF FINANCIAL MARKETS FOREIGN EXCHANGE, INTEREST RATE AND OTHER FINANCIAL RISKS Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT Our international operations expose us to the unpredictability of international Increasing risk financial markets.
We face several market risks including: foreign exchange Strategic alignment 2013 update risk from future commercial transactions: recognised assets and liabilities Expanding geographically Concerns about credit risk including and investments in, and loans between, undertakings with different functional that of sovereigns are contributing Further information currencies: interest rate risks arising from its net debt: and price risks.
We are to currency volatility and downgrades Financial review section also exposed to credit and liquidity risks arising from our derivative financial of some financial institutions.
We and notes to the Group instruments and long-term facilities.
The impact of changes in market continue to monitor counterparty financial statements conditions could adversely affect our business, operations and profitability.
How we manage this risk Our financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on our financial performance.
We apply conservative currency hedging strategies to minimise the impact of currency volatility.
Treasury and insurance activities are conducted only with financial and insurance institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE AFFECTED BY ADVERSE MARKET CONDITIONS CAUSED BY THE GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS AND EURO ZONE DEBT CRISIS Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT Our international operations are exposed to adverse market conditions Stable resulting from concerns about the large sovereign debts and or fiscal deficits Strategic alignment 2013 update of a number of European countries and the US or an economic slowdown in Expanding geographically We have operations in 40 countries high growth markets such as Brazil and China.
The default, or a significant and provide services in many Further information decline in the credit rating, of one or more sovereigns or financial institutions countries around the world.
For Business review section could cause severe stress in the financial system generally and could adversely 2013, businesses in North America affect the markets in which we operate and the businesses and economic accounted for 48% of global revenue, condition and prospects of our customers, suppliers, counterparties or in Latin America 21% and the UK creditors, directly or indirectly, in ways that are difficult to predict.
Only 5% of global How we manage this risk revenue is derived from the euro zone.
Our financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on our financial performance.
EXPOSURE TO INCREASING COMPETITION Performance indicator Description of risk and potential impact Change from 2012 EBIT We operate in a number of geographic, product and service markets that are Stable highly competitive.
Competitors may develop products and services that are Strategic alignment 2013 update superior to, or that achieve greater market acceptance than, our products and New customer segments We continue to focus on the services.
Some of our competitors may choose to sell products competitive to development of new products Expanding geographically our products at lower prices by accepting lower margins and profitability, or that leverage our scale to deploy may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices given proprietary Product innovation capabilities into new markets and ownership of data, technological superiority and economies of scale.
Many new platforms Further information reductions may negatively impact our margins and results of operations and have been or are being rolled out in Business review section also harm our ability to obtain new customers or retain existing ones.
For further How we manage this risk examples of these please refer to the We are committed to continued research and investment in new data our strategy for growth section of the sources, people, technology and products to support our strategic plan.
