Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results PRINCIPAL RISKS Fenners operations around the world are shareholder returns.
The principal risks listed uncertainties not presently known to Fenner exposed to a number of risks which could, here are taken from the Fenner Risk Universe or that Fenner currently consider immaterial either on their own, or in combination with and are deemed principal due to their may also have an adverse effect on its others, have an adverse effect on the Groups overall risk ranking and their specific business.
results, strategy, business performance and relevance to the Group's business, strategy reputation which, in turn, could impact upon and operations.
Additional risks and Risk and owner Description and relevance Controls and mitigation Risk The economic recovery continues to be slow with some markets Fenner has and will continue to benefit from underlying Key markets weakening as others strengthen.
Commodity volumes continued to grow volume growth in energy markets, other basic minerals and Owner and in recent months, prices staged a fragile, perhaps temporary, the slow recovery in industrial markets.
We continue to identify Chief Executive Officer & recovery.
Although Fenner has successfully traded through previous and develop opportunities within each operation and across Executive Committee cycles, a substantial downturn in one or more key markets could have a the Group that are counter cyclical to help balance out any material adverse impact on the business.
Risk Our global competitor landscape is complex and dynamic.
Commercial In addition to a diverse product range, market intelligence and Competitor activity activity by competitors or changes in their products or technology could competitor analysis supports market activities and informs Owner impact upon Fenners market share and profitability.
investment in R&D and technical product development.
Executive Committee & operational management Risk The impact on the market for our goods, the way Fenner operates and As well as the monitoring of government initiatives and public Climate change the ability to acquire raw materials could be driven by real or perceived opinion, Fenner has entered into alternative energy markets Owner climate change and regulatory actions in response to that.
including wind and seeks to diversify further into non-carbon Chief Executive Officer & markets when appropriate opportunities arise.
Executive Committee Risk Fenner purchases a variety of raw materials which could be susceptible With the Groups wide geographical spread and devolved Raw materials to uncontrollable and rapid movements in price, leading to margin purchasing functions, Fenner utilises a wide range of Owner erosion.
There are limited or even single source suppliers for certain of techniques including long-term purchase contracts, Operational management our raw materials.
A loss of supplier could lead to an inability to produce escalation clauses in sales contracts and dual sourcing.
We goods in a timely or efficient manner.
retain conversion know-how in-house and in specific situations purchase base materials.
Risk Operating across a number of territories adds complexity to managing Fenner has secure long-term debt finance and committed Liquidity and currency liquidity and exposes the income statement and balance sheet to currency facilities supported by sound banking and investor Owner variations.
Longer-term issues arise from a cost base in one currency relationships.
Group treasury policy covers, inter alia, the use Group Finance Director and markets supplied in another.
High foreign exchange volatility of currency contracts, investment hedging policy and regular increases hedging costs.
Liquidity constraints could lead to reduced reporting of trading exposures.
funds for further investment or working capital requirements.
Risk Our investment programme requires selecting the correct investment Group control, authority levels and approval processes are Major projects and opportunities and designing, building and effectively operating supplemented by the use of experienced project managers.
Issues also exist around successfully integrating Group acquisition procedures include due diligence and the Owner acquired businesses into the Group.
In addition, there is a risk of use of professional advisors, appropriate and enforceable Chief Executive Officer, management focus becoming diverted from external market issues to representations and warranties with detailed integration Group Finance Director & internal operational issues in undertaking new projects and acquisitions.
Executive Committee Risk Our products and processes have high levels of technical innovation and Fenner actively registers, manages and enforces intellectual Loss of intellectual know-how resulting in a strong brand, represented by recognised property rights and monitors competitor activity both directly property trademarks.
These rights are susceptible to theft, infringement, loss and and by use of specialist services and use of non-disclosure Owner replication by competitors.
This could lead to loss of competitive and non-compete agreements.
Appropriate steps are taken to Operational management advantage, loss of brand premium and loss of business.
retain and incentivise key people.
Risk The future success of Fenner is dependent on the continued services of The corporate culture and management style of Fenner is Key personnel key personnel.
Certain of our processes require specialist skills which augmented by bespoke terms and conditions of employment Owner are not routinely available.
A loss of key personnel, with associated for key personnel, including bonuses, pension and long-term Chief Executive Officer & intellectual property and know-how, could disrupt production or even incentive plans.
Risk Fenner has a number of employee benefit schemes including defined Scheme structures are under continual review using Employee benefit benefit post-retirement and US healthcare schemes.
Risks arise from professional advisors.
All options including insurance are schemes exposure to changes in legislation, interest rates, investment returns, considered.
Owner dividends and life expectancy which can increase year-on-year costs Chief Executive Officer & to Fenner.
Group Finance Director Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 22
