28 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 PRINCIPAL RISKS We have indicated how our principal The list of the principal risks and risks would impact our ability to uncertainties facing theGroups deliver against our strategy.
business that follows below is Develop its resource base Maintain a social licence to operate based on the Boards current Improve the quality of its output Evaluate relevant investment Develop its logistics capabilities opportunities understanding.
Due to the very Develop its customer portfolio Maintain financial discipline nature ofrisk it cannot be expected To be a low cost producer Maintain high standards of corporate governance to be completely exhaustive.
New Train and develop the Groups employees risks may emerge and the severity or probability associated with knownrisks may change over time.
RISKS RELATING TO OPERATIONS IN UKRAINE Political and Legal See Note 36 in the Accounts Possible Impact Mitigation Due to rising political instability, Ukraines sovereign risk rating has Management proactively engages with local, regional and central recently been downgraded by all credit agencies.
Ferrexpo protects its local and international interests by ensuring it operates to the very highest international standards and Ukraine has a high current account deficit funded by foreign borrowings actively defends its rights.
and a large external debt refinancing requirement in 2014, while foreign At the time of writing, Ferrexpos operations remain unaffected by the reserves were reported at US$16 billion as of 28 February 2014. current political instability and operations continue to proceed as planned.
Ferrexpo, however, continues to monitor closely the current If the country does not peacefully resolve the current political uncertainty situation as it is volatile.
as well as secure additional financing, there is a risk it may default on its The Groups priority continues to be to maintain production and obligations and potentially increase the cost of funding for Ferrexpo.
supply its first class customer base with high quality premium iron ore product, as it has done throughout its 40-year production history.
Other risks could include a weak judicial system that is susceptible to outside influence.
The Group faces an ongoing legal claim over a shareholding in Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
The case has been running for more than six years in Ukraine, and the Directors believe it still has some way to go.
The Board continues to receive legal advice that the case against Ferrexpo has little legal merit under Ukrainian law for legal, technical and practical reasons.
Associated Strategic Priority 29 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Ukrainian Producer Price Inflation PPI Possible Impact Mitigation As the Groups operations are in Ukraine it is exposed to cost inflation.
The Groups BIP has achieved continuing efficiency improvements Ukraine has experienced high levels of inflation over a number of years.
and cost reductions over many years.
Since inception of BIP in 2006, The inflationary environment increases local costs if not mitigated by the cash cost of production has reduced by US$8.6 per tonne of a devaluation of the Ukrainian currency and operational efficiency pellets.
The Group also has a consistent track record of producing at improvements.
full capacity to achieve maximum overhead absorption and is set to expand production output in 2013.
Associated Strategic Priority Ukrainian VAT Receivable See Note 26 in the Accounts Possible Impact Mitigation As the bulk of the Groups output is exported, it does not collect The Group maintains an open dialogue with the government and substantial amounts of VAT on sales which could otherwise be offset operates to best international standards, ensuring the validity of against VAT incurred on purchases of goods and services for operating the VAT repayments.
The Ukrainian government refunds the outstanding balance of VAT, although not always on a timely basis.
The late repayment of VAT results in increased working capital, which must be funded from operating cash flows and debt.
Ukrainian VAT balances are exposed to a risk of devaluation of the UAH.
As of 31 December 2013, Ferrexpo was owed US$318 million of VAT by the Ukrainian government, of which US$146 million was overdue relating to 2012 and prior financial years.
In addition to this overdue balance, US$102 million is in dispute in the court system.
The Group has recorded a total provision in respect of the overdue and disputed VAT amounts of US$60 million.
Associated Strategic Priority Ukrainian Taxes Possible Impact Mitigation The Group is exposed to changes in local tax laws especially in Ukraine.
The Group takes regular advice on tax matters from Ukraine tax During the year new transfer pricing regulations were implemented.
experts and complies with all known requirements.
The Group Ukrainian tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations, maintains a transparent and open relationship with local, regional and and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national authorities.
Tax authorities can challenge the Groups interpretation and treatment of these laws resulting in increased tax liabilities owed by the Group.
As part of an agreement with the majority of industry players in Ukraine the tax authorities have been remitting regular VAT refunds in 2013 in exchange for the partial pre-payment of corporate profit tax in respect of future periods.
In 2013, Ferrexpo paid US$63 million in this respect resulting in a year-end balance of US$88 million 2012: US$25 million.
Associated Strategic Priority Counterparty Risk See Notes 34 and 37 in the Accounts Possible Impact Mitigation The Group operates in Ukraine which has a weak country credit The financial strength of all of the Groups counterparties is subject to profile as defined by international credit rating agencies.
Financial regular and thorough review.
The results of these reviews are used to instability of the Groups counterparties, including its major suppliers, determine appropriate levels of exposures consistent with benefits Ukrainian government, local banks and a weak banking sector can obtained in order to mitigate the potential risk of financial loss.
The absorb high amounts of working capital.
Counterparty risk could also Group has not experienced any financial losses from transactions lead to lower sales volumes, delays in projects and interruption of with its counterparties.
production or financial loss in the event of a default by counterparties The Group regularly reviews its supplier base in order to avoid and adversely affect its future financial results.
excessive dependence on any supplier, actively encouraging a diversity of supply where reasonable and practical.
Associated Strategic Priority 30 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Develop its resource base Maintain a social licence to operate PRINCIPAL RISKS continued Improve the quality of its output Evaluate relevant investment Develop its logistics capabilities opportunities Develop its customer portfolio Maintain financial discipline To be a low cost producer Maintain high standards of corporate governance rain and develop the Groups T employees RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUPS OPERATIONS Iron Ore Prices and Market Possible Impact Mitigation Fluctuations in iron ore prices as well as in demand may negatively Ferrexpo has a competitive cost base which has enabled it to impact the financial result of the Group.
produce at full capacity and remain profitable throughout the commodities cycle.
The Group has an established, broad customer base and logistics infrastructure which can service regional and seaborne markets.
This provides flexibility should a particular region experience a decline in demand.
Associated Strategic Priority Mining Risks and Hazards Possible Impact Mitigation Mining risks and hazards may result in employee and contractor fatalities Safety, environmental and operational performance is regularly and as well as material mine or plant shutdowns or periods of reduced rigorously reviewed throughout the organisation including the COO, production.
Such events could damage the Groups reputation and the Executive Committee and the Board.
Through its capital investment programme Ferrexpo is modernising its mining and production facilities which is improving safety, environmental and operational performance.
All accidents are fully investigated and lessons are drawn and implemented.
Appropriate safety training is regularly provided to employees.
Employee remuneration is linked to safety performance.
Associated Strategic Priority Reliance on StateMonopolies Possible Impact Mitigation The Group purchases certain goods and services from state-owned The factors affecting the Groups future cost structure are closely enterprises, and changes in the related tariffs affect the Groups cost managed.
Availability of services can also be limited, which could affect the Cost reduction initiatives are planned and reported to the Board.
Groups ability to produce and deliver pellets.
Examples include railway Since inception of BIP in 2006, it has reduced the C1 cash cost tariffs and availability of rail wagons, supply of gas and electricity and by US$8.6 per tonne of pellets.
associated tariffs, and mining royalties.
The Group has purchased its own rail wagons to reduce reliance on state-owned rail cars.
The Group sourced alternative gas supplies in January 2009 when there were gas price disputes between Russia and Ukraine.
Ferrexpo actively looks to invest in areas to reduce reliance on state monopolies.
Associated Strategic Priority 31 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Logistics Possible Impact Mitigation The Groups logistics capability is dependent on services provided by The Group continues to invest in its logistics capabilities in order to third parties and state-owned organisations, mainly in relation to rail and ensure available capacity, better service its customers, lower costs port services.
Logistical bottlenecks may affect the Groups ability to and to reduce reliance on third-party providers.
Beside considerable distribute its products on time, impacting customer relationships.
investment in the rail car fleet over recent years, Ferrexpo owns 145 barges operating on the Danube Rhine River corridor.
It also owns a 48.6% in the port of TIS Ruda which guarantees the Group independent access to the seaborne markets avoiding reliance on the state port.
Associated Strategic Priority RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUPS STRATEGY Expansion Capital Investment Possible Impact Mitigation The Groups growth depends on its ability to upgrade existing facilities The Group has established strict procedures to control, monitor and develop its iron ore resource base.
For any major capital project and manage this expenditure which is regularly reviewed by the there is a risk of insufficient controls, cost overruns, shortage of required Investment and Executive Committee and the Board.
skills, and unexpected technical problems affecting the time taken to complete the project and the return on the capital invested.
Associated Strategic Priority Government Approvals of Expansion Possible Impact Mitigation The Group does not yet have all the governmental approvals required to Ferrexpo maintains an open and proactive relationship with various develop future deposits.
Although all approvals that have been applied governmental authorities and is fully aware of the importance of for have been granted, there is no guarantee that others will be granted compliance with local legislation and standards.
The Group monitors and reviews its commitments under its various mining licences in order to ensure that the conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or the appropriate waivers obtained.
Ferrexpo maintains strict compliance with the Ukrainian mining code and execution of work in accordance with the project design through active engagement of Ukrainian and international legal advisers.
Associated Strategic Priority Investment Opportunities Possible Impact Mitigation Ferrexpo evaluates and, if it believes appropriate, enters into net present Management has procedures in place to ensure any potential value opportunities which it believes are potentially value accretive to the investment opportunity undergoes thorough due diligence and meets Company and can reduce future operating risk.
All investment decisions are approved by the Board.
There is a risk that Ferrexpo may make acquisitions or investments, which may not be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet its operational or strategic expectations.
In addition such an investment or acquisition may divert managements attention away from ongoing business activities.
