Fidessa group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk factors and uncertainties There are a number of potential risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on Fidessas operations, its financial results or the value and liquidity of its securities.
The following table identifies some of the primary risk factors but may not be exhaustive: there has been no overall change to Fidessas risk factors from the previous year.
There may also be risks that are not currently considered to be serious or which are currently unknown.
Where reasonably possible, Fidessa has taken steps to mitigate the risks or potential risks but it cannot entirely safeguard against all of them.
Risk factor Risk mitigation Economic conditions: Instability of the financial system, market disruptions Fidessas business model generates a high level of or suspensions recurring revenue which lessens the immediate effect of A material downturn in financial markets or downturns in end markets.
In addition, Fidessa is a global economic recession business which provides resilience against regional The insolvency, closure, consolidation or nationalisation recession.
of parts of its customer base Service: Inability to access an office or data centre facility Through established controls and processes Fidessa aims Delay to or failure of an implementation of Fidessa to prevent many of these risks materialising.
In addition, software or service the service environment is monitored using tools and Lack of access to the Fidessa services or failure of processes so that issues arising can be detected and data transmission reacted to at an early stage.
In designing facilities, the Saturation of network capacity resilience and capacity are of high importance so that Failure of the software for individual or multiple continuity of service is expected.
customers Test trades entering a live market Security and data: Unauthorised access to and or sabotage of systems Fidessa has robust information and physical security and premises policies and procedures which provide a reasonable level Loss or corruption of customer data of protection against sabotage.
They also limit access to Disaffected employees systems, office and data centre areas to appropriate personnel.
Penetration and security testing is undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of security and identify areas for improvement.
Legal: Contractual risk Fidessa maintains a rigorous process for approving Claims for infringement of a third partys intellectual contractual terms and deliverables to control the level of property risk that is accepted.
Where practical, focused patent Infringement of Fidessas intellectual property searches are undertaken to identify areas that new products or services under development may conflict with third party patents.
Fidessa group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Risk factor Risk mitigation Employees: Loss of key employees Fidessa recognises that it is important to provide a Skills shortage stimulating environment in which to work, and provide the development and training to create successful careers whilst also rewarding fairly and competitively.
Financial: Foreign exchange on transactions or balances that are Fidessa has an established treasury policy that limits the denominated in a foreign currency level of single counterparty risk and foreign exchange Collapse of financial institutions holding Fidessas hedging is not necessary as a significant level of natural cash deposits hedge exists.
Lack of financial resources to respond to market, customer or regulatory changes Fidessas business strategy does not require acquisitions to Acquisition or disposals and their potential negative provide growth and being technology led there are likely impact on profitability to be few.
Where acquisition opportunities are identified, Impairment of goodwill arising from acquisitions appropriate due diligence is undertaken.
Regulation: Changes in regulations in financial markets affecting Being a workflow provider, changes in financial market the software and services that Fidessa provides regulation are normally beneficial for Fidessas business.
Health and safety, anti-corruption and environmental It has a team of specialists who monitor regulatory regulation affecting Fidessas operations developments and how they need to be reflected in the products and services offered.
Fidessa maintains awareness of applicable laws that are likely to affect its operations whilst developing procedures and providing training to ensure compliance.
Advice is obtained from external experts as necessary.
