Risks and uncertainties Each division has a designated Risk Champion who maintains a There are a number of key potential risks divisional risk register.
These in turn support the Group Risk Register.
and uncertainties that without effective The Risk Champions and other members of senior management form the Risk Group, which meets at least on a quarterly basis and management could have an adverse oversees the Groups risk management activities and reviews and impact on the Groups performance.
maintains the Group Risk Register.
Our principal risks and uncertainties Our risk management approach Many risks inherent in a transport company such as ours will always We have a risk management methodology which we use throughout exist.
The challenge is to manage them effectively.
Our principal risks, the business to allow us to identify and manage the risks that are likely which are detailed overleaf, relate to passenger safety and security, to have an impact on the financial or operational performance of the ourmain cost drivers and the governmental, regulatory and economic Group, or which could impede achievement of its strategic objectives environments.
or adversely impact its reputation or stakeholder expectations, ensuring that we operate safely, develop and protect our people, assets, These risks have been assessed taking into account materiality, the customers and reputation.
likelihood of occurrence and any change to this during the year, and theresidual risk after the implementation of controls.
Risk management structure The risks listed do not comprise all those highlighted by our risk Board management processes or those that may otherwise affect the Group nor are those that are listed set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be less material, may also impact our business.
Further information on our risk management controls is contained in Internal Risk External the corporate governance section on pages 60 and 61.
Audit Group Audit Business divisions First First UK UK Group Greyhound Student Transit Bus Rail functions 46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Risk Potential impact Mitigation Movement Economic and political conditions Economic conditions, political Reduced demand for public Many areas of the Groups business offer a developments and changes in transportation, reduced funding for certain degree of protection against government policy affecting the and spending by local and national economic downturn in specific geographic markets in which the Group operates, governments and other customers markets, and certain current rail franchises whether at a global, regional or on public or student transport and or have revenue support and profit sharing national level could have a negative changes to market structure or arrangements in place.
To an extent, our UK impact on the Groups businesses dynamics or inability to pass on Bus operating companies are able to modify and its ability to grow existing fully to customers the impact of services in reaction to economic and businesses, retain, or win increased costs.
political impacts and our Greyhound new contracts.
operations have greater flexibility, particularly Supplier failure, or non-performance, in the United States.
Failure, or increased instability, resulting in supply chain disruption.
Continuous monitoring of key suppliers financial health and identification of alternatives to ensure Group supply chain resilience.
Pensions The Group has significant defined Material changes in the accounting Through diversification of investments, benefit obligations many of which are cost and cash funding requirements hedging of liabilities, amendment of the in deficit.
Both assets and liabilities in subsequent years as a result of the defined benefit promises and the can vary considerably in the short underlying investments and liabilities introduction of defined contribution for new term when compared to their long not moving in line with long term starts in UK Bus and Group, the Group term assumptions.
seeks to mitigate these risks.
However, itisnot possible to completely negate them.
Under the franchise arrangements the UK Rail Train Operating Companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise so there is only short term cash flow risk within this business.
Terrorism, man-made and natural disasters The threat from terrorism is enduring Reduced public confidence in public We continue to develop and apply good and continues to exist in the countries transportation, and or specifically in practice and train our employees so that in which we operate.
Public transport the Groups security and safety they can identify and respond effectively has previously been subject to attack record.
toany potential threat or incident.
and it remains important that we take Reduced profits resulting from all reasonable steps to help guard reduced demand for our services, against such activity on any of the increased costs or security services we operate.
requirements, business disruption In addition the risk of other man-made and or, in the case of poor weather, or natural disasters including material increased accidents.
adverse weather conditions or an outbreak of contagious disease could have an impact on the services we provide.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Mitigation Movement Competitive pressures All of the Groups businesses compete Reduced passenger numbers To continue to help mitigate the risks posed in the areas of pricing and service and revenues.
by these pressures, the Group continues to and face competition from a number focus on service quality and performance as of sources.
priorities in making our services attractive to passengers and other customers.
In its In the UK, the main competitor remains contracted operations, contract compliance the car and to a lesser extent long and a competitive bidding strategy and distance coach and budget airlines.
strong bidding team are key.
In addition, The UK Bus market is deregulated with wherever possible, the Group works with low public subsidy and is very local and national bodies to promote competitive with over 1,200 operators measures aimed at increasing demand running local bus services.
for public transport and the other services As mentioned on page 49, that we offer.
competition for UK Rail franchises is also very strong from a number of other large public and state-owned entities active in the market.
In North America, the Groups businesses cover a wide geographic area competing with several large companies as well as a substantial number of smaller, locally owned operators.
Our competitors in the school bus business also include school districts which themselves operate approximately two thirds of school buses in North America.
Similarly, there are a significant number of transit and service businesses operated by private entities, including several large companies and public authorities.
Our Greyhound coach operations face competition from a number of other coach operators in North America as well as from budget airlines.
Information technology The Group relies on information Loss of revenue and increased As a result of the continuing threat of technology in all aspects of its operating costs due to increased cyber-attacks, the Group has increased its business.
Any significant disruption or capital, security or insurance dedicated IT security resource, which in failure, caused by external factors, requirements.
conjunction with policy and procedures and denial of service, computer viruses or extensive security controls is designed to human error, could result in a service enhance the resilience and security of the interruption, accident or Groups information technology systems and misappropriation of confidential the data they contain.
information including credit card data.
Process failure, security breach or other operational difficulties may also lead to revenue loss.
48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Risk Potential impact Mitigation Movement Rail re-franchising Whilst the UK DfT has announced its Lower UK Rail division contribution The Group has an experienced and intention to extend a number of the and profitability.
dedicated rail bid team, which will continue Groups rail franchises, the terms of to compete for franchises as they are re-let.
those extensions have yet to be agreed and even taking into account the announced extensions, all of the Groups franchises will expire between 2014 and 2016.
The timetable for re-franchising of the Groups and other UK rail franchises has recently been announced.
Although the terms of the new franchises are not yet clear, the competition for new rail franchises is expected to be intense.
We bid against operators of current UK rail franchises and rail operators from other countries, principally from within the European Union.
Contracted businesses The Group is required to comply with Potential termination of relevant rail Compliance with franchise conditions is certain conditions as part of its UK rail franchise agreement and possibly closely managed and monitored on a franchise agreements.
others if cross-default invoked monthly basis by senior management and resulting in loss of revenue and cash procedures are in place to minimise the risk The Groups First Student and First flow as well as some or all of the of non-compliance.
Transit businesses are contracted amounts set aside as security for businesses dependent on the ability The relevant divisions have experienced and performance bonds and season to renew and secure new contract dedicated bid teams which undertake ticket bonds.
careful economic modelling of contract bids Loss of business, or failure to renew, and, where possible, seek to negotiate risk leading to reduced revenue sharing arrangements with the relevant and profitability.
Incorrect bid assumptions leading to greater than anticipated costs or losses.
Legislation and regulation Our businesses are subject to Increased costs of compliance with The Group has embedded operating numerous laws and regulations existing or changes in regulation policies and procedures in all our covering a wide range of matters or legislation.
businesses to ensure compliance with including health and safety, existing legislation and regulation.
Reduction in operational flexibility equipment, employment including or efficiency.
We have dedicated legal teams in the UK working time, wage and hour and and North America who oversee the Financial and reputational impact legislation covering mandatory Groups compliance and training offailure to comply.
breaks, competition and anti-trust, programmes and advise on environmental, insurance coverage Negative impact on ability to bid for emerging issues.
The Group closely monitors the impact of laws and regulations are constantly changes in the regulatory and legal subject to change.
environment and actively engages with Government and transport bodies to help ensure that we are properly positioned to respond to any proposed changes.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Mitigation Movement Customer service The Groups revenues are at risk if it Contracts not renewed: revenue Relevant staff undertake intensive training does not continue to provide the level levels reduced: negative impact on programmes to ensure they are aware of of service expected by customers.
and abide by the levels of service that are required by our customers in each business.
On going engagement with customers and community stakeholders takes place across the Group, including through Meet the manager events, customer panels, consultations and local partnerships.
The Board also monitors, in detail, a series of customer service KPIs to ensure strict targets are being met.
Litigation and claims The Group has three main insurable Increased costs: reduced availability The Group has a very strong focus on safety risks: third party claims arising from of insurance cover: reputational it is one of our values.
The size of the vehicle and general operations, impact.
Groups operations is such that there is a employee injuries and high frequency of low value injury and A large single claim or a large property damage.
property damage claims which the Group number of smaller claims may affect self-insures up to certain limits.
It purchases The Group is also subject to other profitability and cash flow.
insurance above these limits from reputable litigation, particularly in North America, global insurance firms.
Claims are managed which is not insured including by experienced claims handlers.
contractual claims and those relating to employee wage and hour matters.
Non-insured claims are managed by the Groups dedicated in-house legal team, withexternal assistance as appropriate.
Treasury risks As set out in further detail in note 25 Foreign currency and interest rate The Groups Treasury Policy and delegated to the financial statements on movements impact profit, balance authorities are reviewed periodically to pages 106 to 111, treasury risks sheet and cash flows of the Group.
ensure compliance with best practice and to include liquidity risks and risks arising control and monitor these risks effectively.
Ineffective hedging arrangements from changes to foreign exchange may not fully mitigate losses or may rates, and interest rates.
Labour cost and employee relations Labour costs represent the largest Higher than expected increase in the The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by component of the Groups operating cost of recruitment, training and other its recruitment and retention policies, training costs.
Future labour shortages or staff costs: operational disruption schemes and working practices including decreasing unemployment rates and reduced cash flow and building communication and engagement could hinder the Groups ability to profitability.
with the trade unions and the recruit and retain qualified employees.
In addition, it is important for a labour Examples of this engagement include regular intensive Group that good employee leadership conferences, employee satisfaction relations are maintained.
pulse surveys, and the presence of Employee Directors Directors voted for by the employees to represent them on many of the Groups UK divisional boards, and the FirstGroup Board.
50 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Risk Potential impact Mitigation Movement Fuel costs Fuel is a significant component of the High prices, increased volatility of fuel To mitigate the risk of volatile fuel costs the Groups operating costs.
Fuel prices prices or supply restrictions, Group regularly enters into forward hedging and supply levels can be influenced shortages or interruptions could contracts providing fixed prices.
In addition, significantly by international, political adversely impact the Groups the Group may limit the impact of and economic circumstances.
operations, cash flow and profitability.
unexpected fuel price rises through efficiency and pricing measures.
The Group may be unable to pass increased costs on fully to customers.
Ineffective hedging arrangements may not fully mitigate losses or may increase them.
Retention of key management Attracting and keeping key members Inability to execute Group strategy The Group has a robust succession of senior management is vital in resulting in reduced profitability.
planning process designed to identify ensuring that the Group continues to talented individuals, set development goals have the necessary expertise and for progression to other roles and to assess continuity to execute its strategy.
the depth of talent and any gaps throughout In order that management have the leadership of FirstGroup.
The Group also diverse and challenging careers offers market based compensation they are given autonomy, within packages consisting of an appropriate mix parameters set by the Board, to of long and short term incentives.
Environmental The Groups operations store and Environmental, reputational or To mitigate these risks, the Groups storage manage large quantities of fuel at our financial loss resulting from facilities are subject to regular inspection maintenance sites, which presents a remediation of incidents, and we have detailed fuel handling potential regulatory and financial risk prosecutions and or penalties.
procedures which are regularly audited.
in the event of significant loss or Robust environmental policies, strategies spillage and are subject to ongoing and management systems are maintained changes in environmental regulations.
Along with all businesses we face the The Group continues to target reductions in challenge of addressing climate its emissions, including through behaviour change, both managing its impact change initiatives and investment in and reducing emissions.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51
