STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION S K S I R L A I C N T A RISK, POLICIES, PROCEDURES, MANAGEMENT ACTIONS H A N S A G I C F G L N S I T C O I I S S I R O V R R R E U I G N E O T T R U T T V I L N I R E A A O N T S O O O N O R L D A Y C S M C R N N I S E A D K S S K S I R E T A R RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Not all risks are within the control of the Group.
Our fully integrated system of risk management and internal controls provides visibility and accountability However, our approach to risk management ensures we have controls in place to reduce the impact of such for risks throughout Alent.
risks where possible, should they occur.
RISK ASSESSMENT APPROACH Alent faces a wide range of risks across our global RISK MANAGEMENT ROLES business.
Efficient and effective management of our risks Ultimately the Board is responsible for the Groups risk is at the centre of Alent plc and the way we operate.
management and internal control frameworks.
The Board will regularly review insurance and other measures adopted The risk assessment approach is designed to identify, to manage risks within the Group.
The Audit Committee categorise and assess in terms of impact and likelihood will regularly monitor, review and evaluate the effectiveness of occurrence before, and after, control mitigation, the of the system and controls of the Group.
key risks facing the business.
The Board delegates a level of risk to the Executive At the centre of the risk assessment is the framework for Management team through a series of Group policies identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks and delegated authority matrices.
faced by the business with Alent plc at the centre of the risk assessment.
Surrounding the centre are controls utilised to During the course of 2013, the Group established an protect the Group from existing and potential risks that Executive Risk Committee to review, evaluate, mitigate could impact the business.
and report on risks within the Group.
These include business unit risks, Group risks, internal risks, external risks, financial We have a Risk Management Policy which provides risks and non-financial risks.
The Committee meets regularly a consistent approach to risk management throughout and provides the Board with updates on any major risks the Group.
Risks are identified and mitigated at every level that could have a material impact on the Group, assessing within the Group.
Where applicable, risks are aggregated the impact and likelihood of occurrence before, and after, and all Group risks and mitigation actions shared with the control mitigation.
operating companies to ensure consistency of mitigation and localisation where possible.
ALENT PLC BOARD EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE ALENT PLC RISK COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT ASSEMBLY MATERIALS AND SURFACE CHEMISTRIES OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT REGIONAL AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 35 O P R O C L G A L A O N S M C B N L A A D L A L R O O C, K N O E I E E O C T T R O N R O R N I C P I I N T S T T T K O N A O R I N S M T R U O I R O E Y C S F L, K P A S L S C D I O T E R N E L REPORTING V A A E N L O I T A R E P O RISK MANA GEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS CONTINUED Throughout its global operations, the Group faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group manages the risk inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
The risks below are not the only risks the Group will face.
Some risks are not yet known and some could change their level of materiality and impact on the Group in the future.
All of these risks could materially affect the Group, its divisions, and results of future operations or financial condition.
RISK AND IMPACT ON STRATEGY KEY ACTIONS TREND ECONOMIC RISK A review of intelligence related to our end-markets to ensure that any Global, economic and market related risks deterioration in those markets is identified early, communicated The financial performance and financial appropriately and acted upon.
position of the Group may be adversely The Board will regularly review Group strategy, which will determine affected by a significant weakening in the markets in which the Group operates.
The current spread of the demand in its core end-markets and general Groups business, both geographically and by end-market served, macro-economic conditions.
provides some protection to the Group should conditions in particular During an economic financial downturn, there markets deteriorate.
is an increased possibility that organisations Cost-reduction initiatives and the cost base remains tightly controlled.
with which the Group has either trading or Counterparties are chosen carefully so that those with poor credit funding relationships may not honour their ratings and reputations are avoided by the Group wherever possible.
Treasury policies and procedures detail the minimum rating criteria for banks where deposits can be made.
Group subsidiaries are required to operate effective credit control procedures.
Surplus cash positions and bank balances held at subsidiary level are reviewed on a regular basis by the Groups treasury department and actions taken where appropriate.
Default lender language was negotiated into the bank facility in the event that an existing bank lender cannot meet its lending obligations.
Group companies must hold adequate and specific reserves against possible bad debts.
FINANCIAL The treasury policy is regularly updated and communicated to Financial Risk Treasury the divisions.
The Groups financial position and trading Transactional and balance sheet translation risks associated with results may be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations through hedging and funding fluctuations in exchange rates, interest policies are actively managed.
rates or the rate of inflation.
There is a Group policy that foreign currency transaction exposures that are material at an individual operating unit level are hedged using appropriate instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts.
For key operating currencies, the Group policy is to broadly match the currency profile of its borrowings with the currencies of its asset base.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swaps or other instruments.
OPERATIONAL RISK Significant investments in research and development are made to Technology and innovation sustain competitive advantage and take appropriate action to ensure Alent may lose customers to competitors with the cost base remains competitive.
new or alternative technologies if its businesses The Group applies for patents over its products, technologies and either do not adequately adapt to market processes in a number of jurisdictions, including, but not limited to, developments or are unable to protect, Europe and the USA.
maintain and enforce its intellectual property.
New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly monitored and any perceived breach of Group registered patents, know how or designs is vigorously challenged.
The Group avoids holding key intellectual property in countries which do not afford an acceptable degree of legal protection to Alent.
Significant investment takes place in research and development facilities and will continue to ensure that the Group remains able to front-run emerging trends, and maintain its leadership position in terms of innovation and product development in its market niches.
Trend indicates perception of how risk has moved year-on-year.
36 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION RISK AND IMPACT ON STRATEGY KEY ACTIONS TREND Operational Risk Personnel The Group has created comprehensive development opportunities The loss of key personnel or the failure to to introduce, reinforce and further strengthen employee talents.
attract, develop or retain skilled or qualified The Group utilises a variety of programmes tailored to help employees could negatively impact its employees enhance their performance, set and achieve the Group.
objectives, develop their leadership skills and recognise and reward their achievements.
A succession planning programme with an identified succession plan is in place for all senior members of staff.
The Remuneration Committee approves fit-for-purpose employee compensation and incentive programmes.
Operational Risk Intellectual property New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly If the Group fails or is unable to protect, monitored and any perceived breach of a Group patent is maintain and enforce its intellectual property, vigorously challenged.
it may lose its exclusive right to use its The Group applies for patents over its major products, technologies technologies and processes.
and processes in a number of jurisdictions, including but not limited to Europe and the USA.
To the extent possible, the Group avoids holding key intellectual property in countries which do not afford an acceptable degree of legal protection to the Group.
Operational Risk Raw material prices The Group has processes in place to ensure that any increases or The Groups future prospects, financial position decreases in the cost of commodity metal prices are passed on to and results of operations could be adversely its customers.
affected if it is unable to pass on to its customers Group systems are automatically uploaded with LME London Metal fluctuations in the prices of the raw materials Exchange prices or equivalent on a daily basis.
These prices are which it purchases.
then agreed and passed on to the customer at the time of placing an order.
REGULATORY RISK Executives and line managers at all levels are directly responsible Environmental, health and safety through the normal management structure for HS&E matters in the Changing regulatory environment and criteria, operations under their control.
particularly in emerging markets and future Group facilities are ISO compliant to quality, environmental and health expenditure on compliance with environmental and safety standards by a third party registrar.
and health and safety laws and regulations The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its may materially adversely affect the Groups businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the future prospects, financial position and results operational risks which they face.
Regulatory Risk Failure to comply with As part of its planning process before entering a new market or territory, laws, regulations and restrictions ethics or expanding in an existing market or territory, the Group undertakes a and governance rigorous assessment of the risks involved.
Should the Groups businesses fail to comply In addition, the spread of the Groups major businesses, both with applicable legal and regulatory geographically and by end-market served, provides some protection requirements, this may result in a financial to the Group should any of its businesses be adversely impacted by loss or restriction on their ability to operate.
legal, regulatory or other changes in an individual market or territory.
The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the operational risks they face.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 37
