Managing our Risks continued Our approach to managing risk is underpinned by our understanding of our current risk exposures, risk appetite and how our risks are changing over time.
Current Order Risk rating change from 2012 Risk Risk appetite 2012 2013 Change Description of risk change High High Very Most industry and financial analysts who follow metal prices predict 1.
Impact of global high lower average silver and gold prices, with continued high volatility.
was 2 macro-economic The sharp fall in precious metal prices in 2013 has put the industry developments under more pressure than it has known for almost a decade.
Medium High Very Negotiations for land, in Mexico and globally, combined with an 2.
Access to land high increase in land requirements, remain a challenge.
Foreign mining was 4 companies in general, and Canadian ones in particular, have set certain precedents for future negotiations in their agreements with members of agrarian communities ejidos.
A number of ejidos have disavowed previous agreements, seeking to renegotiate agreed, upon terms and conditions: such actions are often driven by special interests.
Their demands have increased signicantly compared to previous years and this trend is expected to continue.
Low Very Very Although we have not experienced a material negative impact on 3.
Security high high our operations this year, the number of security incidents in areas was 1 near our operations and exploration projects increased in 2013.
Low High Very As part of the Tax Reform approved by the Mexican Congress 4.
Potential actions high in 2013, the tax burden that mining companies will face includes was 5 bythe government, reduced deductions of exploration costs and social benets, and e. g. implementation new mining duties 7.5% of a base similar to EBITDA and 0.5% of of a tax on mining gold and silver sales.
Detailed rules on the implementation of these companies in new mining duties are yet to be dened.
Additionally, it is expected that anew more restrictive mining law with higher burdens will be Mexico, more discussed and approved in 2014. stringent regulations Another potential government action that may impact on us is the for obtaining increase in regulations on the use and handling of explosives, driven permits, etc.
by the new administration and the increased concern about misuse of explosives by drug cartels: the length of time to obtain permits is longer and the requirements more stringent.
| 44 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Current Order Risk rating change from 2012 Risk Risk appetite 2012 2013 Change Description of risk change Low High High Social activism continues to be a growing global phenomenon within 5.
Public perception the mining sector with the potential to impact all strategic areas: was 6 against mining there have been several examples impacting other mining companies in Mexico.
In particular, the growth of social activism could negatively impact our ability to obtain and maintain the social licence to operate by the communities near our operations and projects.
Medium High Medium As we continue to develop our advanced projects, we obtain greater 6.
Projects high certainty about the mineral resources and face lower performance was 3 and delivery risks because of lower construction risk and greater certainty about the availability of key equipment.
In addition, our strict investment governance process and system of capital project controls supports our ability to deliver development projects on time and onbudget.
Low High Medium Accident indicators continue to decline due to our strict application 7.
Safety high of procedures and greater supervision of safety for personnel and was 7 contractors: however, the risk remains at a medium high level and we have still not met our safety goals.
Medium Medium Medium Continued investment in the exploration programme has stabilised 8.
Exploration this risk and we foresee no change in risk status based on available was 9 information.
Medium Medium Medium Competition for skilled personnel remains a challenge: however, we 9.
Human resources low continue to see results from our proactive recruitment actions with was 10 universities and our diverse retention strategies.
Low Low Low Our mature environmental management programme continues 10.
Environmental to reduce the likelihood of a significant environmental incident.
was 8 incidents For those risks with a risk rating that is above our risk appetite, management takes action to reduce the level of risk.
See Risk response mitigation in the table that follows.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 45
