Managing our Risks continued Our principal risks Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 1.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments There could be an adverse impact on our sales and We continue to have full exposure to uctuations in Link to strategy profit, and potentially the economic viability of projects, the prices of gold and silver and currently have no 1 Operate from macroeconomic developments such as: hedging in place in line with our investors mandate.
2 Develop For new major projects, the Company may consider A decrease in gold and silver prices primary driver of undertaking some degree of hedging.
The extent of 3 Explore the risk : this was the case for silver and gold in 2013, risk appetite in this area will continue to be evaluated with a decline of 27.3% and 16.3% correspondingly, frequently to ensure on-going alignment with in the annual average price over the previous year.
Continued volatility in gold and silver prices.
We have hedging policies in place for foreign Key risk indicators Adverse uctuations in MXN USD exchange rates exchange movements, including currencies or other foreign currencies.
Gross profit sensitivity to impacting equipment purchase commitments: % change in metals price General ination in Mexico, which was 3.97% in in 2013, we entered into new hedging contracts Mexican pesos in 2013: the specic ination affecting EBITDA sensitivity to for US$328.6 million and the closing position is the Company was 7.34% in US dollar terms.
% change inmetals price US$232.7 million.
See Note 30 in the Financial Statements page 198-199.
Inationary pressures: we engage suppliers in long-term contracts to maintain our position as a lowcost producer and control the impact of the rising cost of our main inputs.
Access to land Link to strategy Given our growth strategy and aggressive exploration Fresnillo plc acquired 2,831.3 hectares of surface land plan, failure or significant delays in accessing the for the San Julin project and 676.5 hectares of surface 1 Operate surface over our mineral concessions and other land land for other exploration projects prospects in 2013.
2 Develop of interest is a persistent risk with a potentially high To maximise our opportunities for successful land impact on our objectives.
Potential barriers to land access we: 3 Explore access include: I nvest in hiring and training negotiators and Rising expectations of land owners provide Executive Management support for our negotiation teams: our negotiation team is comprised Refusal to acknowledge prior land acquisitions of six negotiators hired directly by Fresnillo and Key risk indicators terms and conditions by members of an seven negotiators provided as part of the service agrarian community Percentage of land required for agreement with Peoles.
Inuence of multiple special interests in advanced exploration projects Plan well in advance for land requirements and land negotiations that has been purchased acquisitions e. g. anticipating potential land purchase overall and by project Conicts in land boundaries with an often arduous before intensive exploration.
resolution process Total US$ and percentage Foster strong community relations through of project budget spend on Succession issues among land owners resulting in a investment in community programmes and HSECR activities, including lack of clarity about the legal entitlement to possess infrastructure.
Such investments totalled community relations at projects and sell land US$2.14 million.
and exploration Furthermore, insecurity and conicts in our A lways seek tri-party cooperation between the exploration operation areas increase the complexity government, community and ourselves in securing of land access.
As a consequence of the Ejido El Bajo legal proceedings at Dipolos, we are conducting a comprehensive review of the status of our landrights in order to mitigate or eliminate a risk ofsimilar litigation.
| 46 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 3.
Security Our people face the risk of kidnapping, extortion or We closely monitor the security situation, maintain Link to strategy harm due to security conditions in the regions where clear internal communications and coordinate work 1 Operate we operate.
We face the risk of restricted access to in areas of higher insecurity, along with the following 2 Develop operations projects and theft of assets.
practices to manage our security risks and prevent possible incidents: 3 Explore The growing inuence of drug cartels, other criminal 4 Sustainability Travel management: e. g. travel in convoy, elements and general lawlessness in the regions where use aircraft versus land travel and avoid known we operate, combined with our aggressive exploration insecure areas: in 2013, we invested US$2.5 million and project activity in areas of transfer or cultivation in helicopter travel.
At San Julin, construction of a of drugs, makes working in these areas of particular Key risk indicators landing strip was concluded with an investment of risk for us.
Total number of security US$2.7 million.
incidents thefts, kidnapping, E nhanced on-site security measures cameras, extortion, etc.
barriers, delayed access : we invested US$1.3 million Number of sites affected in security equipment.
and work days lost, by region Theft prevention: we continued to utilise logistics and type of site controls in 2013 to further reduce the probability of theft of mineral concentrate, including the use of real-time tracking technology, the use of guard services and control checkpoints in a safe corridor and reduced authorised stops in order to optimise delivery times and reduce convoys to exposure.
We invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements, and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts.
W e maintain close relations with the governmental authorities, including the army encampments installed nearby our operations.
In order to ensure the security of our personnel we suspended access to the San Nicols del Oro prospect because of the state of insecurity in Guerrero state, and also decided to postpone certain prospecting activities in certain regions of Chihuahua, Durango, Michoacn and Sinaloa.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 47 Managing our Risks continued Our principal risks continued Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 4.
Potential actions by the Government We face the risk of implementation of new We are expecting a new and more stringent Mining Link to strategy governmental requirements that will have an adverse Law to be discussed and approved in 2014, thus we 1 Operate impact on us, such as the Mexican Tax Reform as continue to participate in industry and government 2 Develop well as the mining duties approved in 2013, or other meetings and events to continuously monitor the potential, not yet materialised, new or more stringent political and regulatory environment, including tax 3 Explore ecological or explosives regulations e. g. banning open and mining law reforms.
4 Sustainability pit mining, the use of cyanide, etc.. We collaborate with other members of the mining The current tax regime introduces two mining duties community via the Mexican Mining Chamber to lobby to holders of mining concessions at a rate of 7.5% of a against new detrimental taxes royalties or regulations.
Key risk indicators base similar to EBITDA and an additional 0.5% applicable At the same time, we strive for maximum resilience Number of media mentions to income from the sale of gold, silver and platinum.
by maintaining low-cost of production and a strong related to mining regulations capital position.
i. e. tax royalties banning The potential likelihood of new ecological regulation is of mining activities in protected currently highly uncertain.
However, stricter regulation We maintain strict control in receiving, handling, storing areas and prole of those on explosives is expected due to their interconnection and dispatching explosives in each of our operations quoted political parties, with security risk and their misuse by criminal groups.
Public perception against mining Public opinion globally is increasingly concerned The Company collaborates with peers in the Link to strategy with the potential adverse social and environmental international and Mexican mining community to 1 Operate consequences of opening and developing mining pursue an industry response to this risk.
This growing sentiment manifests Our formal programme for community itself through increased regulatory obligations for 3 Explore engagement includes: mining companies and increased social activism by 4 Sustainability Conducting community perception surveys and communities and other grass roots organisations.
monitoring public opinion within the local media newspapers, radio stations, local channels.
Key risk indicators Tracking and following up on concerns reported Number of local actions by by the community, maintaining open and NGOs or other local social transparent communications, and clarifying any groups against mining, by region miscommunications that could be used to target the Companys reputation.
Number of actions by NGOs or other local social groups against Working with communities at an early exploration mining in the Americas stage to understand their needs and communicate the benets of developing and operating a mine in terms of social welfare and quality of life.
| 48 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 6.
Projects Pursuing advanced exploration and development Our investment evaluation process determines Link to strategy opportunities, which are core to meeting our strategic how to best direct available capital using technical, 2 Develop goals, carry certain project-related risks: financial and other qualitative criteria.
Economic viability: impact of capital cost to Technical: we assess the resource estimate and develop and maintain the mine, future metals prices confirmed resources, metallurgy of the mineral and operating costs through the mines life cycle.
bodies, investment required in general infrastructure e. g. roads, power, general services, housing and Uncertainties associated with developing and infrastructure required for the mine and plant.
operating new mines: uctuations in ore grade Key risk indicators and recovery, unforeseen complexities in the mining Financial: we look at risk relative to return for proposed process, poor rock quality, unexpected presence Earned value rate of financial investments of capital.
We set expected internal rates of water, lack of community support, and inability advancement rate vs. of return IRR per project as thresholds for approving to obtain and maintain required operating permits.
physical advancement the allocation of capital based on the present value Delivery risk: projects may go over budget in of expected cash ows from the invested capital.
Percentage of major equipment terms of cost and time, or may not be constructed in ordered and received according Other qualitative factors: e. g. alignment of the accordance with the required specications, or major to plan investment with our strategic plan and business model: mining equipment may not be delivered in time.
Percentage of completion synergies with other investments and operating assets: of mine development implications for safety, security, people, resourcing and community relations.
We closely monitor our project controls to ensure we deliver approved projects on time, on budget and as per dened specications.
The Executive Management team and Board of Directors are regularly updated on progress.
Each advanced exploration project and major capital development project has a risk register containing the identied and assessed risks specic to the project.
In 2012, the Board approved the San Julin project with an investment of US$500 million: at the end of 2013, the progress was 16.1% vs. 16.7% planned.
The expenses incurred and committed are on budget.
The major risk factor specic to this project is to determine a sufficient water supply for when the mine becomes operational.
The Company continues to invest in geo-hydrological and geo-physical studies for water supply.
In 2013, the Board approved the Saucito II project with an investment of US$235 million: at the end of December 2013, the progress was 40.6% in line with plan.
The major risk factor specic to this project is to face an unexpected presence of water that could delay the development of the mining works.
At the Centauro Deep project, our efforts continue to focus on identifying an adequate and profitable mining system, thus we plan to continue exploration to confirm the nature of the mineral and mechanical and hydrological characteristics.
During 2013, we faced a particular setback with regards to the explosives permit, since resolved, thus the advance in the development works was severely impacted in the second half of the year.
A new explosives permit was granted by the Ministry of Defence in early 2014, allowing for a resumption of exploration activity.
The major risk driver at the Orisyvo project is metallurgical recovery.
We continue researching and performing tests on mineral processing options.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 49 Managing our Risks continued Our principal risks continued Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 7.
Safety Inherent to our industry is the risk of incidents due to We are committed to offering a safe workplace to our Link to strategy unsafe acts or conditions causing injuries or fatalities workers and contractors.
We aspire to a safety culture 4 Sustainability to our people.
where our personnel have the knowledge, competence and desire to work safely.
Our people face risks of re, explosion, electrocution and carbon monoxide poisoning, as well as risks Our strategy is based on: specic to each mine site and development project, Managing our knowledge of safety through for example, rock falls caused by geological conditions, identifying and analysing risks, evaluating controls, collisions of equipment in large operations, cyanide performing situational assessments, and contamination, collisions between equipment and Key risk indicators monitoring performance.
Safe behaviour index Engaging our stakeholders through the percentage of work observed No more accidents process, which has become that is executed safely a permanent programme to reinforce the safety in accordance with the culture.
This programme includes Leaders for Companys safety procedures Safety, Behavioural Change, Operational Discipline, Rules that Save Lives, and comprehensive Unsafe conditions eliminated accident investigation.
index percentage of unsafe conditions observed Launching initiatives to embed safety in our and recorded that have culture.
Safety culture is routinely monitored to been eliminated assess the attitudes, behaviours and disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions.
Operational procedures availability index percentage Other mitigating activities include: of required safety procedures Support staff were hired in 2013 to reinforce the that are available safety teams in our operating business units.
Development of our internal capabilities to reduce our reliance on external experts.
Training, including reinforcing employee and contractor instruction.
We conducted 257,767 hours of safety training in 2013.
See pages 81-83 for more on our safety strategy.
| 50 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 8.
Exploration We are highly dependent on the success of the We invest heavily in our exploration programme, Link to strategy exploration programme to meet our targets in terms aiming to maintain a consistent exploration budget 3 Explore of strategic value-creation and our long-term across metals cycles.
The budgeted risk capital invested production and reserves goals.
in exploration for 2014 is US$225.0 million, with 37% of the budget allocated to exploration around major Risk factors that may impact prospecting and projects and the remainder to a combination of mine converting inferred resources apart from the growing site exploration, prospects and regional prospecting.
level of insecurity and access to land include not having a robust portfolio of prospects in our pipeline We also ensure we have: with sufficient potential in terms of indicated and Key risk indicators A focus on increasing the regional exploration inferred resources, and insufficient concession and programme to locate new districts with high potential Drill programmes completed surface right coverage in target areas.
overall and by project For local exploration, aggressive in-eld exploration As our production escalates and more mines programme to convert inferred resources approach the end of their lives, it becomes increasingly into reserves.
challenging to replenish their reserves.
A team of highly trained and motivated geologists, both employees and longterm contractors.
During 2013, we revised our portfolio of concessions and determined that some did not have the expected potential: thus, we voluntarily relinquished 134,538 hectares in order to focus our efforts on areas of greater potential.
A dvisory technical reviews by international third party experts up-to-date and integrated GIS databases and software for identifying favourable metallurgical belts and districts Drill-ready projects To remain in line with industry standards with regard to the estimation of reserves and resources, we applied the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code 2012 that came into effect on 1 December 2013.
See pages 72-75 for more on our exploration programmes and investment.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 51 Managing our Risks continued Our principal risks continued Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 9.
Human resources Our people are critical to delivering our objectives.
Recruitment: We assessed our hiring requirements Link to strategy We face risks in selecting, recruiting, training and for key positions in the 2013-2018 period, and aim to 1 Operate retaining the people we need.
meet openings through internal training and promotion, 2 Develop and by recruitment through: Although we have a risk of union action or degradation 3 Explore Our close relationships with universities offering of union relations at some sites, our overall relationship 4 Sustainability earth sciences programmes we have dedicated continues to strengthen and this risk has decreased.
programmes to identify potential candidates based The lack of reliable contractors with adequate on performance who may be hired as interns infrastructure, machinery, performance and skilled and or residents on graduation.
Key risk indicators people is also a risk that might affect our ability to CETEF Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo which develop and construct mining works.
Number of positions lled by teaches specic mining operational skills: 14 of the area of specialty, for vacancies 2013 graduates joined the Company as full-time and new positions employees.
We welcomed the new cohort of mining Employee turnover rate technicians with 12 students who will graduate in 2014.
Average hours of training and professional development CETLAR the Peoles Centre for Technical Studies per employee which trains mechanics and electrical technicians: eight of the 2013 graduates joined the Company as full-time employees.
Retention: We provide a stable labour environment, strong corporate culture committed to our people, good working conditions, competitive benets and career development opportunities.
Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining contracts.
We invest signicantly in training contractors, particularly on safety and environmental requirements.
We support ten of our major contractor companies in their integration into the first level Self-Management Programme on Safety and Health at Work PASST, promoted by the Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare STPS.
Unions: We have clearly assigned responsibilities and programmes for maintaining close relationships with unions at mine site and at the national level.
We engage experienced legal counsel, both internal and external, to support us.
We are proactive and timely in our responses to the needs of the unions, and experienced no labour-related work stoppages in 2013.
| 52 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 10.
Environmental incidents Inherent to our industry is the risk of environmental We have an environmental management system Link to strategy incidents such as overow collapse of tailings dams, to ensure effective compliance with regulations 4 Sustainability cyanide spills and dust emissions, among others, and support initiatives that reduce our any of which could have a high potential impact environmental footprint.
on our people, communities and business.
During 2013, we met our zero environmental incidents target.
All our operations are certied under ISO 14001 and have Clean Industry certication except for Key risk indicators Saucito, which is in the process of obtaining both.
Number of business units BUs The Herradura mine is certied in the International with ISO 14001:2004 certication Cyanide Management Code and Cinega is in the process of obtaining it.
Number of BUs with Clean Industry certication We rigorously adhere to the requirements established by each projects environmental permit Number of BUs with Environmental Impact Manifest.
We also support International Cyanide contractors in their efforts to integrate environmental Code certication management systems.
Number of BUs with OSHAS 18001: 2007 certication See pages 84-87 for more on our environment strategy.
Number of BUs integrated into the Self-Management programme of the Mexican Secretariat of Labour STPS Number of environmental permits for all advanced exploration projects according to schedule | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 53
