Risk management Managing risk effectively risk.
These responsibilities were previously undertaken by the group Our aim is to deeply embed risk management head of internal audit.
The new Board Risk Committee appointed disciplines which support effective strategy execution Deloitte to conduct a review of the groups risk management processes and then charged the group director of risk and programme assurance to develop a plan to respond to the fi findings OUR RISKS and recommendations.
During the year, Regional Risk and Audit The market sectors in which G4S provides security services present Committees were established to be responsible for assessing risk unique operational and health and safety risks which must be managed at a regional level and for monitoring the mitigation of risk and effectively in order to provide value to customers and to protect our addressing internal and external audit matters at a regional level.
The breadth of countries in which G4S operates, together with continuing uncertainty of global economic conditions, also presents WHAT WE WILL DO IN 2014 fi financial control and commercial risks similar to those of other Regional Risk and Audit Committees will meet quarterly, the fi first multinational companies.
meetings having taken place in January 2014.
A new approach to assessing risks has been defi ned and during 2014 this is being HOW WE MANAGE OUR RISKS implemented across the business, supported by an updated risk Our risks are captured in a global risk reporting information system.
This system will better support the These risks are reviewed and updated twice a year by the operating risk identifi cation, assessment and action tracking process as well as companies.
The Group Executive Committee and Board Risk providing enhanced risk reporting at all levels of the group.
Committee review the most signifi cant risks on a regular basis and As a service business many of our risks stem from the contract bidding, the board regularly reviews the overall impact of these major risks mobilisation and service delivery lifecycle.
In the fi first quarter of 2014, on the groups activities.
new processes for contract take-on and on-going assurance will be implemented to give greater scrutiny to the delivery of the groups WHAT WE DID IN 2013 most complex contracts.
Based on contract style, complexity and risk profi le, these processes will ensure that, at all stages throughout the As announced by the board in September 2012, G4S started a lifecycle, expert challenge, oversight and approval are given at regional, thorough review of its risk management processes and systems during group or board level as appropriate.
2013 and will continue to make further improvements during 2014.
Our goal in making these changes is to embed more deeply an effective During the year the company established a Board Risk Committee and risk management culture to support strategy execution and to provide created a separate risk management function for the group, appointing enhanced governance over critical business decisions.
a group director of risk and programme assurance and a group head of ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL Operating Regional Risk and Executive Risk Board Risk Board Audit Board companies Audit Committees Committee Committee Committee Our operating Risk and Audit The Executive Risk The Board Risk The Board Audit The board has companies identify Committees in Committee meets Committee meets Committee meets the ultimate and assess the each region meet three times per year three times per year four times per year responsibility for risks to their quarterly to review and considers the to set the groups to ensure that the assuring our risk business objectives regional level risks: groups principal risk appetite: to groups control management and plan review progress of residual risks and assess the groups framework is processes.
It reviews appropriate mitigating actions: the progress of principal residual operating effectively.
our most critical mitigating actions.
and to review audit mitigating actions.
risks: and to assess risks and controls, These are recorded reports, fi financial progress on the either directly or in our group-wide control status improvements being through its Risk and risk management reports, internal made to enterprise Audit Committees.
fi financial reviews and risk management.
balance sheet integrity and any accounting judgements.
34 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report LINES OF DEFENCE 3rd Line: Internal independent assurance Executive Risk Committee Group Executive Board, Audit & Risk 2nd Line: Control & oversight functions Committee Committees Regional Risk, Audit & Executive 1st Line: Business operations & support Committees EXTERNAL AUDIT We employ three lines of defence to control and manage risks across The third line is designed to detect or prevent unexpected outcomes the group.
The responsibility for the fi first line sits with the managers of and comprises the group risk and internal audit functions.
Together our businesses, whether line management or fi financial support.
The these provide independent assurance over the design and operation senior management team within each business is responsible for of controls.
As part of its annual programme of work, the internal implementing and maintaining appropriate controls across their audit function conducts regular reviews of risk management processes business to ensure the standards expected by the group, our customers and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the and other stakeholders are met.
The business managers are supported control environment.
by oversight functions at both regional and group level including Risk, Our external auditors provide independent oversight of the Finance and Legal which together make up the second line of defence.
CONTRACT RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL Bid risk Contract On-going contract Bid approval Group internal audit Board assessment mobilisation assurance Based on fi financial, Appropriate Based on the Based on the Internal audit The board will legal, reputational challenge is given to complexity and commercial scale conducts audits of undertake and operational the bids customer risk profi le of and level of risk, selected contracts.
occasional reviews risk criteria, the value proposition, mobilisation, contracts are of the most opportunity is commercial terms appropriate subject to regular signifi cant contracts.
referred to the and risk mitigation methodologies on-going scrutiny region, group or strategy.
The and project at regional or board for review expected risk management group level.
return of the bid resources are is assessed before applied.
Key approval is given contractual or withheld.
requirements and risk mitigation strategies are mapped to accountable contract managers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 35
