Principal risks What are the key risks faced by G4S?
During January 2014 the Regional Risk and Audit The potential impact of each risk was assessed on Committees met to agree the regional principal a 1 to 5 scale against fi five criteria: strategy, fi financial, residual risks.
These meetings were facilitated by reputation, service delivery, and health and safety, group risk management and identifi ed the risks to with the highest score being the overall impact.
The each regions strategic business objectives and to likelihood of each risk over the next year, or to three on-going business operations.
The meetings were year strategic goals, was also assessed on a 1 to 5 informed by the country level risks recorded in the scale.
The risks detailed in the following pages are groups risk management systems.
those which in aggregate scored 3.5 or higher on both impact and likelihood.
Detailed descriptions are Group risk management and the CFO consolidated provided of each risk, its movement since last year, its these risks and identifi ed common themes and potential impact and the mitigation strategies being regional risks which were material to the group.
These group principal residual risks were reviewed and approved by the Executive Risk Committee and the Risk Committee of the board.
Movement since 2012 Risk description Mitigation CULTURE & VALUES There has been a strong G4S provides security to people, premises and We have in place high ethical standards and policies emphasis from the board, the valuable assets.
In its care & justice services businesses which we expect our staff to observe globally and CEO and the group executive it also provides services which interact with detainees, these are reinforced through awareness and training committee on the importance victims of crime, those on state assistance, vulnerable programmes and monitored through audit, whistleof the companys values people and other members of the public.
This requires blowing and trading reviews.
our staff to conduct themselves with the utmost Senior managers performance contracts and bonuses Progress has been made in this integrity.
We operate in 120 countries around the are in part based upon adherence to our values.
area, but reinforcing the core world with a diversity of local and national cultures.
During 2013, our new CEO and the executive values across a diverse and These factors mean that having a strong set of team has reiterated the importance of our values globally spread workforce corporate values that unite the organisation, deeply in delivering customer service and sustainable takes considerable effort.
embedded in our culture, is of particular importance.
During 2014 we will be examining If we fail to behave in accordance with the high our HR processes to ensure that they fully support standards that we set ourselves there is a risk that our values: we are refreshing our whistle-blowing we will not deliver on our commitment to customers, policy: and we will continue to reinforce the group and fail to comply with legislation and international values at every opportunity.
We may also compromise the safety and values is assessed through performance reviews, security of our employees and the assets or people trading reviews, business self-assessments and audit.
This can lead to penalties, failure to renew contracts and ultimately reduced profi tability and damage to our global brand and reputation.
36 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Increased risk Reduced risk No change Movement since 2012 Risk description Mitigation HEALTH & SAFETY There has been a heightened The provision of security services, often in hostile or The Group Executive team is leading a programme focus by the board, the CEO and dangerous circumstances across such a broad diversity to strengthen safety leadership and safety practices of countries, presents particular health and safety across the group, including: the group executive committee challenges.
The protection of our staff, people in our on the importance of health Critical country reviews: conducting detailed care and third parties, including the public, is of utmost and safety.
assessments and developing mitigation plans in importance.
those countries and operations where we have identifi ed the greatest risks.
The principal health and safety risks are work-related attacks and road traffi c accidents.
In 2013, 55 2012: Establishing a new group wide standard for health 59 employees lost their lives.
We are committed to and safety management systems.
strengthening our health and safety systems, processes Health and safety resource: We made a number and cultures.
of new appointments across the group and at Fatalities and serious injuries to our staff impact not the beginning of 2014 we had 110 dedicated only the individuals concerned, but also their families, health and safety professionals, assisting us to reduce loved ones and other dependents.
Safety leadership training and awareness is now mandatory for all senior managers.
In addition, each member of the Group Executive team and each of their teams has specifi c health and safety performance objectives in 2014.
In support of our health and safety programme, we have established a new group value called Safety First.
PEOPLE G4S human resource processes We are a people business and we take great care We use rigorous recruitment, selection, screening are well established and effective.
to ensure that we employ the best people to deliver and induction processes and standards to ensure that Nevertheless, there will always quality services to our customers.
As the largest we employ the best people, with the right values, be challenges in attracting and employer listed on the London Stock Exchange, for the requisite roles.
Standards are set by group retaining employees.
employing 618,000 people worldwide, and the largest human resources and measured and enforced through security solutions provider in the world, our customers a combination of regular staff surveys, country choose G4S because of the level of screening, training, self-assessments, monitoring of regional and country integrity and trustworthiness.
specifi c KPIs and independent audits: all driving constant improvements in processes.
In a global and diverse business such as ours, there are risks associated with recruiting, robust screening, Attracting and developing the right talent is the key motivating, developing and training, as well as to our success and we have a process for identifying appropriately rewarding and retaining our high potential employees and putting in place career critical talent.
development plans to promote them into more senior positions.
We engage our employees through our Failure to recruit and retain key managers and staff PRIDE model: and to motivate and develop them can impact service delivery, customer retention and business P rotect their basic needs management, which in turn can adversely affect our R espect them as individuals fi financial performance.
I nvolve them in the business D evelop their skills and potential E ngage them fully Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 37 Principal risks continued Movement since 2012 Risk description Mitigation BRAND REPUTATION The nature of the services we The companys brand is well known and associated We continue to cooperate fully with the SFO provide means that we are often with high quality security services around the world.
In addition, we have an on-going in the public eye.
However, the However, recent events in the UK had an adverse programme of corporate renewal.
This is supported issues which have arisen around impact on our reputation, in particular with the UK by the broader changes being made across the group a number of our high profi le Government.
Furthermore, as detailed in the chief to leadership, governance and contract management contracts over the last two years executives review, our performance under certain and assurance: as well as by the heightened focus on have undermined the companys UK electronic monitoring contracts was referred corporate values and ethics.
In order to ensure timely brand and reputation, particularly to the Serious Fraud Offi ce SFO.
progress this programme is being monitored directly as a trustworthy strategic by the group executive and the board and being There is a risk that until our reputation is suffi ciently supplier to the UK Government.
independently reviewed by a fi rm of accountants repaired and the SFO investigation concluded, our on behalf of the UK Government.
sales pipeline could be impacted.
The fi first key step to repairing our reputation is rebuilding the confi dence At individual region and country level there is a of the UK Government in G4S as a strategic supplier.
strong focus on delivering excellent customer service There is a risk that the changes we are implementing in order to protect and enhance our local brand to this end take time to be accepted as suffi cient by and reputation.
We are investing in the strengthening of our risk management, audit and customer service capacity.
MAJOR CONTRACTS The companys strategy is to The group has a number of long-term, complex, high The company has tightened the criteria and level of provide integrated security value contracts with multi-national, government or scrutiny for regional and group level legal review of solutions to customers, which other strategic customers.
The companys growth complex contracts during the bid cycle.
often results in taking on more strategy includes a greater focus on higher value, The group has implemented a standardised complex contracts.
The company and more technology-rich services.
This will increase approach to project management for complex is implementing improvements the complexity and individuality of customer mobilisations in the UK, which will be rolled out to bid assessment, programme requirements and contracts.
External project management management and assurance For such contracts there are risks to the group resource is utilised in cases when insuffi cient internal and new contract management accepting onerous contractual terms: mobilising capability is in place.
The group is also strengthening processes.
These will take time contracts well: transitioning effectively from its processes for bid assessment, contract take-on to bed in.
mobilisation to on-going contract management: and on-going contract assurance.
delivering to contractual requirements: managing complex billing arrangements: managing contract change control: and managing sub-contractors.
Failure to ensure effective contract take-on, mobilise successfully and manage complex contracts effectively throughout their lifecycles can impact customer satisfaction, reputation, revenue, cash fl ow, and profi tability.
38 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Increased risk Reduced risk No change Movement since 2012 Risk description Mitigation DELIVERY OF CORE SERVICE LINES Our commitment to delivering We deliver our core secure solutions services in We have developed the G4S Way, which defi fines sustainable growth and 100 markets and our core secure cash transportation best practice processes and standards for all aspects shareholder value is founded services in 61 markets.
A number of these businesses of service delivery with the aim of improving service on delivering on our customer have been acquired over time, resulting in cultural excellence and margin.
The G4S Way is being commitments.
There is a differences, varying degrees of operational maturity implemented globally across all our businesses.
It sets continuous focus on this at the and a multiplicity of information systems.
out requirements for managing contract take-on group executive.
In addition, and mobilisation: completion of risk assessments: This can create risks around core operational service through the investments in the management of security assignments at customer delivery and supporting functions.
Failure to meet service excellence centres and site levels: and defi fines service delivery KPIs to the service delivery requirements of our customers, and within the regions and measure compliance.
Minimum guidelines have been because we have not implemented the right solutions countries, we continued to make set for key areas such as control room management: or followed appropriate agreed procedures, can improvements in the processes security offi cer communications: fl eet routing and create risks around cash losses: attacks on our staff, and systems in many of our scheduling: resource planning and staff rostering: subcontractors or third parties: and the non-delivery core businesses over the course and escalation procedures for duress attack of the service level agreements and KPIs agreed with of 2013. absence situations.
Recent developments in our secure solutions business Additional risks relate to business resilience, control include deployment of our core operating system, systems, and the availability of critical systems, facilities Saturn, to effi ciently match our security offi cer and people to perform contractually agreed services.
In our cash solutions business we have put in place a dedicated This can lead to fi financial penalties, and negatively risk management team to ensure robust risk analysis impact customer retention and goodwill, to the and rectifi cation of deviations from our minimum detriment of fi financial performance.
Our countries are required to have business continuity and crisis management plans in place and to test them regularly.
We are also making on-going improvements to the effi ciency and effectiveness of supporting and control systems.
LAWS & REGULATIONS The products and services we G4S operates in many jurisdictions globally, within Each country in the group puts in place rigorous provide are subject to the complex and diverse regulatory frameworks.
compliance policies, standards and controls, including ever-changing legal landscape training, to assure adherence to local laws, regulations An additional complexity arises from the extraacross the many jurisdictions in and licence requirements.
We review existing policies territorial reach of some of the legislation to which which we operate, requiring in light of changes to legislation and recent case law.
constant monitoring and The group has good procedures in place to ensure change to ensure compliance.
Risks include increasing litigation and class actions that our businesses are complying with anti-bribery especially in the United States: bribery and corruption: & corruption legislation, including self-assessments: a obtaining operating licences: complying with local tax training and awareness programme for staff in sensitive regulations: changes to employment legislation: positions: an independent audit of the effectiveness of complying with human rights legislation: and new or our procedures: and confi dential reporting hotlines.
changed restrictions on foreign ownership.
Risk also arises from new or changing regulations which require We build positive constructive relationships with modifi cation of our processes and staff training.
governments and related agencies by engaging in the legislative process directly and through local trade The necessary changes to ensure continued associations.
Our aim is to support governments to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or craft legislation that achieves its aims in relation to our not being compliant, have far reaching consequences, industry in as effi cient and effective a way as possible.
including higher costs from claims and litigation: inability to operate in certain jurisdictions, either through direct ownership or joint ventures: loss of management control: damage to our reputation: and loss of customer confi dence.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 39 Principal risks continued Movement since 2012 Risk description Mitigation GROWTH STRATEGY The group has placed a greater Our growth strategy is to leverage our expertise We are investing in sales and business development emphasis on higher value to expand our core service lines into more complex, resources to support growth and to strengthen our solution development and sales, outsourcing areas which increase long-term customer solution selling capability.
It partnerships: to focus on organic growth opportunities We have established a single capital pool for all key will take time to mobilise and with less reliance on acquisitions: and to leverage investments and have revised our investment approval build the right capabilities to our expertise in security systems technology across processes to approve only those capital requests deliver this strategy.
that demonstrate an appropriate balance of risk and There are risks that we will fail to optimise our return.
This is designed to ensure we make the right product mix: fail to build the sales and solutions investments to support the strategy.
A revised major capability we need: fail to leverage our existing bid assessment process has been implemented which expertise and resources into the areas where we will ensure that the key opportunities which underpin can best achieve organic growth targets: or that our growth strategy are properly positioned, we will under-invest or invest in the wrong areas.
Failing to create higher value solutions that Rigorous trading and performance reviews for each differentiate us from local competitors could impact business unit enable us to monitor progress against targeted growth in revenues and margins.
our strategic goals on a periodic basis.
Our on-going capability review process will ensure we build the right skills needed to underpin the delivery of the strategy.
GEO-POLITICAL Given the wide range of We operate in 120 countries across the developed We have a great deal of experience of operating in countries in which the group and developing world, with wide-ranging government a wide range of diffi cult territories.
We collaborate operates there will always be and political systems, differing cultural landscapes, and with our local partners and or agents: conduct some with a degree of serious varying degrees of rule of law: and within confl ict and early risk assessments before and during security political instability.
We take post-confl ict zones.
assignments: have robust operating procedures: and great care with our operations work closely with our local and global customers in The risk factors range from political volatility, in these countries to monitor managing the risks of operating in such environments.
revolution, terrorism, military intervention and the situation closely and We have a global process for assessing the geoinsurgency.
political risks of different countries which determines the types of customers we will serve and the types The geo-political risks we face impact us in many of services we will provide.
ways: the health and safety of our staff and customers: the continued operation of our businesses: and the ability to secure our assets and recover our profi ts.
40 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Increased risk Reduced risk No change Movement since 2012 Risk description Mitigation INFORMATION SECURITY The sophistication of cyber G4S has an obligation to safeguard the information G4S has cyber security controls in place to protect hackers increases continuously that our customers, partners and employees entrust information.
and the heightened high profi le to our care.
In 2013, we appointed a group head of information reputation of the group in the Given G4S' high profi le, we are at risk of cyber and security who has developed a strategy to improve UK in particular make us a physical attack by criminal organisations and individual our information security maturity.
This strategy will potential target.
Whilst we do have strong protection in place, be rolled out across the group to reduce the the threat is increasing.
If an attempt is successful, our likelihood of a successful attack and to increase the information systems could be compromised or our ability of G4S to detect and respond to attacks.
A successful attack could result in: censure and fi fines by national governments: loss of confi dence in the G4S brand and reputation: specifi c loss of trust by clients, especially those in government and fi financial sectors: disruption to service delivery and integrity, particularly in cash solutions operations.
CASH LOSSES Through the work of the service We have cash solutions businesses spread across Our cash solutions service excellence centre SEC excellence centres working with the world responsible for cash held on behalf of our works in collaboration with the regions to embed the regions, improvements have customers.
We provide cash transportation from one robust procedures into every cash business to mitigate been made to processes and site to another in high security vehicles, a range of cash losses.
Innovative security defence products are systems in many of our cash cash management services including secure storage, in use, ranging from pavement box tracking to vehicle solutions businesses over the counting, reconciliation and sorting of notes for protection foam and protective pavement boxes.
ATMs, a range of ATM services and secure All cash transactions are subject to strict authorisation international transportation of cash and valuables.
limits and we have very tightly controlled cash There are inherent risks in this business related reconciliation procedures to ensure cash is fully to external attacks, internal theft and poor accounted for and controlled and these procedures cash reconciliation.
are subject to constant monitoring and audits.
We also have a robust process to monitor all cash-related Cash losses can have a major impact for our incidents through a team of security specialists and customers and ourselves in respect of loss of profi t, we ensure that lessons learned are shared through increased cost of insurance and health and safety the SEC.
considerations for our staff and the public.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 41
