Type of Risk Impact Strategic implications Mitigating actions Principal risks Management of risk Incidents on our sites affect our employees, all others who work on our sites We prioritise the need to provide a safe working environment and promote Group Health, safety & environmental and members of the public.
Incidents affect our reputation and have a direct health, safety and environmental issues, and have a comprehensive policy financial impact on the business and our management resources.
and framework to manage these risks.
Attracting, developing and retaining talented individuals at all levels of the Our human resources policies are based on the Investors in People Group People business is crucial to our success.
principles, under which we are accredited.
We carry out annual succession planning and have a training and development programme designed to optimise career satisfaction.
The Group requires funding to finance its development, project and working Funding is provided by equity and bank borrowings.
We constantly monitor Availability of financing Group capital requirements.
levels of available funding and compliance with our bank covenants, and have facilities in place until May 2015.
Our focus on margin enhancement, construction cash resources and using existing landbanks should also help us to generate increased cash flows within the business.
Identifying, The Group increasingly relies on its established portfolio of brands within its The Groups key brands and intellectual property IP are subject to rigorous Group brand portfolio & Group markets, supply chain and wider environments.
We constantly monitor the market place to ensure no evaluating and maintenance will damage the brands leverage and impinge on financial performance.
contravention of our IP rights or misuse of our brands.
managing our Failure to meet increasing sustainability regulations on homes for sale, or We have a programme to develop sustainable homes in accordance with Group Sustainability being unable to deliver sustainable solutions in line with our construction projected requirements and a strategy to improve our understanding of principal risks and clients requirements, will affect our ability to sell homes or secure projects.
Group risks include stakeholder risks, legal and regulatory obligations, The board takes responsibility for, and prioritises management of, all uncertainties is Other Group factors Group optimising insurance cover, non availability of key assets, risk of failure of IT or stakeholder interests.
Each functional team has policies and procedures financial management systems, and pensions.
designed to identify and manage risks appropriate to their remit.
Regular board meetings facilitate cross-functional communication of anticipated integral to the way potential issues.
The Group also operates contingency and disaster recovery policies to mitigate any potential financial or reputational damage.
The state of the economy and the global financial system affect consumer We monitor Government and industry data on housing prices, sales volumes Changes to the UK housing Housebuilding confidence and the housing market.
This influences the price that our and construction commencement data, enabling us to anticipate market market and the economic cycle purchasers are prepared to pay for their homes and, by deducting the building changes and adjust our land acquisition plans, build programmes, sales and all other costs of development, the price and terms under which the releases and purchaser incentives accordingly.
Group purchases land for development.
Acquiring land at the wrong price, or underestimating development costs, We have a rigorous pre-acquisition site appraisal process withstrict Housebuilding Land acquisition could affect our financial return from development projects.
authority levels covering purchase, construction and sales, enabling us to alter plans and adapt to changes where necessary.
The availability, cost and terms under which our purchasers can secure We monitor published statistics on mortgage approvals and lending, Housebuilding Availability of mortgage finance mortgage finance affects both their ability to purchase and the price they analysing the impact on potential customers across the different market We have policies and procedures throughout our canpay.
sectors and the prices of properties we sell.
We then adjust our development operations that enable us toidentify, evaluate and plans and our purchaser incentives, such as part exchange facilities and shared equity.
We also monitor other influences on the mortgage market, manage risk, embedded within our management such as Government initiatives to improve mortgage availability and structure and operating processes.
registers at Group, divisional and business unit level that detail identified risks, relate them to the Groups A healthy land market provides us with the raw material on which to build.
A We maintain a landbank that balances plots with full planning consent, with Housebuilding Availability of development land objectives and rate them based on their likelihood and sustained reduction in the value of land affects land owners willingness to sell.
outline consent and zoned for residential development.
We also have Delay and uncertainty in the planning system reduces our ability to obtain the strategic land held primarily under options to purchase in the future.
We their potential impact should they materialise.
This is required supply of developable land, although restrictions are gradually being monitor public sector planning strategies both nationally and locally and then linked to how the risk is managed, the lifted and more flexibility introduced as a result of the implementation of the adjust our development plans accordingly.
responsibility for its management and the way in which National Planning Policy Framework.
The registers show the levels of residual risk, enabling the board to judge acceptability.
Public sector spending and the investment programmes of the regulated We gather published and informal intelligence on our markets, and closely Construction The level of public sector We regularly update the registers as risks change.
In infrastructure sectors affect the amount of work available and the degree of monitor our order book and pipeline of opportunities.
Our business planning spending competition for that work, potentially affecting both the level of revenues and process forecasts market trends, enabling us to match resources to addition we carry out an annual review of market profit margins achievable.
developments, Group strategy and projects being secured in the context of our risk management Confidence in the economy, combined with our private sector clients ability to Our business planning and annual budgeting process analyses data on Confidence and the availability Construction processes, to ensure they adapt to changing secure development finance, affects their spending on construction projects.
We also monitor the spending programmes of our requirements.
Carrying out this exercise, in coof project finance major clients, adapting our approach to those sectors and clients where we ordination with the boards annual review of internal see the best opportunities.
controls and their effectiveness, helps to ensure that our management of risk remains up to date and We take commercial risk on each construction contract, which includes credit We have a rigorous approach to contract selection through an authorities Construction Securing contracts relevant.
Details of the work undertaken in this area and counterparty risk, pricing and the technical ability to deliver.
Failing to matrix linking our capabilities and resources, as well as the terms under during the year are given in theGovernance report on secure construction contracts at a price and on terms that deliver an which we carry out the work.
Further specific risk management assessments acceptable return for the risk undertaken could cause potentially serious are undertaken for all major infrastructure projects.
page 48. financial and resource allocation issues.
We require a pipeline of suitable opportunities and need to ensure that we reach financial and contractual agreements without significant delays.
Failure to deliver projects on time, quality or budget, or contractual disputes We have business information systems providing profit margin and cash Project delivery Construction and supply chain issues that can arise over the scope and or valuation of forecasting by contract.
We monitor construction progress against contracts, make the ultimate outcome of contracts uncertain and could lead to programme in order to re-plan and reassess resources where applicable, financial and reputational damage for the Group.
Some of our projects take and select our supply chain carefully.
significant time to complete, which means that the cost of supplies may rise or suppliers may become insolvent while the project is in progress.
34 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Business review Type of Risk Impact Strategic implications Mitigating actions Incidents on our sites affect our employees, all others who work on our sites We prioritise the need to provide a safe working environment and promote Group Health, safety & environmental and members of the public.
The Group increasingly relies on its established portfolio of brands within its The Groups key brands and intellectual property IP are subject to rigorous Group brand portfolio & Group markets, supply chain and wider environments.
We constantly monitor the market place to ensure no maintenance will damage the brands leverage and impinge on financial performance.
Failure to meet increasing sustainability regulations on homes for sale, or We have a programme to develop sustainable homes in accordance with Group Sustainability being unable to deliver sustainable solutions in line with our construction projected requirements and a strategy to improve our understanding of clients requirements, will affect our ability to sell homes or secure projects.
Group risks include stakeholder risks, legal and regulatory obligations, The board takes responsibility for, and prioritises management of, all Other Group factors Group optimising insurance cover, non availability of key assets, risk of failure of IT or stakeholder interests.
Regular board meetings facilitate cross-functional communication of anticipated potential issues.
The availability, cost and terms under which our purchasers can secure We monitor published statistics on mortgage approvals and lending, Housebuilding Availability of mortgage finance mortgage finance affects both their ability to purchase and the price they analysing the impact on potential customers across the different market canpay.
We then adjust our development plans and our purchaser incentives, such as part exchange facilities and shared equity.
We also monitor other influences on the mortgage market, such as Government initiatives to improve mortgage availability and affordability.
A healthy land market provides us with the raw material on which to build.
A We maintain a landbank that balances plots with full planning consent, with Housebuilding Availability of development land sustained reduction in the value of land affects land owners willingness to sell.
We required supply of developable land, although restrictions are gradually being monitor public sector planning strategies both nationally and locally and lifted and more flexibility introduced as a result of the implementation of the adjust our development plans accordingly.
Public sector spending and the investment programmes of the regulated We gather published and informal intelligence on our markets, and closely Construction The level of public sector infrastructure sectors affect the amount of work available and the degree of monitor our order book and pipeline of opportunities.
Our business planning spending competition for that work, potentially affecting both the level of revenues and process forecasts market trends, enabling us to match resources to profit margins achievable.
Confidence in the economy, combined with our private sector clients ability to Our business planning and annual budgeting process analyses data on Confidence and the availability Construction secure development finance, affects their spending on construction projects.
We also monitor the spending programmes of our of project finance major clients, adapting our approach to those sectors and clients where we see the best opportunities.
We take commercial risk on each construction contract, which includes credit We have a rigorous approach to contract selection through an authorities Construction Securing contracts and counterparty risk, pricing and the technical ability to deliver.
Failing to matrix linking our capabilities and resources, as well as the terms under secure construction contracts at a price and on terms that deliver an which we carry out the work.
financial and resource allocation issues.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35
