e c n a i l e p c n m a r o u : s 2 c t s : h : 3 a 4 g l d i l l t e e s e PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place.
The Board delegates responsibility for day to day risk management to the Executive Committee including the identification, evaluation and monitoring of key risks facing the Group and the implementation of Group-wide risk management processes and controls.
The Executive Committee is supported in this by the Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk, whose role was strengthened during the year, particularly in regard to its responsibilities for risk assurance processes.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the efectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and reports to the Board on the results of its review.
The occurrence of any material control issues, serious accidents or events that have or might have a major commercial, financial or reputational impact, or the identification of new risks are escalated to the Board and or Audit Committee as appropriate.
Representatives of these functions are members of, and How GKN manages risk report their findings to, the Executive Sub-Committee on The Group has four levels of defence through which it Governance and Risk.
The Sub-Committee reports quarterly manages significant risks: to the Executive Committee on matters relating to the Groups Level 1: Risk ownership and control governance, risk management and assurance framework Our businesses are responsible for ensuring that an effective including areas of concern or proposals for improvement.
risk and control environment is maintained as part of day Level 3: Independent Assurance to day operations.
This includes the implementation of Independent assurance over the Groups risk management, procedures and controls, under the direction of the Executive control and governance processes is provided by the Groups Committee, which are designed to ensure compliance with Corporate Audit team and external assurance providers.
the Groups defined policies and procedures and the GKN Code see pages 52-54.
These front line controls are regularly Level 4: Oversight updated to respond to the Groups changing risk profile.
The Board, Executive Committee and Audit Committee provide oversight and direction in accordance with their respective Level 2: Monitoring and compliance responsibilities, more information on which is set out in the Central compliance functions monitor adherence to the Governance section of this annual report.
procedures set by the Executive Committee and provide guidance to the businesses on their application.
Level 1: Risk ownership and control 42 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 n n v r e v v e e v e a L d e O L n L g e p n e i d r n o I t i n o M STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION whether we accept the risk on the basis of its Enterprise Risk Management assessed level of exposure and mitigating controls GKNs enterprise risk management ERM currently in place, or reduce the risk through programme facilitates a common, Group-wide additional mitigation to bring it in line with required approach to the identification, analysis and levels of tolerance.
assessment of risks and the way in which they are managed, controlled and monitored.
Through Monitor: The output from the ERM process is the use of an ERM software tool, risk profiling is regularly reviewed together with live tracking undertaken at plant, region business stream of delivery of planned improvement actions.
function, divisional and corporate levels.
At each level, business risks are reviewed formally at the Principal risks and uncertainties half year and year end.
The nature of the industries in which we operate and our chosen strategy expose the Group to a Identify and analyse: A broad spectrum of risks number of inherent risks.
The Board has considered are considered through the ERM process, including carefully the nature and extent of the significant those relating to strategy, operational performance, risks it is willing to take in achieving the Groups finance, product engineering and technology, strategic objectives and delivering a satisfactory business reputation, human resources, health return for shareholders.
These principal risks and and safety, and the environment.
The causes and uncertainties are summarised below according the consequences of each risk are considered and, to the strategic objective to which they relate.
They where appropriate, linked to strategic and may also impact our strategic objective to sustain operational objectives.
Manage and mitigate: Management controls Over time the risk profile evolves and hence the designed to monitor and mitigate the risks are principal risks have been updated to reflect the documented.
Risk owners are assigned for Boards view of the most important risks facing each risk.
the Group at this point in time.
New risks have Assess: The ERM tool provides a consistent set been added in respect of Joint Ventures and of definitions and a common approach to risk Integrated Systems Complexity and descriptions evaluation with specific reference to likelihood updated for other risks.
The nature of each and impact.
principal risk is further described on pages 44 to 51 together with the corresponding mitigating actions Respond: The risk response is based upon the that are in place, and an overview of the risk trend assessment of potential risk exposure and the level during 2013. of tolerance acceptable.
The response reflects Risk profile Strategic objectives Leveraging a Differentiating Leading in our strong global ourselves through Driving operational Risk Trend chosen markets presence technology excellence Other risks Increasing Highly Laws, Technology and People competitive regulations and innovation capability markets corporate Integrated Programme reputation systems Management complexity Stable Customer Operating in Health & safety Business concentration global markets continuity Information Joint ventures system Pension funding resilience Reducing Acquisition integration www.
com 43 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKETS LEADING IN OUR CHOSEN MARKETS Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation GKN operates in highly competitive markets with customer Continual review of competition and market decisions based typically on price, quality, technology and service.
Long-term contracts for major programmes are subject to highly Targeted investment in engineering and competitive bidding processes, and the strength of our competitors lean manufacturing resources, as well as and general market conditions continue to drive price pressure and maintaining strong customer relationships.
Maintaining GKNs competitive position through new product technology.
Strong competition is particularly evident in high growth markets as companies compete to be first to market and secure market The Group maintains a balanced portfolio share.
An inability or delay in developing or maintaining sufficient of businesses across its markets providing or appropriate engineering and manufacturing capabilities in high some protection against competition in growth markets could further increase the risk.
Customer vertical integration including OEMs taking production in-house, the entry of new competitors or consolidation of existing competitors also contribute to increased competition.
Potential impact Competition, if not mitigated, could result in reduced sales and profit margins and potentially lost growth opportunities in high growth markets.
An inability to secure new business on major programmes could significantly impact future growth, cash flow and profitability.
Changes during 2013 Strong competition has continued throughout 2013 with growing price pressures across the supply chains of our key markets.
In automotive, competition continues to increase in high growth markets such as China and South America, and in aerospace a number of new entrants and consolidations within the market have also further increased competition.
This includes the emergence of government-backed manufacturers, with OEM support, in countries with growing aviation industries.
See the strategic report page 11 for more information on the trends in each of our markets.
CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION LEADING IN OUR CHOSEN MARKETS Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Significant customer concentration exists in the automotive and The Group regularly reviews its exposure aerospace industries and hence a significant portion of the Groups to individual customers and contracts.
revenues comes from a relatively small number of customers.
The Group has extensive and regular Around 50% of the Groups revenue is derived from its top 10 dialogue with key customers and strong customers.
Credit exposure is actively reviewed Potential impact and managed.
The insolvency of, damage to relations, or significant worsening of commercial terms with a major customer could have a material adverse impact on the Groups future results, and could result in loss of market share and future business opportunities, asset write-offs and restructuring actions.
Changes during 2013 There have been no significant changes in the OEM customer landscape with the proportion of business from the Groups top 10 customers remaining stable during 2013.
No individual customer accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue.
See page 11 of the strategic report for more information on key customer trends and page 141 note 19c on Credit Risk.
44 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION LAWS, REGULATIONS AND CORPORATE REPUTATION LEVERAGING A STRONG GLOBAL PRESENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations in the Group-wide governance policies and global jurisdictions and industries in which it operates.
This procedures, ongoing compliance training includes certain territories where strong ethical standards may and strong oversight, including not be well established and certain industries which are highly consideration of issues that could impact regulated.
Regulations include those related to export controls, the corporate brand and reputation.
environmental and safety requirements, tax laws, intellectual Ongoing monitoring of regulatory property rights, competition laws and ethical business practices.
Potential impact Non-compliance could expose the Group to fines, penalties, damage to reputation, suspension or debarment from government contracting or suspension of export privileges.
Changes during 2013 The Group is exposed to an ever more stringent governance and regulatory environment and has again expanded its presence in territories where ethical standards may not be as well established as in other markets.
Whilst there has been little new regulation in the year, enforcement activities by the authorities in relation to existing regulations have increased.
The acquisition of the aero engine division of AB Volvo in October 2012 increased the proportion of Groups business subject to export control regulations.
See pages 52 to 54 and 67 to 68 for more information on governance policies and procedures.
OPERATING IN GLOBAL MARKETS LEVERAGING A STRONG GLOBAL PRESENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation GKN operates globally and as such our results could be impacted The Group has a diversified portfolio of by global and regional changes in macro-economic and political businesses across its markets providing conditions, regulatory environment, consumer demand and some protection against individual market preferences, and supply chain volatility.
Lead market indicators are kept under Our businesses could be impacted by changing consumer review so that we can respond quickly confidence and associated volatility in automotive demand: to changing trading conditions.
challenging credit conditions resulting in lack of access to Our mitigation strategy also includes: finance by customers and end consumers: delay of orders for civil aircraft and changes in the amount or timing of US military planning, budgeting and forecasting spending: volatility in agricultural, construction, mining and processes industrial markets: exchange rate fluctuations: and volatility flexible management of variable and in the supply chain.
fixed cost base, investment spending and working capital Potential impact Significant or prolonged economic instability or financial market further diversification into other sectors deterioration, including movements in exchange rates of key which present new opportunities currencies, may materially and adversely impact the Groups focused restructuring activities, operational performance and financial condition.
This may include where necessary, to respond to markets impairment of assets or site closures if fixed costs cannot be which have suppressed levels of managed appropriately.
It may also materially impact our economic activity.
customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we do business.
Changes during 2013 In general, the commercial aerospace and global automotive markets have grown during 2013, however the construction, mining and industrial markets remain challenging and government spending cuts continue to impact military aerospace demand.
Further commentary on the recent trends and outlook for each of our markets is set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 12 to 14 and the Business Context on pages 10 and 11.
For further details on the Groups Financial Risk Management processes regarding foreign currency exposures see page 140. www.
com 45 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED JOINT VENTURES LEVERAGING A STRONG GLOBAL PRESENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation A sizeable portion of the Groups profits and cash flows is The Group seeks to participate only generated by a small number of joint venture and equity holdings in ventures in which its interests are over which the Group exercises varying degrees of control.
In these complementary to those of its partners, circumstances, there is an inherent risk that the objectives of the and has formal systems and procedures joint venture partners in regard to the joint venture may diverge.
in place to monitor the performance of such business arrangements.
Potential impact Thorough pre-transaction due diligence Such a misalignment of objectives may result in the Groups procedures on any potential joint inability to pursue its desired strategy as a consequence of which venture partner.
the Groups business and future results may be adversely affected.
Changes during 2013 Whilst relationships with our joint venture partners remain strong, as the amount of revenue generated through joint ventures continues to increase, this potential risk has been included as a principal risk for the first time.
During the year GKN Driveline further extended its long-standing joint venture in China to cover the complete range of GKN Driveline products.
See page 135 for more information on the Groups joint ventures.
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION DIFFERENTIATING OURSELVES THROUGH TECHNOLOGY Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Developing innovative technologies for our customers is critical to Regular assessment of market and maintaining differentiation and competitive advantage.
GKN may technology trends and drivers.
lose customers to competitors offering new technologies if we are Close relationships and technical unable to adapt to or take advantage of market developments such partnerships with customers.
as changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements, Divisional technology plans aligned competitive technologies or consumer preferences.
to emerging and future trends and business strategy.
Potential impact The failure to launch new products, new product applications or Consideration of technology plans as derivations of existing products to meet customer requirements part of the Boards annual strategy review.
could have a significant impact on future profitable growth.
Focused investment in research and development.
Changes during 2013 The speed of technological change has increased as customers seek to improve the efficiency of aircraft, cars and other vehicles with solutions that are lighter and more fuel efficient.
In response, GKN is increasing the amount it invests in technology and the amount of cross-divisional projects aimed at supporting continued focus on meeting customer needs across all our markets.
Further commentary on how the Group continues to diferentiate itself through technology is included in the Delivering our Strategy section on pages 15 to 23.
46 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INTEGRATED SYSTEMS COMPLEXITY DIFFERENTIATING OURSELVES THROUGH TECHNOLOGY Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation In both our Automotive and Aerospace businesses an increasing Robust bid and contract management percentage of revenues relate to technology delivered through processes including thorough reviews integrated systems rather than individual components.
This reflects of contract terms and conditions, the demand from our customers for the design and manufacture contract-specific risk assessments and clear of efficient and sustainable solutions which support vehicles and delegations of authority for approvals.
aircraft that are more fuel efficient and help reduce emissions.
Continuous review of contract performance.
High levels of quality assurance are These integrated systems often involve long-term commitments embedded in robust manufacturing systems.
in relation to warranties, funding, quality and safety, and technical and customer requirements.
Specifically within the Aerospace Regular reporting and monitoring of quality business, the Group has Risk and Reward Sharing Partnerships performance based upon customer KPIs.
RRSPs with key engine manufacturers.
These may contain Pay to Play contractual terms and formalised risk sharing arrangements that are not always within GKN management control.
Potential impact A failure to understand or effectively manage programme commitments could damage customer relationships, and lead to unexpected liabilities and reduced longer term profitability.
Also, as these integrated solutions are increasingly used in safety critical applications, a product failure could result in serious potential liabilities, warranty claims or product recalls and as a result adversely affect GKNs financial performance and damage our reputation.
Changes during 2013 With the increasing percentage of revenues derived from integrated systems during 2013, the potential exposure has been included as a principal risk for the first time.
The increased revenues and related risk trend is principally driven by the first full year effect of the acquisition of the aero engine division of AB Volvo and continued growth of all-wheel drive and eDrive solutions in GKN Driveline.
See pages 10 to 11 and 30 to 31 of the strategic report for more information.
com 47 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED PEOPLE CAPABILITY DRIVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups ability to deliver its strategic objectives is dependent Competitive reward packages together upon the recruitment and retention of sufficiently qualified, with focused training and development experienced and motivated people.
A culture that motivates individuals It is critical for the Group to secure and maintain the relevant to perform to the best of their abilities.
capabilities in specific geographical regions and disciplines Strong succession and development in both existing markets and to support growth markets.
Potential impact The failure to recruit or loss of key personnel or the failure to plan adequately for succession or develop the potential of employees may impact the Groups ability to deliver its strategic and financial objectives.
Changes during 2013 2013 has seen a continued need for more engineering graduates and the recruitment and development of resources and capabilities aligned to our growth markets.
Important change programmes were implemented in the divisions during the year to ensure alignment of the organisation structures and leadership teams with their strategic objectives.
More information is available in the sustainability report on pages 56 and 57.
PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT DRIVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation Many of the programmes entered into by the Group are complex Robust bid procedures including thorough and lengthy, and are subject to various performance conditions reviews of contract terms and conditions, which must be adhered to throughout the programme.
The technical requirements and programme management of such programmes brings risks related to: cost forecasting.
Rigorous programme management, delays in product development or launch schedules: including investment phasing and product failure to meet customer specifications or predict testing activities.
technical problems: Periodic impairment reviews of capitalised inability to manufacture in time for the start of production development costs.
or to required production volumes: Periodic review of key programmes by dependence on key or customer nominated suppliers: the Executive Committee and the Board.
failure to manage effectively internal or customer-driven change: inability to forecast accurately and to manage costs.
Potential impact Ineffective programme management could result in damage to customer relationships or cancellation of a contract resulting in claims for loss and reputational damage.
Poor performance against a contract could also undermine the Groups ability to win future contracts and could also result in major cost overruns and significantly lower returns than expected.
Changes during 2013 Programme management risk has continued to increase in line with the move towards common global platforms in automotive and the launch of new aircraft in aerospace, together with the application of new technologies.
See pages 28 to 37 of the Business Review for more information on major new programme wins.
48 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION HEALTH AND SAFETY DRIVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation We have a fundamental duty of care to protect our people and Consistent Group-wide application of health, other stakeholders from harm whilst conducting our business.
Whilst we manage carefully this obligation through extensive Health and safety audits to ensure Group-wide processes, we recognise we can never be complacent.
adherence to Group policies and procedures.
Therefore we continue to include this as a principal risk and an area A focus on process and behavioural safety which will always be a priority for GKN.
through a number of Group-wide risk assessment and training programmes.
Potential impact A serious accident in the workplace could have a major impact on Maintenance of insurance for costs employees as well as their families, colleagues and communities.
associated with related actions or claims Such an incident could also result in legal claims where damages against the Group.
may not be fully insured, reputational damage and financial loss through fines by regulators.
Changes during 2013 Against a target of zero preventable accidents, both our key performance measures, accident frequency rate AFR and accident severity rates ASR, have shown a significant reduction in 2013.
Work continues with our thinkSAFE!
programme which was expanded in 2013 to include dont WALK BY!, an awareness programme developed to encourage all employees to identify and resolve safety and environmental concerns.
See pages 54 to 55 of the sustainability report for more information on the Groups health and safety performance.
INFORMATION SYSTEM RESILIENCE DRIVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group could be impacted negatively by information technology Formal risk-based governance framework security threats including unauthorised access to intellectual including dedicated IT security policies property or other classified information.
Interruptions to the and related compliance processes, Groups information systems could also adversely affect its day ongoing risk reviews, IT security awareness to day operations.
training and robust systems and processes to manage access, information assets, The inherent security threat is considered highest in our Aerospace threats and vulnerabilities.
business where data is held in relation to cutting edge civil External support and benchmarking aerospace technology and military contracts.
of best practice information systems Potential impact security and resilience.
A major disruption to information systems could have a significant On-going development of appropriate adverse impact on the Groups operations or its ability to trade.
The loss incident response plans and capabilities.
of confidential information, intellectual property or controlled data could Disaster recovery contingency plans which have a significant impact on the Groups reputation with its customers are regularly tested including at data and affect its ability to win future contracts.
centres where the risk is deemed to be the greatest.
Executive Committee oversight of IT security and assurance matters.
Changes during 2013 In general, the nature and volume of information security threats to business have continued to evolve during 2013.
In response, the Group has continued to strengthen its mitigating processes and controls in this area.
See page 68 of the corporate governance report for more information on the Groups IT governance.
com 49 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED ACQUISITION INTEGRATION DRIVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group considers investment in value-enhancing acquisitions The Group has robust processes to manage which support the Groups strategy and when market conditions detailed integration plans with regular are right.
reviews by divisional management, the Executive Committee and the Board.
The successful realisation of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions Post investment reviews of all acquisitions.
is dependent upon the successful integration of these businesses together with their post-acquisition performance.
Potential impact A failure to integrate effectively major acquisitions could impact the business operations and result in unplanned integration or restructuring costs, unsuccessful cultural integration and prevent achievement of anticipated acquisition benefits.
Changes during 2013 The risks related to post-acquisition integration have fallen during the year following the successful integration of the aero engine division of AB Volvo and subsequent formation of GKN Aerospace Engine Systems.
Further information on the integration programme is given in the Business Review on pages 30 to 31. BUSINESS CONTINUITY OTHER RISKS Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation A major disruption to internal facilities or external supply chain Ongoing maintenance and replacement could be caused by natural disaster, destruction of a key facility programmes for key assets and facilities.
or asset, financial insolvency of a critical supplier or scarcity Flexible sourcing arrangements for of supplies.
Effective supply chain management The Group has a small number of facilities and assets which to ensure appropriate inventory levels are key to maintaining production levels for major customers are maintained.
Targeted incident response and business In addition, certain of the Groups businesses are exposed continuity plans.
to a higher inherent risk of natural disasters because of their Monitoring of the financial and operational geographical locations.
Potential impact A sustained disruption to internal facilities, production or supply could result in major operational disruption, a significant adverse impact on our ability to meet customer requirements, result in additional contractual liabilities and have a consequential impact on financial performance.
Changes during 2013 There has been no significant change in the inherent risk profile during 2013.
All divisions continue to focus on risk mitigation, including the production, refinement and testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans, and on-going reviews of critical assets and prioritisation of capital investment.
50 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PENSION FUNDING OTHER RISKS Risk trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans with Close co-operation with scheme fiduciaries aggregate liabilities of 1,271 million at 31 December 2013.
These regarding management of pension scheme plans are exposed to the risk of changes in asset values, discount assets and liabilities, including asset rates, inflation and mortality assumptions.
Alternative funding and risk mitigation Potential impact actions are implemented where appropriate.
Increases in the pension deficit could lead to a requirement for additional cash contributions to these schemes, thereby reducing the amount of cash available to meet the Groups other operating, investment and financing requirements.
Changes during 2013 During the year, funding valuations were completed for both UK pension schemes as part of a triennial valuation cycle.
As a result, the Group has agreed with the scheme trustees a plan of additional cash contributions providing certainty over the range of medium-term funding cash flows.
See pages 40 to 41 and 148 to 154 for more information on the Groups pension arrangements.
