R t o e s P p r o o b n l e d i m s s n l s d g o n r r a e t t d n t i n r o a W C g t M S n i & a r M o n t o a i n n g i t e o t e h c o M n t g r m i a n i s r s n r e e G u s g e s S n e m v s t k K n O A e s i t i V Strategic report Risk management Risk management Our approach to risk We have rigorous processes and systems in place to help assure the integrity of our business operations which include how we identify and manage the risks that could impact our business The management of risk is an important factor in the long-term success of our business Figure 1: Governance structure of risk management Figure 1: Governance structure of risk management and is a key focus of our Board and senior management.
Sound risk management helps Responsible for our system of corporate Board of us address the inherent risks in our business governance, strategy, risk management and while creating value for shareholders, Directors financial performance protecting company assets and maintaining our focus on the fundamentals of product quality, safety and sustainability.
Responsible for reviewing and approving Audit & Risk Our aim is to identify, assess and manage risk the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk Committee at all levels of the organisation.
Employees are management and internal controls expected to take accountability for identifying and escalating encountered risks so that they can be appropriately managed.
Our risk Supports the CEO in managing our Corporate management hierarchy is focused on making business and activities Executive Team such escalation simple, rapid and transparent.
This approach allows us to balance our level and type of risk exposure with our ability to pursue our strategic priorities.
Authorised by the Board to assist the Risk Oversight Audit & Risk Committee in overseeing and Compliance The hierarchy of our risk management the risk management and internal control governance is shown in Figure 1.
The diagram Council activities of the Group summarises the linked roles, responsibilities and relationships between different oversight and management groups.
Figure 2 provides a Responsible for identifying, assessing Business units representation of the process and framework and managing risks within their business around risk management.
We are committed to conducting business in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
Our established company Ensure that appropriate internal controls for Risk Management policies, standards and internal controls, effective risk management are implemented and Compliance together with our company values, underpin Boards our approach to risk management.
Global risk management The Board is responsible for ensuring that risks that could adversely impact the company Figure 2: Our control framework are appropriately managed, with the oversight of this managed through the Audit and Risk Our internal control Committee ARC.
The ARC will take a holistic framework, in conjunction view, looking at our financial results and with our values, helps to controls, the operations or our businesses ensure that we effectively and their management of risk, as well as manage risks as we conduct considering new emerging risks.
information on the Boards responsibilities is included in the Corporate Governance We are subject to section, see page 82. inspections and audits conducted by external While the Board and ARC set the direction parties, including regulatory of our risk management and policies, it is Business agencies, to assess the our Corporate Executive Team CET that Activities adequacy of our internal has responsibility for identifying, approving, control framework.
We monitoring and enforcing key policies actively address findings concerning risks and controls that determine from these activities and how the Group conducts its business.
take appropriate corrective actions to improve our internal controls across the Group.
Key Individual Accountability Line Management Accountability with Compliance 18 GSK Annual Report 2013 Business Management Accountability with Compliance Audit & Assurance e s g n R a s u C a e l i B r d u n o p n e t a r m e s n e p M t e m e n d d E u n n I n e i p c e a t d d t n i n n e o a I n m e n e i l c p r i o c f s i n D T E r a i n i n g Accountability for monitoring Responsibility for implementing Each year, CET reviews the risks facing the It is the responsibility of ROCC to ensure each Each business unit and global support Group and agrees a list of the most significant area of the business has robust processes in function maintains a Risk Management and risks referred to as Principal risks that require place to identify risks, assign clear accountability, Compliance Board RMCB.
The purpose of particular attention from a Group perspective and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls the RMCBs is to identify specific operational, including those that could cause our actual results and mitigation plans.
Processes are in place legal, and compliance risks that may affect the to differ materially from expected and historical to ensure business units and global support achievement of business objectives and to results.
A summary of our Principal risks is set functions escalate significant operational help ensure that appropriate internal controls out below, while a full description of each risk is compliance issues, internal and external audit are implemented.
The relevant CET members presented in Risk factors on pages 232 to 241. results, and investigations to ROCC and accountable for different parts of the business then onward to ARC in a timely manner.
each present an annual report to ROCC In addition, CET considers how each of and ARC.
We expect our third parties to uphold the the Principal risks could interact across the company and have a compound impact.
same high standards we set for ourselves Our Global Risk Officer and Global Ethics and and establish appropriate governance to help Compliance team are responsible for supporting Specific accountability is assigned to designated individuals responsible for ensure that our expectations are met.
the effective integration of risk management into our business units and global support developing the overall Group approach to those Principal risks identified as having functions.
Audit & Assurance is responsible Risk management within the business a particular exposure in this regard.
for independently assessing the adequacy and Operational day-to-day management of risk effectiveness of the management of risk areas rests within the business.
We are committed The work of CET and ARC is supported by the and reporting outcomes to ROCC and ARC.
to being a responsible, values-based business Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC, These groups maintain independent reporting and management is responsible for embedding whose membership comprises senior executives lines outside of business management.
this into our culture, decision making and how representing the various business units and global we work.
support functions making up GSK.
Principal risks The Principal risks listed below are those we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
They are not listed in order of significance.
A full description of risk definition, context, potential impact and mitigating activities is set out on pages 232 to 241 in Risk factors.
Patient safety Anti-bribery and corruption Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow-up, or report adverse Failure to foster a culture within the company in which bribery events from all potential sources.
This could compromise the and corruption are unacceptable: adopt measures and embed Groups ability to conduct robust safety signal detection and procedures to prevent bribery and corruption by employees, interpretation and to ensure that appropriate decisions are taken complementary workers and through third party interactions: with respect to the risk benefit profile of the Groups products, investigate allegations of bribery and corruption and remediate including the completeness and accuracy of product labels and issues identified: and comply with applicable ABAC legislation.
the pursuit of additional studies analyses, as appropriate.
Research practices Commercial practices and scientific engagement Failure to protect and inform patients involved in human clinical Failure to engage in commercial and or scientific activities that are trial research: conduct objective, ethical preclinical and clinical trials consistent with the letter and spirit of legal, industry, or company using sound scientific principles: guarantee the integrity of discovery, requirements relating to marketing and communications about our preclinical, and clinical development data: manage human biological medicines and associated therapeutic areas: appropriate interactions samples according to established ethical standards and regulatory with healthcare professionals HCPs and patients: and legitimate expectations: treat animals ethically and practice good animal and transparent transfer of value.
welfare: appropriately disclose human subject research for medicinal products: and ensure the integrity of our regulatory filings and of the data that we publish.
Product quality Environment, health and safety and sustainability Failure to ensure product quality throughout manufacturing Failure to ethically manage environment, health and safety and and distribution processes resulting in non-compliance with sustainability consistent with company objectives, policies and good manufacturing practice GMP and regulations.
Supply chain continuity Intellectual property Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product.
Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property rights.
Financial reporting and disclosure Information protection Non-compliance with financial reporting and disclosure requirements Risk to the Groups business activity if critical or sensitive computer or changes to the recognition of income and expenses.
systems or information are not available when needed, are accessed by those not authorised, or are deliberately changed or corrupted.
Tax and treasury Crisis and continuity management Failure to comply with tax law or significant losses due to Inability to recover and sustain critical operations following treasury activities.
a disruption or to respond to a crisis incident in a timely manner regardless of cause.
