Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of a that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives.
Changes to certain regulatory regimes, such The factors below are those that we believe could cause our actual as the US healthcare system, may be substantial.
Any change in, results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
and any failure to comply with, applicable law and regulation could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly competitive and highly regulated.
Our competitors may make Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government significant product innovations and technical advances and may investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, intensify price competition.
In light of this competitive environment, antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
Litigation and continued development of commercially viable new products and the government investigations, including related provisions we may make development of additional uses for existing products are critical to for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as our ability to maintain or increase overall sales.
insurance premiums, could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
More detail on the status and various uncertainties Developing new pharmaceutical and vaccine products is a costly, involved in the significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation lengthy and uncertain process, however, and a product candidate is set out in Note 44, Legal proceedings, on page 204. may fail at any stage, including after significant Group economic and human resources have been invested.
Our competitors products or UK regulations require a discussion of mitigating activities a company pricing strategies or any failure on our part to develop commercially takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
A summary of the successful products or to develop additional uses for existing mitigation activities accompanies each principal risk to represent the products could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
main actions we have taken to manage each of our principal risks.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order We must also adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and of significance.
These requirements apply to research and development, manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Products, and affect not only the cost of product development but also the time required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value.
Patient safety Risk definition The Chief Medical Officer CMO is responsible for medical governance Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, safeguarding human from all potential sources.
This could compromise our ability to conduct subjects in our clinical trials and patients who take our products is of robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to ensure that paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk benefit profile of and addressing matters of human safety.
Individual Medical Officers and the our products, including the completeness and accuracy of product labels Groups substantial Global Safety and Pharmacovigilance keep track of any and the pursuit of additional studies analyses, as appropriate.
adverse issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Risk impact Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has an extensive The impacts of the risk include potential harm to patients, reputational post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
Information on possible side effects of medicines is received from several sources including damage, product liability claims or other litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as fines, penalties or loss of unsolicited reports from health professionals and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and scientific literature and the media.
It is our policy that product authorisation.
employees are required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or quality of its medicines.
Each of our country managers is responsible for Context monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the collection of Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development of safety information and reporting the information to the relevant central safety investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Products department, in accordance with Group policy and legal requirements.
to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use by humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the safety of our products Information that changes the benefit risk profile of one of the Groups through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical trials, unanticipated side effects medicines will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate and may become evident only when products are widely introduced into the minimise the risk.
Proposed actions are discussed with regulatory authorities marketplace.
Questions may be raised not only by our ongoing safety and can include modifying the prescribing information, communications surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by governmental agencies to physicians and other healthcare providers, restrictions on product and third-parties who may analyse publicly available clinical trial results.
prescribing availability to help assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits, trials or to withdraw the medicine from the market.
The Groups Global including class actions, that involve significant claims for damages related Safety Board GSB, comprising senior physicians and representatives of to our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently unpredictable.
supporting functions, is an integral component of the system.
The GSB Class actions that seek to sweep together all persons who were prescribed including subsidiary boards dedicated to Consumer Healthcare Products our products increase the potential liability.
Claims for pain and suffering and Vaccines reviews the safety of investigational and marketed products and punitive damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions across the Group and has the authority to stop a clinical trial if deemed and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus, possibly harmful to human volunteers.
could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the early Mitigating activities evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they arise and of potential We have constructed a system of medical governance to help ensure claims even before they arise.
The goal of the programmes is to create a the safety and efficacy of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer culture of early identification and evaluation of risks and claims actual or Healthcare Products the Group produces.
potential, in order to minimise liability and litigation.
