Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Managing risks and uncertainties in a manner that allows During 2013, the acquisitions of Xstrata and Viterra did not us to pursue business opportunities and create shareholder significantly impact our risk profile as the operations and value is a continuous challenge.
Identifying, quantifying associated risks and uncertainties acquired were consistent and managing risk is complex and challenging.
Risks can with the Groups existing activities.
arise from factors and events outside of our control or from operational and management activities.
Competitive, economic, political, legal, regulatory, social, business and financial risks and uncertainties all Our risk management framework identifies and manages have the potential to significantly impact our business.
risk in a way that is supportive of our strategic objectives Our principal risks, which have been assessed according to of opportunistically deploying capital, while protecting materiality and likelihood, are detailed below.
The order our future financial security and flexibility.
Our approach in which these risks and uncertainties appear does not towards risk management is underpinned by our necessarily reflect the likelihood of their occurrence or understanding of the risks that we are exposed to, our the relative magnitude of their potential material adverse riskappetite and how our risks change over time.
effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and or prospects.
These principal risks and The Board and its Audit Committee are responsible uncertainties should be considered in connection with for maintaining our risk management framework and any forward looking statements in this document and the internal control processes and policies.
The Board assesses cautionary statement.
and approves our overall risk appetite, monitors our risk exposure and sets the group-wide limits, which are annually reviewed.
The purpose of our management of risks is to ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between the levels of risk assumed and expected return, while ensuring that fast, highly commercial decision-making remains unhindered.
The significant shareholdings held by a number of key staff has created a strong culture around attitudes towards risks, which is further supplemented with prescriptive norms where necessary.
Risk Impact Mitigation External Fluctuations in expected volumes of supply or demand for the commodities in which the Group operates The Group is dependent on the Fluctuations in the volume of each commodity produced The risk of fluctuations in expected volumes of supply or demand or marketed by the Group could materially impact the demand for the commodities for commodities in which the Group is Groups business, results of operations and earnings.
in which the Group active, which can vary over time based These fluctuations could result in a reduction or increase markets is managed by on changes in resource availability, in the income generated in respect of the volumes handled maintaining a diversified government policies and regulation, by the Groups marketing activities, or a reduction or portfolio of commodities costs of production, global and regional increase in the volume and or margin in respect of to market, reducing the economic conditions, demand in end commodities produced by the Groups industrial assets.
impact of movement in any markets for products in which the one commodity market.
commodities are used, technological Individual commodities, developments, including commodity even apparently closely substitutions, fluctuations in global linked products such as production capacity, global and regional barley and wheat, have weather conditions, natural disasters their own demand cycles and diseases, all of which impact global reducing over-reliance on markets and demand for commodities.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Impact Mitigation Fluctuations of commodity prices The revenue and earnings of the Fluctuations in the price of commodities produced or The risk of fluctuations Groups industrial asset activities marketed could materially impact the Groups business, in commodity prices is and, to a lesser extent, its marketing results of operations and earnings.
The impacts that managed by maintaining activities are dependent upon fluctuating commodity prices have on the Groups a diversified portfolio of prevailing commodity prices.
business differ between its marketing activities and commodities, reducing Commodity prices are influenced industrial activities.
the impact of movement to by a number of external factors, any individual commodity Marketing activities: In a market environment in which including the supply of and demand price.
In addition, the Group prices for a particular commodity are higher on average, for commodities, speculative activities continuously reviews and the premiums margins that the Group generates in its by market participants, global political looks to optimise its asset physical marketing operations relating to such commodity and economic conditions and related portfolio to ensure it is as a result of geographical, time and quality imbalances industry cycles and production costs sufficiently cost effective and tend to be higher.
The Group also generally benefits inmajor producing countries.
efficient and a substantial from fluctuating market prices, rather than long periods portion of our inventory is of stable prices, as it seeks to physically arbitrage such either under contract for sale resulting price differentials.
As prices of commodities rise, at a pre-determined price the Group generally has higher working capital financing or hedged through futures requirements over the same quantity of commodities in and options on commodity question.
During periods of falling commodity prices, exchanges or with highly the opposite applies in that the Group will require less rated counterparties.
working capital financing for its marketing activities.
Therefore, at any one time, Industrial activities: Higher prices will be particularly the commodity price risk favourable to the profitability of the Group in respect is restricted to a small of those commodities which the Group produces at proportion of the working its industrial assets or are produced by its associated capital balance.
Similarly, low prices will negatively impact the Groups industrial activities and could result in such activities incurring losses.
A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally results in a decline in the Groups profitability during such a period and could potentially result in a devaluation of inventories and impairments.
Although the impact of a downturn on commodity prices affects the Groups marketing and industrial activities differently, the negative impact on its industrial activities is generally greater, as the profitability in the industrial activities is more directly exposed to price risk due to its higher level of fixed costs, while the Groups marketing activities are ordinarily substantially hedged in respect of price risk and principally operate a service-like margin-based model.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 19 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation Fluctuation in currency exchange rates The vast majority of the Groups The vast majority of transactions undertaken by both The Group manages transactions are denominated in the Groups marketing and industrial activities are the risk of fluctuating USdollars, while operating costs denominated in US dollars.
However, the Group is currency exchanges rates arespread across several different exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates: by operating in a number of countries the currencies of which different geographies and r Through its industrial assets, because a large proportion fluctuate against the US dollar.
by hedging specific future of these assets are denominated in the currency of the non-US dollar denominated country in which each asset is located, the largest of such commodity purchase or currency exposures being to the Australian dollar, the sale commitments.
Canadian dollar, the euro, the Kazakhstani tenge, the Chilean peso, the Norwegian kroner, the South African rand, the Argentine peso, the Colombian peso and the Peruvian sol: r Through the costs of the Groups global office network, which are denominated largely in the currency of the country in which each office is located, the largest of such currency exposures being to the Swiss franc, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the South African rand, the British pound and the euro: and r Through its marketing activities, although only a small minority of purchases or sale transactions are denominated in currencies other than US dollars.
Foreign exchange rates have seen significant fluctuation in recent years and a depreciation in the value of the US dollar against one or more of the currencies in which the Group incurs significant costs will therefore, to the extent it has not been hedged, result in an increase in the cost of these operations in US dollar terms and could adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Geopolitical risk The Group operates and owns assets in The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large Geopolitical risk is managed a large number of geographic regions number of regions and countries, if realised, could affect through geographical and countries some of which are the Groups ability to manage or retain interests in its diversification of categorised as developing, complex industrial activities and could have a material adverse commodities and operations, and having unstable political or effect on the profitability, ability to finance or, in extreme continuous monitoring social climates and, as a result, is cases, viability of one or more of its industrial assets.
and dialogue through exposed to a wide range of political, Although the Groups industrial assets are geographically and with the Groups economic, regulatory and tax diversified across various countries, disruptions in certain network of field offices and environments.
These environments of its industrial operations at any given time could have a a commitment to engage are subject to change in a manner material adverse effect on the Group.
proactively with employees that may be materially adverse for and the communities in which it operates, in order the Group, including changes to to maintain and improve its government policies and regulations licence to operate.
governing industrial production, foreign investment, price controls, import and export controls, tariffs, subsidies, income and other forms of taxation including policies relating to the granting of advance rulings on taxation matters, nationalisation or expropriation of property, repatriation of income, royalties, the environment and health and safety.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 20 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Impact Mitigation Compliance with laws and regulations As a diversified production, sourcing, These laws and regulations may allow governmental The Group is committed marketing and distribution company authorities and private parties to bring lawsuits based to complying with or conducting complex transactions upon damages to property and injury to persons resulting exceeding the laws, globally, the Group is exposed to from the environmental, health and safety and other regulations and best practice and subject to extensive laws and impacts of the Groups past and current operations, and guidelines applicable to its regulations governing various matters.
could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, penalties, operations and products in These include laws and regulations other civil or criminal sanctions, the curtailment or the jurisdictions in which relating to bribery and corruption, cessation of operations, orders to pay compensation, it operates and through taxation, anti-trust, financial markets orders to remedy the effects of violations and or orders to continuous monitoring of regulation, environmental protection, take preventative steps against possible future violations.
legislative requirements management and use of hazardous Moreover, the costs associated with compliance with these and engagement with substances and explosives, management laws and regulations are substantial.
Any changes to these government and regulators, of natural resources, licences laws or regulations or more stringent enforcement or it strives to ensure over resources owned by various restrictive interpretation of current laws and regulations full compliance.
governments, exploration, development could cause additional expenditure including capital of projects, production and postexpenditure to be incurred or impose restrictions on or closure reclamation, the employment suspensions of the Groups operations and delays in the of expatriates, labour and occupational development of its properties.
In addition, obtaining the health and safety standards, and necessary governmental permits can be a particularly historic and cultural preservation.
complex and time-consuming process and may involve costly undertakings.
The duration and success of permit applications are contingent on many factors, including those outside the Groups control.
Failure to obtain or renew a necessary permit could mean that such companies would be unable to proceed with the development or continued operation of a mine or project, which, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Liquidity risk The Groups failure to obtain funds A lack of liquidity may mean that the Group will not have The Group operates a could limit its ability to engage in funds available to maintain or increase its marketing policy of liquidity risk desired activities and grow its business.
management, whereby it seeks to maintain via Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is Marketing activities: The Groups marketing activities a minimum prescribed essential to the Groups businesses.
employ significant amounts of working capital to fund level sufficient cash and Liquidity risk is the risk that the purchases of commodities for future delivery to its end cash equivalents and other Group is unable to meet its payment customers, to meet margin requirements under derivative sources of committed obligations when due, or that it is contracts and to fund the acquisition and maintenance of funding available unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow certain transport and storage assets which complement to meet anticipated funds in the market on an unsecured or its marketing activities.
Any inability to fund these and unanticipated secured basis at an acceptable price to amounts of working capital may prevent the Group from funding needs.
fund actual or proposed commitments.
maintaining its historic levels of marketing activity or While the Group adjusts its minimum from increasing such levels in the future.
internal liquidity targets in response Industrial activities: The Groups industrial activities to changes in market conditions, these are capital intensive and the continued funding of such minimum internal liquidity targets activities is critical to maintain its ownership interests may be breached due to circumstances in its industrial assets, to maintain production levels it is unable to control, such as general in periods when net operating cash flow is negative or market disruptions, sharp increases insufficient to cover capital expenditures, to increase in the prices of commodities or an production levels in the future in accordance with its operational problem that affects its business plans and to grow its industrial activities through suppliers or customers or itself.
the acquisition of new assets.
Any inability to fund these operating and capital expenditure requirements may prevent the Group from maintaining or growing its industrial activities production output.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 21 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation Marketing activities Arbitrage opportunities The Groups marketing activities Many of the physical commodity markets in which the The Group mitigates the are dependent, in part, on its ability Group operates are fragmented or periodically volatile.
risk of an inability to take to identify and take advantage of As a result, discrepancies generally arise in respect of advantage of arbitrage arbitrage opportunities.
the prices at which the commodities can be bought or opportunities or lack thereof sold in different forms, geographic locations or time by maintaining a diversified periods, taking into account the numerous relevant portfolio of products and pricing factors, including freight and product quality.
through informational These pricing discrepancies can present the Group with advantages the Group enjoys arbitrage opportunities whereby the Group is able to via its global network, its generate profit by sourcing, transporting, blending, sizeable market share and storing or otherwise processing the relevant commodities.
logistics capabilities in many Profitability of the Groups marketing activities is, in large commodities enabling it to part, dependent on its ability to identify and exploit such move quickly in response arbitrage opportunities.
A lack of such opportunities, for to arbitrage opportunities example due to a prolonged period of pricing stability in a afforded by fluctuations particular market, or an inability to take advantage of such and disequilibrium in opportunities when they present themselves, because of, commodity markets.
for example, a shortage of liquidity or an inability to access required logistics assets or other operational constraints, could adversely impact the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
Hedging strategy The Groups hedging strategy may The Groups marketing activities involve a significant In order to mitigate the risks notalways be effective, does not number of purchase and sale transactions across multiple in its marketing activities requireall risks to be hedged and commodities.
To the extent the Group purchases a related to commodity price mayleave an exposure to basis risk.
commodity from a supplier and does not immediately fluctuations and potential have a matching contract to sell the commodity to a losses, the Group has a customer: a downturn in the price of the commodity could policy, at any given time, of result in losses to the Group.
Conversely, to the extent the hedging substantially all Group agrees to sell a commodity to a customer and does of its marketing inventory not immediately have a matching contract to acquire the not already contracted for commodity from a supplier, an increase in the price of the sale at pre-determined commodity could result in losses to the Group, as it then prices through futures seeks to acquire the underlying commodity in a rising and swap commodity market.
In the event of disruptions in the commodity derivative contracts, exchanges or markets on which the Group engages in either on commodities hedging transactions, the Groups ability to manage exchanges or in the overcommodity price risk may be adversely affected and this the-counter market.
could in turn materially adversely affect its business, In instances where there financial condition and results of operations.
are no traded or bilateral In addition, there are no traded or bilateral derivative derivative markets for markets for certain commodities that the Group purchases certain commodities, the and sells, which limits the Groups ability to fully hedge its Groups ability to hedge exposure to price fluctuations for these commodities.
its commodity exposure is limited to forward contracts for the physical delivery of a commodity or futures and swap contracts for a different, but seemingly related, commodity.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 22 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Impact Mitigation Counterparty credit and performance risk The Group, in particular via its Non-performance by the Groups suppliers, customers and The Group seeks to reduce marketing activities, is subject to hedging counterparties may occur in a range of situations, the risk of customer nonnon-performance risk by its suppliers, such as: performance by requiring customers and hedging counterparties.
credit support from r A significant increase in commodity prices could result creditworthy financial in suppliers being unwilling to honour their contractual institutions including commitments to sell commodities to the Group at premaking extensive use agreed prices: of credit enhancement r A significant reduction in commodity prices could result products, such as letters of in customers being unwilling or unable to honour their credit, insurance policies contractual commitments to purchase commodities from and bank guarantees, the Group at pre-agreed prices: where appropriate, and r Customers may take delivery of commodities from the by imposing limits on Group and then find themselves unable to honour their open accounts extended.
payment obligations due to financial distress or any Whilst these limits are other reasons: and believed appropriate r Hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to based on current levels honour their contractual commitment due to financial of perceived risk, there distress or other reasons.
is a possibility that a protracted difficult Non-performance by a counterparty could have an economic environment adverse impact on the Groups results of operations and would negatively impact the financial condition, including by creating an unintended, quality of these exposures.
In addition, mark-to-market In addition, financial assets consisting principally of cash exposures in relation to and cash equivalents, marketable securities, receivables hedging contracts are and advances, derivative instruments and long-term regularly and substantially advances and loans could potentially expose the Group collateralised primarily toconcentrations of credit risk.
with cash pursuant to margin arrangements put in place with such hedge counterparties.
The Group actively monitors the credit quality of its counterparties, including the risk of non-performance by suppliers and customers alike, through internal reviews, strong relationships and industry experience and a credit scoring process which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 23 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation Risk management policies and procedures Identifying, quantifying and managing The Groups activities are exposed to commodity price, The Group uses, among risk is complex and challenging and foreign exchange, interest rate, counterparty including other techniques, Valuealthough it is the Groups policy credit, operational, regulatory and other risks.
The Group at-Risk, or VaR, as a key and practice to identify and, where has devoted significant resources to developing and market risk measurement appropriate and practical, actively implementing policies and procedures to manage these technique for its marketing manage such risks to support its risks and expects to continue to do so in the future.
VaR does not objectives in managing its capital and Nonetheless, the Groups policies and procedures to purport to represent actual future financial security and flexibility, identify, monitor and manage risks have not been fully gains or losses in fair value the Groups policies and procedures effective in the past and may not be fully effective in the on earnings to be incurred may not adequately identify, monitor future.
Some of the Groups methods of monitoring and by the Group, nor does and quantify risk.
managing risk are based on historical market behaviour the Group expect that VaR that may not be an accurate predictor of future market results are indicative of behaviour.
Other risk management methods depend on future market movements evaluation of information relating to markets, suppliers, or representative of any customers and other matters that are publicly available actual impact on its future or otherwise accessible by the Group.
VaR has certain may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or limitations: notably, the use properly evaluated.
Management of operational, legal of historical data as a proxy and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies for estimating future events, and procedures to properly record and verify a large market illiquidity risks and number of transactions and events, and these policies tail risks.
While the Group andprocedures may not be fully effective in doing so.
recognises these limitations and continuously refines Failure to mitigate all risks associated with the its VaR analysis, there can Groups business could have a material adverse effect be no assurance that its on the Groups business, results of operations and VaR analysis will be an financial condition.
Please refer to the Financial review for further explanation on the use of VaR.
Supply of commodities fromthird parties The Group purchases a portion of Any disruptions in the supply of product by factors The Group sources product the physical commodities sold by its such as weather and other natural disasters, unexpected from a large range of marketing activities from its controlled maintenance problems, collapse or damage to mines, suppliers and is not reliant industrial operations and associates.
labour disruptions and changes in laws and regulations on any one supplier to The remainder of the commodities could adversely affect the Groups margins.
The Groups satisfy its performance.
sourced by its marketing operations are business, results of operations, financial condition and This enables the Group purchased from third party suppliers prospects could be materially adversely impacted if to source alternative and entities in which the Group has a it is unable to continue to source required volumes of product in the event of minority stake excluding associates.
commodities from its suppliers on reasonable terms or supply disruption.
The Group expects to continue to source at all.
commodities from such third parties in the future.
The Group is potentially exposed to both price and supply risks with respect to commodities sourced from third parties and entities in which it holds a minority stake.
The Group is reliant on third parties to source the majority of the commodities purchased by its marketing operations.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 24 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Impact Mitigation Freight, storage, infrastructure andlogistics support The Groups marketing activities Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure The risk of disruptions to require access to significant amounts and logistics support or limitations or interruptions in the or limitations of freight, of freight, storage, infrastructure and supply chain which impedes the Groups ability to deliver storage, infrastructure and logistics support and it is exposed its products on time, could adversely affect the Groups logistics support is mitigated to increases in the costs thereof.
business, results of operations or financial condition.
through the Groups market In addition, the Group often competes position, global reach and its with other producers, purchasers or longstanding relationships marketers of commodities or other with third party suppliers.
products for limited storage and These give the Group an berthing facilities at ports and freight advantage in ensuring terminals, which can result in delays its commodity transport in loading or unloading the Groups needs are met along with products and expose the Group to its investments in storage significant delivery interruptions.
and logistic assets such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, metals and other warehouses and grain silos.
Industrial activities Non-controlling stakes, joint ventures and strategic partnerships or agreements Some of the Groups industrial assets The Group does not control a number of its industrial Where projects and are held through non-controlling investments.
Although the Group has various structures operations are controlled stakes or joint ventures and strategic in place which seek to protect its position where it does and managed by the partnership arrangements.
notexercise control, the boards of these companies may: Groups co-investors or where control is shared on r Have economic or business interests or goals that are an equal basis, the Group inconsistent with or are opposed to those of the Group: actively participates in the r Exercise veto rights or take shareholders decisions so as governance structures of to block actions that the Group believes to be in its best the co-managed operation interests and or in the best interests of all shareholders: to ensure, where possible, r Take action contrary to the Groups policies or compliance with the Groups objectives with respect to investments or commercial policies and or objectives.
arrangements: or r As a result of financial or other difficulties be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under any joint venture or other agreement, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls of a non-controlled entity could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the relevant investment and, therefore, of the Group.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 25 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation Project development The Group has a number of significant Any future upward revisions in estimated project costs, Project development expansions planned for its existing delays in completing planned expansions, cost overruns, risks are mitigated and operations and plans for certain suspension of current projects or other operational managed through the new projects, the development of difficulties after commissioning, may have amaterial Groups continuous project which is exposed to a number of adverse effect on the Groups business, resultsof status evaluation and risks outside of its control such as operations, financial condition or prospects, in turn reporting processes, the technical uncertainties, infrastructure requiring the Group to consider delaying discretionary significant focus of such constraints, cost overruns, insufficient expenditures, including capital expenditures, or being appropriate approval labour skills or resources and delays in suspending or altering the scope of one or more of its processes and transparent permitting orother regulatory matters.
and timely reporting of costs and progress relative to plan.
Significant projects are regularly audited against the project plan andreporting processes.
Operating risks and hazards The Groups industrial activities are These risks and hazards could result in damage to, or Operating risks and hazards subject to numerous operating risks and destruction of, properties or production facilities, may are managed through hazards normally associated with the cause production to be reduced or to cease at those the Groups continuous development and operation of natural properties or production facilities, may result in a decrease assessment, reporting and resource projects, many of which are in the quality of the products, personal injury or death, communication of the risks beyond the Groups control.
environmental damage, business interruption and legal that affect its business liability and may result in actual production differing through its annual risk These operating risks and hazards from estimates of production.
review processes and include unanticipated variations updates to its risk register.
in grade and other geological The realisation of such operating risks and hazards and In addition, risk is mitigated problems, seismic activity, climatic the costs associated with them could materially adversely somewhat through conditions such as flooding or affect the Groups business, results of operations and geographic and multiple drought, metallurgical and other financial condition, including by requiring significant project diversification.
processing problems, technical capital and operating expenditures to abate the risk failures, unavailability of materials or hazard, restore the Group or third party property, and equipment, interruptions to power compensate third parties for any loss and or pay fines supplies, industrial actions or disputes, or damages.
industrial accidents, labour force disruptions, unanticipated logistical and transportation constraints, tribal action or political protests, force majeure factors, environmental hazards, fire, explosions, vandalism and crime.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 26 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Impact Mitigation Title to the land, resource tenure andextraction rights The Group has industrial investments Any dispute, relating to a material industrial asset, could Title and tenure risks in certain countries where title to disrupt or delay relevant mining, processing or other are managed through land and rights in respect of land and projects and or impede the Groups ability to develop new geographical diversification resources including indigenous title industrial properties, which may have a material adverse of commodities and has not been and may not always be effect on the Groups business, results of operations and operations, continuous clear, creating the potential for disputes financial condition.
monitoring and dialogue over resource development.
Title to through and with the the Groups mining and hydrocarbon Groups network of local rights may be challenged or impugned, offices and a commitment and title insurance may not generally to engage proactively with be available.
In many cases, the employees, governments government of the country inwhich and the communities in a particular asset is located is the sole which the Group operates authority able to grant such rights to maintain and better its and, in some cases, may have limited licence to operate.
infrastructure and limited resources which may constrain the Groups ability to ensure that it has obtained secure title to individual exploration licences or extraction rights.
Availability of infrastructure The production, processing and The mining, drilling, processing, development and Availability of infrastructure product delivery capabilities of the exploration activities of the industrial assets in which risk is mitigated through Groups industrial assets rely on their the Group holds an interest depend on adequate long-term supply infrastructure being adequate and infrastructure.
Certain of these assets are located in agreements and the remaining available.
areas that are sparsely populated and difficult to access.
continuous monitoring Reliable roads, power sources, transport infrastructure through the Groups and water supplies are essential for the conduct of these network of local offices, operations and the availability and cost of these utilities and a commitment to and infrastructure affect capital and operating costs and engage proactively with therefore the Groups ability to maintain expected levels of governments and the production and results of operations.
Unusual weather or communities in which the other natural phenomena, sabotage or other interference in Group operates to maintain the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could and improve its licence to impact the development of a project, reduce production operate.
In addition, where volumes, increase extraction or exploration costs or delay appropriate, we establish the transportation of raw materials to the mines and back-up sources of power.
projects and commodities to end customers.
Any such issues arising in respect of the infrastructure supporting or on the Groups sites could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 27 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation Cost control As commodity prices are outside of the Production costs are heavily influenced by the extent Maintaining costs and, Groups control, the competitiveness of ongoing development required, ore grades, mine where possible, lowering and sustainable long-term profitability planning, processing technology, logistics, energy and them is supported by of its industrial asset portfolio supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations the Groups continuous depends significantly on its ability to on costs of operations.
All of the Groups industrial reporting on these closely manage costs and maintain a assets are, to varying degrees, affected by increases measures, coupled with broad spectrum of low-cost, efficient in costs for labour and fuel.
Unit production costs are the inclusion of certain operations.
Costs associated with the also significantly affected by production volumes and cost control evaluation operation of the Groups industrial therefore production levels are frequently a key factor measures in assessing assets can be broadly categorised into in determining the overall cost competitiveness of the management performance.
labour costs and other on-site expenses, Groups industrial activities.
Any increase in input costs In addition, risk is mitigated including power and equipment costs.
will adversely affect the Groups results of operations somewhat through andfinancial condition.
geographic and multiple project diversification.
Resources and reserves The Groups stated mineral, coal and Actual reserves, resources or mineralised potential The Group updates annually hydrocarbon reserves, resources and may not conform to geological, metallurgical or other the quantity and quality mineralised potential are only estimates expectations, and the volume and grade of ore or of the estimated proven and the anticipated volumes or grades product recovered may be below the estimated levels.
and probable reserves to may not be achieved.
Lower market prices, increased production costs, reduced reflect extraction, additional recovery rates and other factors may render the Groups drilling and other available reserves, resources or mineralised potential uneconomical data in accordance with to exploit and may result in revision of its reserve internationally recognised estimates from time to time.
If the Groups actual mineral, reporting frameworks, coal and hydrocarbon reserves and resources are less including JORC, SAMREC than current estimates or if the Group fails to develop and PRMS.
its resource base through the realisation of identified or new mineral potential, the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially andadversely affected.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 28 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Impact Mitigation Environmental hazards The processes and chemicals used in Where the Group holds or has interests in industrial Compliance with the Groups extraction and production activities, these assets are generally subject to international and local methods, as well as its shipping environmental hazards as a result of the processes and regulations and standards, and storage activities, are subject to chemicals used in traditional extraction, production, protecting our people, environmental hazards.
storage, disposal and transportation methods.
communities and the Environmental hazards may exist on the Groups owned environment from harm or leased properties or at those of the industrial activities and our operations from in which it holds an interest, or may be encountered business interruptions while its products are in transit.
The storage of tailings are top priorities for at the Groups industrial assets may present a risk to the the Group.
The Groups environment, property and persons, where there remains operating procedures and a risk of leakage from or failure of the Groups tailings those of its partners in dams, as well as theft and vandalism during the operating relation to owned tankers life of the assets or after closure.
conform to industry best practise working under Additionally, the Group conducts oil exploration and the guidelines of the drilling activities and also stores and transports crude International Maritime oil and oil products around the world.
Damage to Organisation IMO, relevant exploration or drilling equipment, a vessel carrying oil or Flag States and top tier a facility where oil is stored could lead to a spill, causing Classification societies.
environmental damage with significant Tankers chartered from clean-up or remediation costs.
third parties are required The Group may be liable for losses associated with to meet strict vetting environmental hazards, have its licences and permits inspection requirements withdrawn or suspended or may be forced to undertake in line with OCIMF Oil extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for Companies International government-ordered remedial clean-up actions, even Marine Forum and the in cases where such hazards have been caused by any Groups own standards.
previous or subsequent owners or operators of the The Groups oil exploration property, by any past or present owners of adjacent activities engage best properties, by independent third party contractors industry practises and providing services to the Group or by acts of vandalism by procedures and utilise first trespassers.
Any such losses, withdrawals, suspensions, class drilling contractors actions or payments may have a material adverse effect with proven expertise and on the Groups business, results of operations and experience.
wide-spread and comprehensive insurance cover is actively procured, to reduce the financial impact of operational risks, property damage, business interruption and environmental liabilities tothe extent possible.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 29 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact Mitigation Sustainable development Emissions and climate change regulation The Groups global presence exposes it Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, The Group, through its to a number of jurisdictions in which including the progressive introduction of carbon emissions sustainability programme, regulations or laws have been or are trading mechanisms and tighter emission reduction strives to ensure emissions being considered to limit or reduce targets is likely to raise production, transportation and and climate change issues emissions.
The likely effect of these administrative costs.
In addition, regulation of greenhouse are identified, understood changes will be to increase the cost for gas emissions in the jurisdictions of the Groups major and effectively managed and fossil fuels, impose levies for emissions customers and in relation to international shipping could monitored in order to meet in excess of certain permitted levels also have a material adverse effect on the demand for international best practice and increase administrative costs for some of the Groups products.
standards and ensure monitoring and reporting.
Community relations The continued success of the Groups If it is perceived that the Group is not respecting or The Group believes that existing operations and its future advancing the economic and social progress and safety the best way to manage projects are in part dependent of the communities in which it operates, the Groups these vital relationships is upon broad support and a healthy reputation and shareholder value could be damaged, to adhere to the principles relationship with the respective which could have a negative impact on its social licence to of open dialogue and local communities.
operate, its ability to secure access to new resources and co-operation and in doing its financial performance.
The consequences of negative so, it engages with local community reaction could also have a material adverse communities to present and impact on the cost, profitability, ability to finance or even demonstrate the positive the viability of an operation.
Such events could lead to contribution to sociodisputes with national or local governments or with local economic development of communities or any other stakeholders and give rise to the Groups local operations material reputational damage.
If the Groups operations and ensure that appropriate are delayed or shut down as a result of political and measures are taken to community instability, its earnings may be constrained prevent or mitigate possible and the long-term value of its business could be adversely adverse effects on them, impacted.
Even in cases where no action adverse to the along with the regular Group is actually taken, the uncertainty associated with reporting of such.
such political or community instability could negatively impact the perceived value of the Groups assets and industrial investments and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 30 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Impact Mitigation Employees The maintenance of positive employee Some of the Groups employees, as well as employees in The Group understands and union relations and the ability to non-controlled industrial investments, are represented by that one of the key factors attract and retain skilled workers are labour unions under various collective labour agreements.
in its success is a good and key to the success of the Group.
The Group or the industrial investments in which it holds trustworthy relationship an interest may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its with its people.
This priority collective labour agreements when they expire and may is reflected in the principles face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than of its corporate practice would be the case for non-unionised labour.
In addition, and its related guidance, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or which require regular, work stoppage at its facilities in the future, and any strike open, fair and respectful or other work stoppage could have a material adverse communication, zero effect on the Groups business, results of operations and tolerance for human rights financial condition.
violations, fair remuneration and, above all, a safe The success of the Groups business is also dependent on working environment.
its ability to attract and retain highly effective marketing and logistics personnel as well as highly qualified and skilled engineers and other industrial, technical and project experts to operate its industrial activities in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions.
The Group may not be able to attract and retain such qualified personnel and this could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
Health, safety and environment The Groups operations are subject New or amended environmental, health and safety The Groups approach to health, safety and environmental legislation or regulations may result in increased to sustainability and regulations and legislation along with operating costs or, in the event of non-compliance or our expectations of our complying with the Groups corporate accidents or incidents causing personal injury or death employees, our contractors sustainability framework.
or property or environmental damage at or to the and our business partners Groups mines, smelters, refineries, concentrators, drill are outlined in the Glencore rigs or related facilities such as logistics and storage Xstrata Corporate Practice facilities or surrounding areas may result in significant GCP.
GCP underpins losses, interruptions in production, expensive litigation, our approach towards imposition of penalties and sanctions or suspension societal, environmental or revocation of permits and licences, even in cases and compliance indicators, where such hazards have been caused by any previous providing clear guidance or subsequent owners or operators of the property, by on the standards we any past or present owners of adjacent properties, by expect all our operations independent third party contractors providing services to achieve.
Through the to the Group or by acts of vandalism by trespassers.
reporting function within Any such losses, withdrawals, suspensions, actions GCP, our Board receives or payments may have a material adverse effect regular updates and on the Groups business, results of operations and has a detailed oversight financial condition.
on how our business is performing across all of the sustainability indicators.
