BUSINESS REVIEW Risks and uncertainties Greene King has a formal risk management process which is designed to identify, assess and prioritise risks within the business, so that their impact on sustainable profitability is minimised and the group is able to deliver our business plans andstrategic objectives, as well as to maximise shareholder returns.
The board retains ultimate responsibility for Each division and functional area is monitors the risk mitigation plans and assists the companys risk management framework responsible for maintaining, reviewing in the production of the group risk register.
and reviews the groups principal risks on andregularly updating a risk register.
The board has delegated Classification of risks takes into account the Given that some risks are external and not responsibility for assurance for the risk likelihood of their occurrence and the scale fully within our control, the risk management management process to the audit committee, ofpotential impact both financial and processes are designed to manage risks which which regularly reviews the risk management reputational on the business.
Each division may have a material impact on our business, processes for each division and functional area.
and functional area isthen responsible for rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
The implementation of risk management and drawing up plans tomanage new risks or internal control systems is the responsibility gaps in mitigation plans.
Progress of these This section highlights some of the key risks of the executive directors and other risk implementation plans is monitored by and uncertainties which affect Greene King, seniormanagement.
senior management on a regular basis.
In but it is not intended to be an exhaustive addition, a company-wide risk committee analysis of all risks facing the business.
reviews the individual risk registers in detail, Strategic risks SPECIFIC RISK AREAS PoTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATIoN MoNIToRING ASSURANCE A failure to find and secure the We maintain a pipeline of sites available Regular updates are provided to To achieve our Retail acquisition and development where for purchase and a team of acquisition management as to the status of potential expansion plans we need to be appropriate of top quality sites could managers responsible for securing new acquisitions and of development progress able to acquire existing pubs, reduce our rate of growth in the future.
sites on an on-going basis.
Our in-house for new build sites or major conversions smaller pub businesses and property development team is employed of acquired pubs.
Monthly estate plan brown or greenfield sites on to help deliver new-build projects on meetings are held to discuss progress.
It may be more difficult to dispose of We have an on-going programme There is regular assessment of the The current economic properties at an appropriate valuation, ofinvestment in our sites, in the form long-term value of all of our sites situation and fluctuations impacting our ability to reinvest those ofboth expansionary and maintenance bytheproperty department.
inthe UK property market funds elsewhere or service debt.
Under-performing sites receive may make it more difficult Thismay also lead us to continuing additional operational focus through our toreduce the size of our operating pubs that are in long-term Independence Pub division.
Our team of tenanted estate.
estate managers is tasked with achieving the sale of proposed disposal sites at the best possible prices.
A failure to execute this strategy This year we have invested 7.3m in The Brewing & Brands executive team We are investing significantly correctly could result in lower or marketing relating to our beers, with reviews and approves brand investment in our core ale brands to drive stagnant sales growth in those brands, national TV advertising campaigns for proposals, monitors customer opinions core own-brand volume affecting profitability.
Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen and is tasked with turning increased growth and UK ale market andBelhaven Best.
28 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk Economic and market risks SPECIFIC RISK AREAS PoTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATIoN MoNIToRING ASSURANCE A prolonged recession or delay in By focusing on value, service and quality The executive teams and the board receive The wider economic situation economic recovery, or significant we aim to continue to appeal to a broad regular updates on performance.
within the UK affects consumer competitor activity, could reduce our range of consumers.
We have a wide Competitor activity is monitored at both confidence, with a consequential revenue and lead to lower growth rates.
geographic spread of pubs including the a strategic and tactical level to enable impact on levels of consumer More tenant defaults and business more affluent areas of London and the suitable actions to be developed in spending in our pubs and those failures could also reduce revenue and South East, and a good range of customer response.
All business units keep and increase costs in the form of tenant offers.
For our tenants and lessees we update profit protection plans in case ofour tenants and lessees.
support or recruiting new licensees.
provide on-going training, operational ofany downturn in trading conditions.
Wealsoface increasing and financial support alongside continued Our Pub Partners division constantly competitor activity.
agreement innovation to ensure that monitors the vital signs of our licensee more of our tenants are able to run health, including debt levels and the profitable businesses.
numbers of tenancies at will.
Higher costs could impact margins We have contracts in place with major All costs, including labour, are closely Inflationary trends increase andlead to reduced profitability.
suppliers designed to protect us against monitored by the executive teams thecosts of our key products, significant increases in major cost items toensure that they remain in line including food, drink and site and against price volatility.
evolve the composition of menus and retail prices to optimise value to the customer and profits for the company.
Operational and people risks SPECIFIC RISK AREAS PoTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATIoN MoNIToRING ASSURANCE Customers may stop visiting our sites We maintain tight controls including with Mystery guest scores are regularly An event or series of events orvisit less frequently, leading to a loss regard to food provenance to protect measured and reviewed by the relevant including poor service standards of revenue and reputational damage.
and enhance our reputation and brand executive teams in our Retail divisions.
and food provenance issues may values, alongside staff training, targeted We have introduced a new supplier occur which damages our brand investment programmes and mystery assurance programme to enable us in the eyes of our customers, guest visits.
Incident escalation and togive appropriate assurances to particularly in the age of management systems are also in place.
ourcustomers as to the provenance ofthe food in our pubs.
increasing use of social media.
A lengthy failure of any such systems, Our networks are protected by firewalls The IT department constantly monitor We are reliant on information howsoever caused, could impact our and anti-virus protection systems and threats to data protection by viruses, systems and technology for many ability to do business and cause back-up procedures are also in place.
hacking and breach of access controls.
Abusiness continuity plan is in place The business continuity plan is also for critical business processes.
We have regularly reviewed and tested.
access to an off-site disaster recovery facility in the event of a major issue with our head office or our systems.
Supply disruption whether of our own Detailed risk management and mitigation Risk mitigation and product recall plans We are reliant on a number of beers or any third party products could plans exist in our internal production are reviewed and tested regularly across keysuppliers and third party impact customer satisfaction.
Our key the business and disaster recovery plans distributors to supply our pubs a key supplier or distributor failure suppliers are expected to maintain of suppliers are reviewed regularly.
The and restaurants and are also at could over the longer term reduce our disaster recovery plans.
We also maintain financial stability of key suppliers that risk of an event occurring which revenue or lead to increased costs if back-up plans in the event of the failure we regard as most at risk is monitored may prevent us from producing, alternative arrangements are required.
by or loss of a key supplier.
with the help of external advisers.
packaging and distributing our own beers.
A failure to attract, develop, retain and We aim to recruit the best people and offer Our annual employee engagement We are reliant on the quality of motivate the best employees at all levels training and development programmes to survey is used to obtain direct feedback our employees and our licensees.
of the organisation and the best tenants ensure that we retain them.
Remuneration from employees on a range of issues.
may mean that we are not able to execute packages are benchmarked to ensure that Both staff and licensee turnover is our business plans and strategy.
The range of measured and reviewed by relevant tenancy agreements, training programmes management teams.
and support available is designed to attract and retain the best quality licensees.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC BUSINESS REVIEW Risks and uncertainties continued Regulatory risks SPECIFIC RISK AREAS PoTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATIoN MoNIToRING ASSURANCE A new stautory code could increase We have responded to the recent The regulatory landscape is monitored The government is currently costs for Pub Partners and reduce government consultation in relation to the on an on-going basis by our public consulting on a statutory code revenue.
Additional taxation or further proposed statutory code and will continue affairs team, so we remain aware of any to manage the relationship changes to laws on the sale of alcohol to engage actively with government to potential changes which may adversely between pub companies and could lead to both reduced revenue and argue for more time to be given for the impact our business.
their tenants which could have increased costs across the group.
self-regulatory code to prove its worth.
We also aim to ensure that government significant implications for appreciates that the safest and most ourPub Partners division.
responsible place to consume alcohol There is also a risk of further isin a well-managed licensed legislative changes in relation on-tradepremises.
A major food safety or health and safety We have a comprehensive range of We have a centrally managed system We are required to comply incident which causes serious illness, formally documented policies and ofcompliance tracking KPIs, which witha wide range of health injury or even loss of life to one of our procedures in place to ensure compliance isvalidated by both internal and and safety legislation, including customers, employees or tenants with current legislation and approved independent external audits carried out in the areas of food safety and couldhave a significant impact guidance in this area, as well as our own at all Retail sites to measure performance fire safety, across all parts onourreputation.
Our health and safety against certain strict health and safety ofour business.
policies have been reviewed by our standards including food safety and fire primary authority partner, Reading safety.
Operational managers are regularly Borough Council, which has rated our briefed on performance and remedial safety management systems as very actions are tracked from the centre.
Safety levels for new tenants have been improved, and safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained and that all food and drink products are fully traceable.
Financial risks SPECIFIC RISK AREAS PoTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATIoN MoNIToRING ASSURANCE Breaching our financial covenants would Our long-term strategy and yearly We regularly monitor our performance Our financing structure requires have a significant impact on our ability to business plans are formulated to ensure against our financial covenants, including us to be able to repay capital pay dividends or reinvest cash back into that financial covenants can be met.
Working capital is carefully borrowed and interest on the business.
It could also impact our securitised vehicle had a free cash flow forecast, regularly reviewed by the timeand to ensure that we reputation and on-going creditworthiness.
debt service cover ratio at the year end finance teams and closely managed.
operate within certain of1.5x, giving 29% headroom.
Under our bank facility we had 135% headroom on financial covenants.
the key net debt EBITDA covenant.
Inadequate internal control systems Our systems of internal control, more Regular management accounts are We are reliant on maintaining increase the risk of fraud being perpetrated details of which appear on page 45, produced for each area and reviewed robust systems of internal against us.
Non-compliance with statutory include robust controls, appropriately indetail, to enable irregularities to be control to deal accurately obligations or a material mis-statement qualified staff, segregation of duties and exposed.
There is a detailed external withthe large numbers of in the reported results of the company authority levels for expenditure and audit of our statutory accounts.
transactions undertaken by could damage our reputation.
Appropriate advice is taken the business and to ensure to ensure relevant statutory compliance.
compliance with statutory obligations particularly withregard to taxation.
We maintain three defined The difference in value between the All the schemes are now closed to There is regular monitoring of the schemes assets and liabilities may vary, future accrual to reduce volatility.
schemes investments and dialogue benefit pension schemes resulting in an increased deficit being withthe trustees on an on-going basis which must be funded to meet recognised on our balance sheet.
Thevolatility of this deficit makes The value and funding of the longer-term planning more difficult.
schemes are subject to the risk of changes in life expectancy, actual and expected price inflation and changes in investment yields.
30 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
