52 Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Pillars Supporting Inspiring Equipping drivers of cyclists of families for their every car every age leisure time Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and uncertainties that could impact the achievement of the Groups strategy.
These risks are accepted as being a part of doing business and the Board recognises that the nature and scope of these risks can change and so regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group as well as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 72 to 81 describes the systems and internal control processes through which the Directors identify, assess, manage and mitigate risks.
Key Risks and Uncertainties Senior Management colleagues assess risks on a  basis using a variety of techniques to identify risk.
The likelihood and impact of these risks are considered and scored against a recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement of our corporate strategies.
Mitigation Responsibility for taking the necessary actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues in the business, with Executive manager sponsor involvement.
The Risk Register is monitored and updated with current and ongoing mitigation on a regular basis.
Report and Review The Executive Committee and the Board consider the risks reported within the Risk Register and review and monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to ensure that the status of risk mirrors the levels of risk that the Board is willing to take in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 Strategic Getting Into Gear Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Pillar 2016 Economic The economy is a major influence on consumer The Group mitigates these risks by focusing on spending.
Trends in employment, inflation, maintaining the defensive characteristics of its taxation, consumer debt levels, weather and needs driven product groups and by ensuring interest rates impact consumer expenditure in that its stores and centres are the key destination discretionary areas.
Changes in Government for its core products and services.
We also ensure policies e. g: Cycle2Work, DAB switchover may that we have representation with Governmental also affect our consumers ability to benefit from decision-makers in the areas supporting our core our products and services.
Business Strategy The aim of the Groups business strategy is to The budgetary and planning process aims to deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
deliver the Groups growth targets and business The Board understands that if the strategy plans are developed to ensure these targets are and vision are inappropriately formulated and achieved and that they are resourced appropriately.
communicated and if the necessary resources Regular access to industry experts and monitoring are not put in place then the business will suffer.
of performance against plan is carried out by both the Executive managers of the Company and the Board to ensure targets are being achieved and that they remain relevant to and focused on the Group Strategy.
Competition The retail industry is highly competitive and The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK dynamic.
The Group competes with a wide retailers, both in-store and online, and from variety of retailers of varying sizes and faces the national car-servicing network and seeks competition from UK retailers, in both stores and to continually strengthen its own-brand and online, as well as international operators.
The sub-brand retail offer and develop opportunities Car Servicing market is a service-based market to differentiate the Halfords offer and deliver an with a number of different-sized providers where honest and trustworthy service.
Our Click with the Trust is extremely important to customers.
Digital Future initiative will provide an improved Failure to compete with competitors on areas multichannel experience.
including price, product range, quality, service and trustworthiness could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Compliance The Group operates in an environment governed The Group has a Quality Assurance and by legislation, standards and codes in areas Commercial Regulatory team that manage including, but not limited to, trading, advertising, legal and regulatory control processes both product quality, health and safety, hazardous in-house and externally to advise and take action substances and data protection.
on existing and emerging risk management issues.
Our various Codes of Practice regulate our behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders including customers, suppliers and colleagues and our attitudes toward such areas as the environment and ethical trading.
Changing Customer Preferences Some of the products that Halfords sells, Halfords has recruited experienced, particularly in the Car Enhancement category, knowledgeable colleagues who can identify are subject to rapidly changing consumer and interpret trends and consequently respond preferences.
Products such as childrens cycles in a timely manner to changes in consumer face competition from alternative products preferences.
Colleagues also monitor such as games consoles and some of developments in alternative products and our the products that the Group sells are nonforecasts reflect the latest assumption in these discretionary in their nature and predicting areas.
We are continually looking at ways of future trends is difficult.
moving into new merchandising opportunities to mitigate technology changes and to improve forecasting and planning to ensure we meet our customers changing needs.
Our H Factor initiative will improve product development and design.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 54 Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic Getting Into Gear Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Pillar 2016 Reputation The Halfords name is a key asset of the business Ultimately the protection of Halfords brand and and as the largest operator in its markets, position in its core markets will be sustained expectations of the Group are high.
Failure to by unique and extensive product offerings protect the Groups reputation and brand could and a multichannel approach to sales in our lead to a loss of trust and confidence.
This could stores and a high-service-based customer result in a decline in the customer base and proposition in our stores and autocentres.
affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
This is complemented by training from Cytech Cycles, RoSPA, and the Institute of Motor Industries, ensuring that colleagues at both stores and centres are capable of supporting the Halfords brand.
Training will be further enhanced by our Service Revolution initiative.
Reliance on Foreign Manufacturers Halfords sources a significant proportion of the Extensive research is conducted into quality merchandise it sells in its stores from outside of and ethics before the Group procures products the UK, either directly or via third-party suppliers.
from any new country or supplier.
The Groups Consequently, the Group is subject to the risks strong management team in the Far East has associated with international trade particularly been recruited locally and understands the local those which are common in the import of goods culture, market regulations and risks and we from developing countries including, but not maintain very close relationships with both our limited to, inflation, currency fluctuation, the suppliers and shippers to ensure that disruption imposition of taxes or other charges on imports, to production and supply are managed the exposure to different legal standards, the appropriately.
burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and changing foreign government policies and natural disasters.
Product and Service Quality The Board recognises that the quality and The Group constantly seeks to enhance its safety of both our products and services in our position as the store or centre of first choice stores and autocentres is of critical importance in each of the markets that it serves.
Halfords to us and that any major failure will affect continues to invest in both its existing estate consumer confidence.
We recognise that if our to ensure that it remains contemporary and in products are seen to be or perceived to be constant product innovation to meet customer of poor standard or of poor value for money needs.
In addition, the Groups market leading then customers will look to obtain these from in-store wefit proposition provides a range of our competitors.
There is also the risk that our services at a lower cost to our customers than service proposition fails due to inconsistent that provided by competitors.
Our Autocentre levels of service at individual stores and business continually seeks to provide individual centres, or through unavailability of innovative solutions for their customers, such stock as a result of disruption to the supply as brakes4life.
We also have an established chain e. g: unavailability of a distribution centre.
training infrastructure to ensure that our colleagues receive ongoing product and service training this will be enhanced by our Service Revolution initiative.
In our centres the training of our technicians to provide high quality motor vehicle repairs is enhanced through an apprenticeship programme and accredited Automotive Technician training.
Sixty per cent of our centres workshop colleagues hold a Motor Industry qualification.
Repairs are subject to extensive quality assurance processes.
The business has developed and tested continuity plans.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55 Stocking a vast range of bulbs covering most of the UK car market Strategic Getting Into Gear Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Pillar 2016 Information Technology IT Systems and Infrastructure In common with most businesses, Halfords is Extensive controls are in place to maintain dependent on the reliability and suitability of the integrity of our systems and to ensure a number of important IT systems where any that systems changes are implemented in sustained performance problems, particularly a controlled manner.
Halfords key trading with regard to stores, centres or warehouse, systems are hosted within a secure data centre multichannel and distribution systems, could operated by a specialist company remote from potentially compromise our operational capability our Support Centre.
These systems are also for a period of time.
With ambitious growth plans supported by a number of disaster recovery for our multichannel offer, our trading capacity arrangements including a comprehensive could be affected by internal and external backup strategy, and a hotlink secure data systems resilience and interdependencies.
centre hosted outside the UK, with additional access to a further data support centre elsewhere in the UK in case of a major incident.
We have recently recruited an IT Director to oversee enhancements to our IT infrastructure.
Dependence on Key Management Personnel The success of the Groups business depends Our Remuneration Policy outlined on page upon its senior management closely supervising 83 details the strategies in place to ensure all aspects of its business, in particular, the that high calibre Executives are attracted operation of the stores and autocentres, and retained.
The Group looks to improve its including the appropriate training of in-store and senior manager cadre through operating a centre colleagues, and the design, procurement talent management process to help individuals and allocation of merchandise.
achieve their full potential within Halfords and to ensure that appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the future needs of the business.
At a junior level the Group continues to invest in graduate programmes and store centre colleague training and development.
