Overview 02-09 RISK MANAGEMENT Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 AND INTERNAL CONTROL Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 the Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma plc Board Internal control meeting which includes financial information, the main features of The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted a Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks and schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for opportunities facing the Group.
The report also covers progress decision.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors against strategic objectives and shareholder related issues: maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
regular Director visits to Group companies are scheduled and open access to the subsidiary company boards is encouraged: cyclical During the year, actions to strengthen the control environment and risk-based internal control visits are carried out by internal audit continue to be taken centrally by Group management, particularly in or senior finance staff resulting in actions being fed back to each the areas of health and safety, anti-bribery and corruption, and export company and followed up by Divisional Finance Directors and controls.
The duties and responsibilities of subsidiary management Divisional Chief Executives.
Reviews are coded in terms of risk and are continually refreshed as well as documented in a manual a summary of all such reviews is given to the Audit Committee, with circulated to all subsidiary managing directors and available on our any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit collaboration platform.
A comprehensive induction programme for Committee: senior finance staff also conduct financial reviews at subsidiary finance directors was launched last year and our internal each operating company before publication of half-year and financial review procedures are currently being refreshed.
We strengthened the resources dedicated to identifying and investigating year-end gures.
We have a Groupwide IT policy supported by a potential acquisitions and the policies to ensure a rapid and programme of IT audits: and successful integration following acquisition.
The scope of the Groups the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Internal Audit function policies and the programme of compliance audits are regularly report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of internal control.
The reviewed to ensure they are sufficient to address current risks.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee chairman Group placed additional emphasis on updating our business and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are continuity plans over recent years ensuring that they are mutually used as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
complementary to our insurance programme.
The Groups treasury and hedging policy is kept under review to ensure that appropriate accounting and banking arrangements are aligned with the Groups growth and to ensure continued compliance with accounting requirements.
The internal audit function has operated independently since 2004, reporting to the Audit Committee.
In 2008 09, a dedicated Internal Audit manager was added to support the function and during 2010 11 an internal auditor based in China was recruited.
Each year we implement further improvements to our Internal Audit procedures to enhance effectiveness.
The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below: operating companies carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which action is monitored through to resolution.
Group management also compiles a summary of significant Group risks, documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks: each month the board of every operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional Chief Executive chairs this meeting.
Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with the Chief Executive and Finance Director and report on divisional progress to the Executive Board: financial and trading warning signs are reported to Group and divisional management.
Weekly data on cash management and sales and orders are also reported directly to the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Group finance team.
This framework is designed to provide an early warning of potential risks and to direct appropriate action where necessary: Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED Group risk management Board Operational Compliance Chief Executive Audit Committee Executive Board Company Secretary Divisional Finance Directors Internal Audit Whistleblowing Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which a robust structure for electronic communication and conducting spreads the Groups activities across a number of autonomous e-commerce to ensure that the Group is not negatively impacted subsidiary companies.
Each of these companies is led by a by threats to its information technology infrastructure and to high-quality board of directors including a finance executive.
minimise potential for business disruptions.
The Group has a wide range of measures, policies and framework in place which includes Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes a virtual private network covering over 80 sites worldwide, secure but is not limited to: rewalls, information management audits, disaster recovery and a mobile devices management system: and a dened organisational structure with an appropriate delegation of authority to operational management which ensures appropriate an acquisitions and disposals framework which governs the due segregation of key duties: diligence, negotiation, approval and integration processes to ensure that value enhancing, quality investments are made in order to the identication and appraisal of risks both formally, through the meet our strategic objectives.
annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and informally through close monitoring of operations: a comprehensive financial reporting system, regularly enhanced, within which actual and forecast results are compared with approved budgets and the previous years gures on a monthly basis.
Weekly cash sales orders reporting including details of financial institutions are also maintained within the financial reporting system, all of which is reviewed at both local and Group level: an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure and other capitalised costs: self-certication by operating company management of compliance and control issues: 52 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
