Overview 02-09 PRINCIPAL RISKS Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 AND UNCERTAINTIES Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Risk description Trend Potential impact Mitigation Operational Risk Weakening of Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Groups policy of Remoteness of financial control and autonomous management.
We seek to employ local high quality operations and divergence from experts.
globalisation overall Group strategy The Groups acquisition model ensures retention of management and A key operational risk in remote operations, staff in acquired businesses meaning that local expertise is maintained.
emanates from remoteness leading to unexpected Divisional Chief Executives DCEs ensure that overall Group strategy is of operations from Head financial outcomes fullled through on-going review of the businesses.
The right balance Ofce and the increasing Failure to comply with between autonomy and adherence to the overall objectives of the global spread of our local laws and Group is a key function of the DCEs and Divisional Finance Directors.
regulations in Regular visits by senior management, finance staff and Internal Audit unfamiliar territories, support local control.
leading to legal or Key KPIs: International expansion: Values alignment: regulatory disputes Development programmes Operational Risk Failure to retain key Group Development Programmes enhance the skills of executives and Staff quality staff could lead to middle managers needed in their current and future roles.
The actions and quality of our reduced innovation Comprehensive recruitment and ongoing evaluation processes assist employees affect the growth and progress in the high quality hiring and development.
of, and level of innovation in, business The Group regularly surveys staff to assess the alignment of individuals the business.
Unethical actions of with Group values.
staff could cause Key KPIs: Development programmes: R&D investment: reputational damage Values alignment: Organic revenue growth to the Group Operational Risk Loss of market share By empowering and resourcing innovation in local operations to Competition due to price pressure respond to changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of The Group faces competition and changing downward price pressure and competition can be mitigated and in the form of pricing, service, markets growth maintained.
Reduced financial We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies performance arising and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff, from competitive we are better placed to make fast progress ourselves.
threats The Group operates in specialised global niche markets offering high barriers to entry.
Key KPIs: R&D investment: Return on Sales: Organic revenue growth: Development programmes Operational Risk Loss of market share We do not place undue reliance on any one Group company nor does Pressure-point and reduced financial the Group rely heavily on one customer, supplier or transaction.
Exposures performance due to We address customer concentration at Company level through active including: loss or failure of a diversication of the customer base.
No customer represents more Large customer risk major customer than 2% of Group revenue.
individual operating Disruption of service We aim to manage the risk of timing and quality of component supply companies are at some risk to customers through by dual sourcing and through longstanding working relationships.
of over-reliance on larger supply chain Key KPIs: Organic revenue growth customers interruption Key supplier risk we rely on high quality service from our supply partners.
Operational Risk Loss of market By devolving control of product development into the autonomous Research & Development share resulting operating businesses, we both spread risk and ensure that the people New products are critical to from product best placed to service the customers needs are driving innovation.
our organic growth and obsolescence and New product development best practice is shared between Group underpin our ability to earn failure to innovate to companies and return on investment of past and future innovation high margins and high returns meet customer needs projects is tracked monthly.
This ensures that the collective experience over the long term.
and expertise of the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head Ofce approval, ensuring that the Groups significant projects are aligned to overall strategy.
Key KPIs: R&D investment: Development programmes Trend indicates managements perception of how the pre-mitigation risk has moved year on year.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk description Trend Potential impact Mitigation Operational Risk Loss of market share Workforce quality and retention is a central objective.
This focus Intangible resources resulting from a failure ensures that intangible resources stay and grow within the business.
Protection of our intellectual to protect key Operating businesses are actively encouraged to develop and protect property builds competitive intellectual property know-how in local jurisdictions.
advantage by strengthening Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the Group via the barriers to entry.
intangible resources include Key KPIs: Organic revenue growth: R&D investment: patents, product approvals, Development programmes technological know-how, branding and our workforce.
Operational Risk Delay or impact on There is substantial redundancy and back up built into Groupwide Information Technology decision making systems and the spread of business offers good protection from Business Interruption through lack of individual events.
Group and operational availability of sound We have a small central resource, Halma IT Services, to assist Group management depend on data companies with strategic IT needs and to ensure adequate IT security timely and reliable information Reduced service to policies are used across the Group.
customers due to We carry out regular IT audits.
We seek to ensure poor information We utilise external penetration testing and have completed the rollout of continuous availability, handling or a centralised IT disaster recovery solution to supplement local security and operation of interruption of processes.
Business Continuity plans are well advanced in each those systems.
Strategic Risk Failure to deliver We acquire businesses whose technology and markets we know well.
Acquisitions expected results Divisional Chief Executives are responsible for nding and completing The identication and resulting from poor acquisitions in their business sectors subject to Board approval purchase of businesses acquisition selection supported by central resources to search for opportunities.
We employ which meet our demanding Reduced financial detailed post-acquisition integration plans.
financial and growth criteria is performance arising Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination of in-house and an important part of our from failure to external experts to ensure that a comprehensive appraisal of the strategy for developing the integrate acquisitions financial position of every target is obtained.
Group, as is ensuring the new into the Group Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are valuebusinesses are rapidly Unforeseen liabilities enhancing from day one.
arising from a failure Key KPIs: Acquisition spend: ROTIC to understand acquisition targets fully Legal Risk Reputational damage The Groups emphasis on excellent financial control, high ethical Laws and regulations leading to customer standards, the deployment of high quality management resource and Group operations are subject loss and brand the strong focus on quality control over products and processes in to wide-ranging laws and damage each operating business help to protect us from product failure, regulations including business Diversion of litigation and contractual issues.
conduct, employment, management Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible environmental and health and resources creating for compliance and our performance in this area is good.
There is also opportunity costs Health and Safety policies and guidance were issued recently, with exposure to product litigation Penalties arising from enhanced monthly reporting.
Our well established policies on bribery and contractual risk.
breach of laws and and corruption have been maintained during the year to ensure regulations continued compliance with best practice internally, via the Group Code The laws and regulations we of Conduct and externally, via appropriate clauses included in third are exposed to as our party agreements.
businesses expand around We carry comprehensive insurance against all standard categories of the world increase each year.
Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to contractual liability.
Key KPIs: Values alignment 54 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Risk description Trend Potential impact Mitigation Financial Risk Constraints on, or The strong cash ow generated by the Group provides financial Cash inability to, trade exibility.
A key risk is that the Group Inability to deliver on Cash needs are monitored regularly.
In addition to short-term overdraft may run out of cash or not growth strategies facilities the Group renewed and increased to 260m its five-year have access to adequate Permanent loss of revolving credit facility during the prior year providing security of funding cash.
In addition, cash shareholder funds and sufficient headroom for its needs.
Debt levels increased this year deposits need to be held in but the Group has adequate funding available to it.
Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of high credit rated banks.
Subsidiaries report their cash status to Head Ofce every week.
Key KPIs: Cash generation Financial Risk Reduced or volatile The risk has increased because more of the Groups profits are derived Treasury Risks financial performance from non-Sterling currencies.
Currency profits are not hedged.
Foreign currency risk is the arising from Currency hedging must t with the commercial needs of the business most significant treasury translation of profit and we have in place a hedging strategy to manage Group exposures.
related risk for the Group.
In from overseas This requires the hedging of a substantial proportion of expected future times of increased volatility operations or poorly transactions up to 12 months and in exceptional cases 24 months this can have a significant managed foreign ahead.
Longer term currency trends can only be covered through a impact on performance.
The exchange exposures wide geographic spread of operations.
Group is exposed to a lesser Deviation from core The Group does not use overly complex derivative financial instruments extent to other treasury risks strategy through the and no speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
such as interest rate risk and use of speculative or We closely monitor performance against the financial covenants on our liquidity risk.
overly complex revolving credit facility and are operating well within these covenants.
financial instruments Financial penalties and reputational damage arising from breach of banking covenants Financial Risk Excessive There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension Pension deficit consumption of cash, strategy is a regular Halma Board agenda item.
The Groups strong Monitoring the funding needs limiting investment cash ows and access to adequate borrowing facilities mean that the of the Groups pension plans Unexpected variability pensions risk can be adequately managed.
is essential to meeting our in company results The Group has maintained additional pension contributions with the pension obligations overall objective of paying off the deficit in line with the Actuarys effectively.
We monitor and consider alternative means of benefit pension plans are reducing our pension risk in light of the best long-term interest of closed to new members.
Economic Risk Reduced financial Risks are primarily managed at the operating company level where Economic Conditions performance local knowledge is situated.
The financial strength and availability of In times of uncertain Loss of market share pooled finance within the Group mitigates local risks faced by operating economic conditions Unforeseen liabilities companies as does the robust credit management processes in place businesses face additional or Disruption of service across the Group.
These to customers The Halma Executive Board identies any wider trends which require include market and customer action.
Other than potential exposure to the current macro-economic risk, customer default, fraud, uncertainty in the Eurozone, none have been noted.
supply chain risk and liquidity The Groups diversity limits its exposure to economic risk arising in any risk.
Uncertainty in the one territory.
Group sales to Mainland Europe represent 25% of overall Eurozone in particular adds to sales and sales to southern Eurozone economies and Ireland represent current uncertainty.
fewer than 5% of total Group sales.
The Group does not have significant operations, cash deposits or sources of funding in these areas.
Key KPIs: International expansion: Cash generation: Development programmes Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55
