28 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 PRINCIPAL RISKS Mitigating risks and capitalising on opportunities is key to the success of our business.
Expert knowledge of our markets, clients and candidates allows us to navigate the challenges of an increasingly complex world.
RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK The Group has diversied its operations to include a balance of both CYCLICAL NATURE OF OUR temporary and permanent placement recruitment services to public and BUSINESS private sector markets, and operates across 33 countries and 20 sector The performance of the Group is signicantly impacted specialisms.
Progress is being made to further diversify the business to by changes to the underlying economic situation, mitigate the Groups reliance on the UK, Germany and Australia.
That said, particularly in the UK, Australia andGermany.
as at 30 June 2013 Group profits are largely concentrated in two countries, namely Australia and Germany.
The Groups cost base is highly variable and is carefully managed to align with business activity.
The Group has ensured that net debt has been kept at a low and appropriate level.
The Group is highly cash generative, requiring low levels of asset investment.
Cash collection is a key priority and the Group has made appropriate investment in its credit control and working capital management processes.
We have leveraged our broad geographical and sectoral footprint to win BUSINESS MODEL and maintain a significant number of multispecialism contracts with large The Group faces competition from the increasing use corporate organisations.
This has strengthened our relationship with these of social media for recruitment purposes and a growing clients, increasing our share of their recruitment spend and increasing our trend towards outsourced recruitment models with share of the markets in which we operate.
We monitor changes in the market in terms of industry trends including social media and insourcing, and continue to invest in our online presence to provide a high-quality customer experience.
We have formed a working partnership with LinkedIn to increase our exposure to online professional networking and recruitment portals.
We continue to ensure that overall remuneration packages are competitive.
TALENT The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, train, develop We continue to invest in our leadership and development programmes and retain staff to deliver its growth plans.
which are aligned with the Groups business strategy.
We provide sustainable career development paths for new recruits, starting with a structured induction programme and ongoing training as they progress their careers at Hays.
Annual succession plans are undertaken at Board and Management Board levels and across all regions to identify future potential leaders of the business.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 29 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK All new employees receive training in respect of the relevant operating COMPLIANCE standards applicable to their recruitment role, with additional support Increased employment law and regulations specic to provided by compliance functions.
certain business sectors and for temporary workers, in particular, necessitate pre-employment checks, which Compliance processes and monitoring are tailored to specic specialisms, increase the Groups exposure to potential legal, financial ensuring additional focus is given to our high-risk specialisms such as and reputational risk.
Operational and support staff receive regular training to ensure that legal and compliance updates are understood and applied.
In territories where legislation sets out additional compliance requirements, specialists are employed.
An example of this is in occupational health & safety inAustralia.
Dedicated compliance auditors conduct spot checks on candidate records, to ensure that the appropriate candidate vetting checks and due diligence obligations are carried out in line with legal and contractual requirements.
The Groups technology strategy is regularly reviewed to ensure that the RELIANCE ON TECHNOLOGY systems it operates across the Group supports its strategic direction.
Our dependence on technology in our day-to-day business means that systems failure and loss of data Technology systems are housed in various data centres and the Group would have a high impact on our operations.
has capacity to cope with a data centres loss through the establishment of disaster recovery sites that are physically based in separate locations to the ongoing operations.
Procedures for handling and storing condential, sensitive and personal DATA GOVERNANCE data are in place across the Group.
The Group works with condential, sensitive and personal data in 33 countries on a daily basis under a variety of laws Data protection and security policies and procedures are also in place and regulations.
A compliance failure would expose the across the Group and, where data protection and privacy legislation allows, Group to potential legal, financial and reputational risk.
email monitoring programmes are undertaken to address potential areas ofconcern and to protect our condential information.
During contract negotiations management seeks to minimise risk and CONTRACTS ensure that the nature of risks and their potential impact is understood.
The Group enters into contractual arrangements with clients, some of which can be onerous in terms of Our global legal team has the depth of knowledge and experience required activities.
to enable them to advise management on the level of risk presented incontracts.
The Group Finance Director reviews and approves all contracts with onerous non-standard terms.
Reviews are performed on a risk basis across key contracts to identify and agree improvements to the way in which we deliver services to clients.
profits from Australia and Euro-based markets are a material proportion FOREIGN EXCHANGE of the Groups profitability.
There is no active management of translation The Group has significant operations outside the UK and foreign exchange risk.
is therefore exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
