R RE EV VI IE EW O W OF T F TH HE B E BU US SI IN NE ES SS S Principal risks and uncertainties We discuss below the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance and our mitigating activities.
For further information on how we manage risk, see the business reviews and also page 38 within the corporate governance report for a process overview of risk management.
Specific financial risks are detailed on page 29 of the Group financial review.
AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISk AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND ExAmPLES OF mITIGATING ACTIVITY Business strategy Last October we announced ambitious and exciting growth plans for both Argos and Homebase.
Argos Inappropriate direction transformation strategy will see it become a retail digital leader, building on market-leading capabilities Poor investment decisions in Check & Reserve, internet traffic and mobile expansion.
The vision for Homebase enables a strong Failure to execute multi-channel platform alongside store refits which will create a customer-centric home-enhancement offer.
To deliver these strategies we will make significant investment in both brands.
At every Plc and Operating Board meeting, strategic issues are discussed in addition to the time dedicated to strategic reviews at various executive meetings across the Group.
Other mitigating activities include: Monthly review of performance against strategic targets Comprehensive strategic debates with the Plc Board and advisers Communication with stakeholders: investors, colleagues, suppliers, government etc.
Trading environment Our business review clearly demonstrates how macro-economic conditions remain challenging for our Impact on sales, costs, profit and cash of: customers.
We have a broad customer demographic appeal which we plan to build on as mitigation Economic conditions against the risk of a slow recovery of the UK economy.
Sales across the Group are assisted by our in-house Cost of raw material products, services Financial Services business, making it easier for our customers to buy the products they want.
We have and utilities robust planning processes: however, unseasonal or extreme weather events have the potential to create Competitor activity significant sales forecast deviations.
Seasonality and or weather Other mitigating activities include: UK-centric store network Price tracking versus our competition and dynamic pricing to ensure competitiveness is maintained Appraisal of store network Empowering customer choice by continuing to strengthen range architecture Reflecting needs of customers in financial products Embedded disciplines to maintain strong generation of cash and management of working capital Evaluating store lease renewals c. 345 over next five years to optimise the Groups store portfolio Infrastructure development projects Our strategic agenda requires us to exploit and further enhance our project management capabilities Delay or failure to manage and implement major during the year ahead.
Our governance frameworks will be instrumental in ensuring successful delivery business and infrastructure projects effectively of all aspects of the change programme.
Other mitigating activities include: Detailed approval and planning process prior to project commencement Board review of status progress of major change programmes Management expertise in significant infrastructure change programmes Post-project implementation reviews Our colleagues The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the success of the organisation.
Internal training Reliance on key personnel schemes and the graduate recruitment programme maintain the succession pool and actively encourage Availability of specialist skills promotion from within.
Additionally, in order to continue to improve our business, our existing talent base Pension obligations is continually reviewed and strengthened if required.
We are committed to open communications with colleagues at all times and monitor employee satisfaction through listening groups and employee forums.
Other mitigating activities include: Competitive remuneration packages with oversight by the Remuneration Committee Twice-yearly comprehensive succession planning sessions, up to Operating Board level Strategies for recruitment development of talent to deliver strategic priorities Suite of development programmes for high-potential colleagues at all levels of the organisation Deployment of pensions auto-enrolment, making saving into a defined contribution scheme accessible to all colleagues Closure of final salary pension scheme to future accrual to support sustainable reduction of fund deficit 30 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISk AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND ExAmPLES OF mITIGATING ACTIVITY Our customers Our team of customer insight professionals ensures that we listen and respond to our customers to Failing to meet expectations enhance continually the shopping experience.
Both businesses continue to expand product choice and Consumer preferences services which, combined with improved store and product presentation, will benefit our customers.
Changing demographics mitigating actions include: Extend use of technology platforms and innovations to give customers choice in how they shop with us Understanding customer engagement and building on loyalty to our brands Continuous review of key customer metrics such as mystery shopping and exit interviews Engaging with all customer demographics through social media developments Sourcing Overseas sourcing capabilities continue to be leveraged to benefit customers in these difficult economic Strength of supplier relationships times.
With over a third of products imported, the volatility of the global economy exposes the Group to Purchase of products whose cost base of both currency fluctuations, particularly the US dollar, and changes in freight costs.
manufacture is in currencies other than sterling, mitigating actions include: principally the US dollar Strong supplier associations bringing innovation to everyday living Seeking opportunities for further sourcing efficiencies Treasury policies to hedge currencies over appropriate time periods Forward buying of freight commitments Adjustments to customer pricing to reflect movement in hedged currency rates and freight costs Operations Within Argos, projects are progressing to redesign ways of working for a digital-led future as business Failure to ensure appropriate processes are in place processes are currently dominated by our successful catalogue heritage.
fide-risking this significant change to manage the complexity of operations, including programme requires a blend of experienced colleagues and externally-sourced talent to ensure we retain multi-channel and customer service our efficient supply chain capabilities.
A programme of store refits will continue Homebases evolution as a customer-centric home enhancement retailer.
This will provide a compelling backdrop to showcase the exclusive brands that offer differentiation from others in the marketplace.
Product availability remains a key priority as the Group mitigates complex supply chain risks through robust processes and new initiatives to enable immediacy on a wide range of products.
Other mitigating activities include: Exploiting existing infrastructure to develop market-leading fulfilment options Actively testing alternatives to the traditional Argos catalogue format Maintaining and extending Homebases award-winning installation services for kitchens, bathrooms and bedroom furniture Targeted investment in customer service Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of paramount importance to the Group.
Suppliers are required Failure to manage supplier relationships and or to sign-up to the Groups supply chain principles and to specific policies regarding products and their ensure appropriate quality checks are in place environmental impact.
Argos and Homebase teams aim to work in conjunction with suppliers to ensure improvement opportunities are explored when failings are identified as a result of systematic checks.
Other mitigating activities include: Ongoing monitoring of quality safety for goods on sale Rigorous quality safety assessment programme for new products Pre-shipment inspection of imports by a third party and our own quality teams in the Far East Robust risk-based approach to factory auditing Standard terms and conditions for all suppliers to meet required performance standards Regulatory environment Good governance practices are important to the Group.
In addition to ensuring compliance with existing Changes in UK and overseas legislation requirements such as data protection, we are active in monitoring potential future developments.
We also and regulation, eg consumer protection, lobby, often with other retailers, to support and develop the industry and the interests of consumers.
environmental regulation Home Retail Group is committed to high standards and is proud to have formed partnerships with Changes in UK fiscal employment policy, regulatory bodies such as Trading Standards, Fire and Rescue services and Environmental Health.
In 2012, eg minimum wage Argos was the first UK retailer to promote free online safety software to customers ahead of the Governments proposed legislation to ensure protection for children from adult content on the internet.
Other mitigating activities include: Membership of industry representative groups, including the British Retail Consortium Pro-active engagement with government and regulators such as Financial Conduct Authority, UK Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and Trading Standards Dedicated working parties to manage operational change Business interruption A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to continue trading.
We manage this risk by Acts of terrorism maintaining and routinely testing our business continuity plans.
The Group remains vigilant to supplier Failure or unavailability of operational vulnerability and continues to work towards a sustainable outcome for all parties.
and or IT infrastructure Other mitigating activities include: Delay or interruption in service provided by Business continuity and recovery planning third-party suppliers IT recovery plans including website resilience and penetration tests Third-party supplier management Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 31
