Principal risks and uncertainties HomeServe has a risk management process which provides a structured and consistent framework for identifying, assessing and responding to risks.
These risks are assessed in relation to the The table below sets out what the Board Groups strategy, business performance believes to be the principal risks and and financial condition and a formal risk uncertainties facing the Group, the mitigation plan is agreed with clear ownership mitigating actions for each, and an update and accountability.
Risk management on any change in the profile of each risk operates at all levels throughout the Group, during the past year.
These should be read across geographies and business lines.
in conjunction with the Chief Executives and Financial reviews.
Additional risks and Risks to HomeServes business are either uncertainties of which we are not currently specific to HomeServes business model, aware or which we currently believe are not such as affinity partner relationships and significant may also adversely affect our underwriting, or more general, such as strategy, business performance or financial the impact of competition and regulatory condition in the future.
Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2012 Annual Report Ability to implement an updated We have strengthened the UK During FY2013 we have made good strategy successfully within the management team and have a progress in restoring our customer UK business number of new developments that focused culture in the UK, with we are testing and implementing.
improved customer satisfaction and The successful implementation a significantly reduced number of of an updated strategy and the The UK business has a detailed customer complaints.
restoration of a customer focused project plan for improving its sales culture in the UK business is of and marketing effectiveness, its It has taken longer than initially considerable importance to our governance and controls and planned to test and improve our future.
These actions sales and marketing effectiveness, are being carefully monitored which is expected to result in a If we are not able to implement the and updated as we complete continued reduction in UK earnings strategy or achieve the restoration initiatives.
Customer as effectively or as rapidly as we numbers are expected to stabilise at intend, the future performance of The Business has the financial around 1.9m from the end of March the UK business may be adversely strength to incur additional costs 2014. affected, potentially materially.
There is no certainty as to the scope and cost of the additional activities that we may need to undertake to achieve our desired culture.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 30 Business review Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2012 Annual Report We have regular contact We have continued to sign and Commercial relationships and reviews with the senior renew affinity partnerships with Underpinning the success in management of our affinity utilities in the UK, USA and Italy.
our chosen markets are close partners to ensure that we commercial relationships affinity In the UK, we have renewed two of respond to their needs and partner relationships with utility our larger water utility partnerships deliver the service that they companies, household appliance during the year.
manufacturers and financial In the USA, we have signed new institutions.
The loss of one of these There are a number of agreements with 10 utilities.
relationships could impact our partnerships across our markets In Italy, we have signed long future customer and policy growth that mitigate, in part, the impact term agreements with Enel Energia plans and retention rates.
of losing any single relationship.
While these partnerships are In Spain, we are planning for secured under long-term contracts, continued strong growth in which increase the security of these customer and policy numbers relationships over the mediumin FY2014.
term, they can be terminated in certain circumstances.
Competition The market and the activities of There has been no significant other participants are regularly change in the competitive There are a number of businesses reviewed to ensure that the landscape in any of the countries in that provide services that are strategies and offerings of current which we operate.
similar to those of the Group and and potential competitors are could therefore compete in one In the UK, we have seen increased fully understood.
or more of our chosen markets.
media advertising by our main Increased competition could Both qualitative and quantitative competitor but this has not had an affect our ability to meet our research is undertaken to impact on our ability to achieve expectations and objectives for the ensure that our products and our targets.
Business in terms of the number of services continue to meet the In the USA, we continue to acquire customers, policies or the financial needs of our customers whilst policy books from utilities who run returns achieved.
retaining a competitive position their own programmes.
FY2013 we have acquired 52k policies from Montana Dakota We believe we have a compelling proposition for customers, Utilities.
providing them with real value.
In France and Spain, there has This helps reduce the impact of been no significant change in the increased competition.
Customer loyalty retention The policy retention rate is one Retention remains high in all of our Key Performance our countries.
A key element of our business Indicators.
Any variance to model is customer loyalty.
Any In the UK, the rate has fallen to budget is carefully investigated to reduction in the proportion of 79% compared to 80% in the identify why customer behaviour customers renewing their previous year.
The rate has been is changing and to implement policies could significantly increasing during the second half corrective action.
of the year as the number of first We have a wide range of tools year renewing customers reduced available to manage retention and we implemented a number rates including specific retention of new retention tools for our call propositions.
The new product propositions that we have been There are also dedicated retention testing in the UK should also call centre agents who are trained contribute to an improved retention and experienced in talking to rate in future years.
customers who are considering not renewing their policy.
We remain confident that the UK retention rate can increase to over 80%.
In the USA, the rate has increased from 79% to 80%.
In France, Domo has increased its retention rate from 88% to 89%.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2012 Annual Report Marketing effectiveness The performance of each We are continuing to test different marketing campaign and channel product and pricing propositions in A significant reduction in the our direct mail marketing in the UK.
is regularly reviewed, with any response rates on direct marketing significant deviation to the or telesales campaigns could have In the UK, we are planning to develop expected response rate quickly a significant impact on customer the internet channel and sales identified and remedial action and policy numbers.
through our partner call centres to taken for subsequent campaigns.
reduce our reliance on direct mail.
In the USA and Spain, we continue to see strong customer growth with good results from our direct mail marketing in the USA and telesales activity in Spain.
Exposure to legislation or We have regulatory specialists During FY2013 we have regulatory requirements and compliance teams within strengthened our regulatory and each of our businesses to help compliance teams across all our We are subject to a broad spectrum ensure that all aspects of the businesses.
of regulatory requirements in each legislative regime in each territory of the markets in which we operate, In the UK, we have completed the are fully understood and adopted particularly relating to product implementation of the majority as required.
design, marketing materials, sales of our business improvement processes and data protection.
Specifically in the UK, we are initiatives which were in line with maintaining a regular dialogue the feedback from our FCA Failure to comply with the with the FCA, ensuring our actions supervisory team.
regulatory requirements in any are in line with their feedback.
The FCA investigation into our of our countries could result in us having to suspend, either We keep up to date with changes historic UK issues is ongoing and is expected to take a number of temporarily or permanently, in government and regulatory certain activities.
policy, which ensures that our months to complete.
products and services are In addition, legislative changes In the USA, we have been proactively designed, marketed and sold in related to our partners may change working with local attorney generals accordance with all relevant legal their obligations with regard to and media commentators to ensure and regulatory requirements and the infrastructure they currently they understand the service offered that their terms and conditions manage and hence the products by HomeServe and to minimise remain appropriate and meet the and services we can offer to the risk of any negative media customer need.
It is possible such commentary when we launch own legislative changes could reduce, or brand campaigns into new states.
even remove, the need for certain of our products and services.
Financial cost of customer Our original provision has to During FY2013 we began to re-contact exercises date been sufficient to cover re-contact all customers whose the cost of these exercises.
Our complaints may not have been The cost of re-contacting assumptions for the remainder appropriately managed during the customers and the possible of the exercise remain in line with winter of 2010 and to roll out the compensation that may be paid our expectations.
process for re-contacting customers to them if any detriment is who may have suffered detriment identified, have been based on The UK business is a cash as a result of the way in which they our estimates.
It is possible that generative, profitable business were sold their policy.
the actual number of customers, which, if necessary, could set response rates and level of aside additional funds to meet At 31 March 2013 we have 11.5m compensation could be different.
of the original provision remaining which we believe will be sufficient to cover the remaining costs.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 32 Business review Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2012 Annual Report We use a number of underwriters, We continue to review our Availability of underwriters with the main provider in the UK underwriting relationships on a The policies that we market and being separate to those in the rest regular basis to ensure they provide administer with customers are each of Europe and the USA.
the best returns for customers and individually underwritten by third shareholders.
We have regular contact party underwriters, independent of HomeServe.
and reviews with the senior management of the underwriters We act as an insurance to ensure that claims frequencies, intermediary and do not take on repair costs and service any material insurance risk.
standards are in line with their If these underwriters were unable expectations.
unwilling to underwrite these risks The principal underwriters it would require us to insure these are subject to medium-term risks directly, thereby exposing the agreements, with the rates business to material insurance risk, subject to regular review.
which is contrary to our preferred In addition, we maintain operating model.
relationships with a number of underwriters and regularly review the market to ensure we understand current market conditions, how these apply to our policies and how we can mitigate the loss of an existing underwriter.
We monitor customer service In FY2013 we have implemented Quality of customer service standards at a number of different a new process for monitoring Our reputation is heavily customer contact points in each customer satisfaction across all our dependent on the quality of our of our operations using both operations at a number of different customer service.
internal data and an independent customer contact points.
Any failure to meet our service third party company.
In the UK, our focus on improving standards or negative media The results of these are reviewed customer service has been coverage of poor service could have on a regular basis and action particularly successful with the a detrimental impact on customer plans produced to address number of complaints received and policy numbers.
Processes have been established to ensure that all directly employed engineers and subcontractors meet minimum standards.
These include criminal record checks and minimum qualification requirements.
Dependence on recruitment and Our employment policies, We have continued to strengthen retention of skilled personnel remuneration and benefits our management teams across packages and long-term all our operations particularly in Our ability to meet growth incentives are regularly reviewed the areas of compliance, project expectations and compete and designed to be competitive management and IT.
effectively is, in part, dependent with other companies.
We have significantly strengthened on the skills, experience and performance of our personnel.
Employee surveys, performance the UK management team and board during the year including The inability to attract, motivate or reviews and regular retain key talent could impact on communication of business the appointment of a new Marketing Director, HR Director and our overall business performance.
activities are just some of the methods used to understand Non-Executive Chairman.
and respond to employees views and needs.
Processes are in place to identify high performing individuals and to ensure that they not only have fulfilling careers, but we are managing succession planning.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2012 Annual Report The criteria for entering a new During FY2013 we completed a test Exposure to country and regional risk country include a full assessment marketing campaign in Germany.
of the stability of its economy and As a result of our growing We have also signed long-term political situation, together with a international footprint we are affinity partner deals in Italy, having review of the manner and way in subject to increased economic, tested marketing activity over the which business is conducted.
political and other risks associated past 2 years.
with operating in overseas When entering a new country, we Our Spanish business continues to territories.
generally do so on a small scale see strong growth in its customer test basis.
This low risk entry A variety of factors, including and policy numbers despite the strategy minimises the likelihood changes in a specific countrys country having difficult economic of any significant loss.
political, economic or regulatory conditions.
requirements, as well as the potential for geographical turmoil including terrorism and war, could result in the loss of service.
Our IT systems become a The Group reviews its systems During FY2013 we used external constraint to growth and drive and processes on a regular basis.
consultants to review our core inefficiency instead of efficiency As part of these reviews it looks operational system, Ensura.
improvements at the future plans of each of the As a result of their businesses in terms of customer The Groups core IT system recommendations we are planning and policy growth, product and Ensura is used in each of our to implement a new packaged IT process design and development businesses.
The system is now system across the entire business requirements and the potential around 20 years old and has had a over the next 3 years.
number of in house developments.
The updated system will reduce our The system is dependent on All system developments and reliance on in house expertise and internal development resource and enhancements undergo a will also enable us to implement new knowledge.
rigorous financial review and developments more quickly and the proposed benefits are more effectively than in the past.
monitored and subject to post implementation reviews.
Our IT developments are subject to a prioritisation process which takes into account the availability of both internal and external resource and the proposed benefits of the project.
Financial strategy and Interest rate risk As a result of our relatively low level treasury risk Our policy is to manage our of bank borrowings and a stable interest cost using a mix of fixed interest environment we have not The main financial risks are and variable rate debts.
Where entered into any swaps during the availability of short and necessary, this is achieved by FY2013.
long-term funding to meet business entering into interest rate swaps needs, the risk of suppliers There has been no significant for certain periods, in which we and policyholders not paying change in the level of mid-term agree to exchange, at specified monies owed and fluctuations in policy cancellations.
intervals, the difference between interest rates.
Our banking facility is not due for fixed and variable rate interest renewal until FY2017.
Our net debt amounts calculated by reference at 31 March 2013 was 42.9m, to an agreed notional principal significantly within the facility limit amount.
designated to hedge underlying debt obligations.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 34 Business review Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2012 Annual Report Financial strategy and treasury Credit risk risk continued The risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed by only depositing funds with reputable and creditworthy banking institutions.
The risk of a policyholder defaulting is mitigated as any policy cover will cease as and when any premium fails to be paid.
Liquidity risk HomeServe manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows.
Going concern and asset impairment The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review.
This Financial review also includes the headline financial results, cash flow and financing information as well as details on the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, forecasts and cash flows, including reviewing a number of scenarios in connection with the future financial performance of the UK business, and have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, the Directors have considered the carrying value of goodwill and other assets in the UK business and have concluded that there is no impairment of these assets.
Johnathan Ford Chief Financial Officer 21 May 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35 Corporate responsibility We are committed to developing and implementing a successful corporate responsibility programme that benefits key stakeholders and utilises our core skills to make a sustainable difference to the communities we operate in.
We believe that a successful business must also be a responsible business.
Our corporate responsibility objectives We aim to: support our vision and values, with our key focus being on the following four areas: Achieve sustainable profits for our shareholders 1.
Customers Implement and maintain ethical, Build enduring relationships sustainable and responsible principles throughout the supply chain with key stakeholders, Ensure that the customer remains at the including our customers, heart of everything we do partners and the community Treat customers fairly throughout the customer experience.
Employees Respect the environment Embed customer values and behaviours Hire, develop and retain talented people Use our core skills to give to ensure that our customers enjoy a something back to our local consistently good experience Provide a safe, healthy and inclusive communities.
