Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties The Group is exposed to Risks Specific to the Nature of Hunting Group Businesses a wide variety of commercial, operational and financial risks and the Board has established Product Quality and Raw Material an internal control process to Reliability Commodity Prices manage, monitor and review these risks which is described The Group has an established reputation Hunting is exposed to the influence of oil in more detail on page 80. for producing high quality products and gas prices as the supply and demand Group risks are formally capable of withstanding high pressure, for energy is a key driver of demand for high temperature environments.
reviewed by the Board at least three times a year and are A failure of any one of these components Oil and gas exploration companies may discussed at every Board could adversely impact the Groups reduce or curtail operations if prices reputation and demand for the Groups become or are expected to become meeting.
entire range of products and services.
uneconomical and therefore continuation of prices above these levels is critical to the The Groups principal risks are Controls and Actions industry and the financial viability of the those that the Board considers Quality assurance standards are monitored, Hunting Group.
measured and regulated within the Group would have a major impact on under the authority of a Quality Assurance Controls and Actions the operational, financial and Director, who reports directly to the Chief Working capital and in particular inventory reported performance of the Executive.
levels are closely managed to ensure the Group maintains a sufficient adaptability to business and are therefore of meet changes in demand.
Movement in Year heightened importance.
The risk of poor product quality or reliability has remained relatively The Group maintains three operating unchanged during the year with no platforms: the Well Construction and Well significant issues raised by the Groups Completion segments expect to benefit customers or during the Boards internal when exploration companies are active monitoring process.
in their drilling operations and the Well Intervention segment benefits when wells are subject to maintenance or require testing or repair work.
Movement in Year With the Groups continuing strategy of product expansion the Board believes that the likelihood of future price changes affecting a major financial impact on the Group remains broadly unchanged.
34 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Acquisitions and Relationships with Key Shale Drilling Capital Investment Customers Acquisitions and capital investment The Groups financial success is ultimately The Group provides products to the oil form the basis of the Groups strategy of defined by its relationships with its key and gas shale drilling industry.
Although it expansion and development.
A material reduction in orders is now an established practice in the US, incurs the potential for business disruption, from a major customer, whether through significant sections of the public continue management distraction, interruption to IT competitive action, contractual dispute, to view this activity as high risk and any systems and the consequent poor financial business consolidation or change in consequent moratorium or new laws may returns that would emanate from these strategy, could impact the Groups financial unfavourably impact the industry.
issues if not controlled properly.
The Group is also reliant upon the conduct of its Controls and Actions Controls and Actions customers, given its products are exported The Board monitors public and political The Board reviews and challenges each by those customers across the world and opinion and maintains an awareness of potential acquisition prior to approval and used in a range of environments, including the potential for changes to legislation frequently engages consultants to provide deep sea exploration and production.
especially with regard to the US where the expert analysis of the key issues.
Controls and Actions The success of each acquisition is assessed Senior management maintains close The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of through a post acquisition appraisal process relationships with key customers and seeks products that extends beyond supplying that provides a learning platform for future to maintain the highest level of service to the shale drilling industry, including the business combinations.
preserve Huntings reputation for quality.
supplies for conventional drilling and the manufacture of high precision and The Group has a very wide customer base advanced technology components for both The Board and senior management follow that includes many of the major oil and the onshore and offshore markets.
a rigorous process of approving, managing gas service providers and no one customer and monitoring capital investments along represents an overly significant portion of with planning for contingencies.
All Many of the Groups facilities have Group revenue.
capital expenditure above discretionary the flexibility to re-configure their limits requires Board approval prior to manufacturing processes to meet with a commitment.
Movement in Year change in the pattern of demand.
The Board believes that the risks associated with key customers remained stable Movement in Year Movement in Year during 2013.
During 2013 the Board focused on organic The Board believes that US consumers are expansion and consequently heightened becoming more aware of the heightened the Groups relative exposure to the risks benefits and reduced risks associated with associated with capital investment while at shale drilling and that public resistance in the same time reduced the risks associated the US has abated to a certain degree.
The Board therefore considers that the risk of a reduction in shale drilling activity in the US has diminished.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 35 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risks Common to International Manufacturing Businesses Economics and Key Executives Health, Safety and the Geopolitics Environment HS&E The economic and political environments The Group is highly reliant on the Due to the wide nature of the Groups in which the Group operates have the continued service of its key executives activities it is subject to a relatively high potential to impact demand for energy and senior management, who possess number of HS&E risks and the laws and therefore the Groups range of products commercial, engineering, technical and and regulations issued by each of the and services.
financial skills that are critical to the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups established facilities in the The Groups exposure to risk therefore Asia Pacific region has proportionately Controls and Actions includes the potential for the occurrence of increased its exposure to the emerging Remuneration packages are regularly a reportable incident, the financial risk of markets in that part of the world.
As they reviewed to ensure that key executives a breach of HS&E regulations and the risk grow, these economies could continue to are remunerated in line with market rates.
of unexpected compliance expenditure be less stable than Huntings established External consultants are regularly engaged whenever a law or regulation is renewed regions of Europe and North America.
to provide guidance on best practice.
However, exposure to the risks of high Senior management regularly review the Controls and Actions growth within these regions is considered availability of the necessary skills within the The Board targets to achieve a record a necessary part of the Boards expansion Group and seeks to engage suitable staff of nil incidents and further aims for full strategy as well as a continued presence where they feel there is vulnerability.
compliance with the laws and regulations in the stable areas of Europe and North in each jurisdiction in which the Group America.
Movement in Year The composition of the Board has not Controls and Actions changed during the year and each member Every Group facility is overseen by a health Management and the Board closely has received further inductions to the and safety officer with the responsibility for monitor projected economic trends Groups businesses.
ensuring current and newly issued HS&E in order to match capacity to regional standards are complied with.
A number of changes have arisen at the senior management level with all vacated The Board receives a Group HS&E Areas exposed to high political risk are positions being filled by competent compliance report at every Board meeting.
noted by the Board and are strategically individuals who are anticipated to avoided.
proactively contribute to the success of Movement in Year the Group.
The Group incurs a small number of minor Movement in Year incidents each year, which is significantly Notwithstanding the Groups strongest Due to the small turnover of key personnel, below the industry average and is similar to presence remaining in North America the the Board has assessed the risk of losing key the Groups record in prior years.
The risks risk of exposure to economic uncertainty executives as unchanged from last year.
associated with HS&E have therefore not has been slightly heightened during materially changed.
Details of the Groups HS&E record are disclosed on page 41.
36 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Effective Control Over Fluctuation in Currency Subsidiaries Exchange Rates Group subsidiaries operate within a control Many of the Groups businesses import or framework with a degree of autonomy export goods and services and may have vested in local management.
Autonomy to transact in currencies other than their incurs the risk of local decisions being own functional currency.
This exposes made outside the parameters of the Boards the Group to currency fluctuations that strategies and policies, possible breaches of could affect reported results and the local the Groups Code of Conduct and a general carrying values of assets and liabilities.
ineffectiveness by local management to conduct business in a manner that furthers In addition, the Groups consolidated the interests and profitability of the Group.
financial statements are subject to currency fluctuations arising on the conversion of Controls and Actions each businesss financial statements into Each subsidiary is subject to regular the Groups presentational currency.
assessment that includes Board and management meetings, regular reporting Controls and Actions and frequent contact.
Compliance is further The Group monitors each businesss checked by internal audit.
The Group is forthcoming exposure to foreign currency also subject to external audit.
transactions using weekly forecasts of funding and currency requirements.
A conference of senior management is held Exposures may be hedged, fully or partly, annually in which key business operations with primary and derivative financial are discussed and challenged.
instruments up to 18 months forward.
Senior managers at the Groups subsidiaries The functional currency of each business remain aware of their responsibilities to is regularly assessed by local and central corporate governance and the Groups own management and accounting records are operational policies.
re-configured when the functional currency changes.
Movement in Year No concerns were raised by the Board Senior management review the currency during the year.
profile of the Groups budgets and forecasts to assess the exposure to currency risk arising from retranslation of subsidiary financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments may be acquired to mitigate this translation risk.
Movement in Year Having changed the presentation currency to US dollars, the risk of annual volatility in Group consolidated results due to exchange rate movements has been significantly reduced.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 37
