26 IMI plc PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We have in place a well-established risk management process and framework which together are designed to identify, manage and mitigate the business risks we face.
We operate an integrated top down and bottom up approach to identifying and assessing business risks and a full summary of our risk management framework and process is given on page 46.
In addition to the risks described here, we are also exposed to a number of financial market risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
A description of these risks and our centralised approach to managing them is described in Section 4.4 of the financial statements.
The Board has identified the top ten risks facing the Group, which are shown in the table below.
For each risk, the current risk rating and change in risk during 2013 is shown, the latter by means of an arrow.
If we fail to manage the risks appropriately in such areas as compliance with legislation, health & safety, product integrity and supply chain, this results in both financial and reputational consequences for the Group which would divert resources away from activities required to fulfill our strategic objectives.
Similarly our strategy is built around a steady stream of new product introductions and value enhancing acquisitions which, if not delivered successfully, could result in the Group failing to achieve its growth objectives.
RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH We have set ourselves very high standards Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in LEGISLATION AND A BREACH in our approach to ethics and corruption The IMI Way, our code of conduct, providing a guiding set of values OF OUR OWN HIGH in business.
We need to ensure, as we that exemplify how IMI employees should behave.
STANDARDS OF ETHICAL expand our operations in emerging markets, The annual corporate IMI Way Day was held in June which included BEHAVIOUR that we fully maintain these standards face-to-face training for all employees.
even though the local legal and regulatory RISK LEVEL: Policies, manuals, training, business processes and monitoring of key requirements and business standards may HIGH compliance, tax and legal risks.
We face legislation around anti-bribery, fair competition, fraud and tax Group platform and specific territory resources dedicated to legal, tax, law and need to ensure compliance.
consequences of non-compliance include Training of employees focusing on how to apply The IMI Way in everyday serious financial and reputational damage.
situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and antibribery and corruption.
Availability and promotion of the whistle blowing policy and the IMI hotline to report concerns anonymously.
Internal control audits by Group Assurance.
WE FAIL TO DELIVER SOME We will need to undertake a number of major Upgrade of resources and talent in project management.
MAJOR TRANSFORMATIONAL change projects in line with our strategic Regular review of project progression by the Executive Committee.
PROJECTS SUCCESSFULLY objectives including: business reorganisations Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action plans and implementation of IT systems.
If we fail to for all major change projects.
RISK LEVEL: deliver the desired objectives it could have an HIGH adverse financial impact on the Group.
FAILURE OF OUR HEALTH, We recognise that we have a duty of care Established global process in place to ensure that health, safety and SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL to our employees.
We have made great environmental matters are appropriately addressed and any such risks HSE CONTROLS RESULTING progress in recent years but understand are minimised including monthly reporting to, and review at the IN HARM TO EMPLOYEES OR the impact on our employees from the failure Executive Committee.
OTHER STAKEHOLDERS of this obligation.
This could result in injury Sharing of best HSE practice through regional HSE forums.
or death to our employees or others and RISK LEVEL: Platform level HSE resource to proactively manage and audit platform environmental damage with the consequential MEDIUM HSE performance.
impact of reputational damage and risk of regulator action.
Group Environment, Health and Safety function with experienced specialist employees to provide support and guidance to businesses - including the conduct of regular risk control and health and safety audits.
Group Overview Business Review Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION We pride ourselves on our innovative Continued focus on quality and safety, including audits to FAILURE OF PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY engineering solutions we provide for our appropriate quality standards.
The quality and safety of our Processes to identify risk and mitigate the reputational and legal products is of the highest importance and RISK LEVEL: implications of any failure.
MEDIUM if we fail to deliver quality and safe products Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality or advanced technical solutions then we and product development.
face a financial and reputational impact.
The Group has a robust approach to managing contractual liabilities to protect us from undue financial exposures.
LOSS OF A KEY FACILITY A temporary or permanent loss of a key Risk control surveys undertaken annually at all key sites to ensure manufacturing site or warehouse as a result compliance with best practice in property risk management.
of a natural catastrophe or any other reason RISK LEVEL: Development and regular testing of robust business continuity plans.
MEDIUM would have a material adverse impact on our ability to meet our customers needs.
FAILURE TO DEVELOP A Our growth drivers around climate change, Continued investment in research and development working with our key PIPELINE OF NEW PRODUCTS resource scarcity, urbanisation and an account management teams to ensure we meet our customer needs.
ageing population, require us to deliver new Centres of design and technological excellence established in a number RISK LEVEL: innovative products for our end customers.
MEDIUM Failure to maintain new product momentum will impact our ability to grow.
MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS M&A An important part of our growth agenda is Resourced central M&A function working with our divisions to identify to make acquisitions which compliment or acquisition opportunities.
If we acquire RISK LEVEL: Robust due diligence.
MEDIUM businesses which do not deliver the expected synergies or have significant liability exposures it could have a negative financial impact on the Group and restrict our ability to meet growth targets.
FAILURE TO ATTRACT Our success as a business will depend on Succession plans in place and regularly reviewed.
AND RETAIN TALENT ensuring we get the right people in key positions Group-wide training and development programmes.
If we lose key personnel or RISK LEVEL: Increased resources in emerging markets.
cannot recruit and retain high calibre managers MEDIUM and engineering talent, this may lead to the Regular Group-wide employee surveys and action plans targeted by Group not being able to effectively implement its Company or geography.
FAILURE TO MANAGE We have a significant number of contracts Global Procurement function that co-ordinates IMIs approach to supply THE SUPPLY CHAIN with a broad base of suppliers.
If we fail chain risk management.
to meet our customers requirements in Monitoring of risks and development of contingency plans to mitigate the RISK LEVEL: respect of quality or delivery as a result of an impact of a supplier failure or increased prices.
MEDIUM interruption in the supply chain then it could Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers.
have a material impact on the Groups results.
Moves to lower cost manufacturing facilities, on-going review of alternative low cost suppliers and, where appropriate, supplier consolidation.
Training and audit programme to validate suppliers business processes, quality and standards.
IT FAILURE SYSTEM COLLAPSE We utilise a significant number of IT Development and regular testing of business continuity plans.
AND LOSS OF DATA systems to support the Groups production, Ensuring business continuity plans are robust and address technology, marketing, sales and financial temporary unavailability of IT systems.
Failure of any of the systems or LOW Cyber security risk assessments undertaken and appropriate corruption or loss of data could have a major actions taken.
Strategy to upgrade or replace key systems.
Risk Appetite The Board has considered the Groups risk appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve our strategic objectives.
Risk appetite is higher for new product development, emerging market growth and acquisitions, in keeping with our growth strategy and is lower for employee safety and regulatory compliance.
Our risk appetite has been communicated to the Divisional Managing Directors to ensure their decision making behaviour is consistent with the risk appetite set by the Board.
