OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Management Overview We are subject to the same general risks as many other We outline the principal risks businesses: for example, changes in general economic conditions, including currency and interest rate uctuations, changes in specific to our business and how taxation legislation, cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT we manage and mitigate them.
infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, the impact of competition, political instability in some of the countries in which Not all these factors are within we operate and source our raw materials and the impact of our direct control and the list is natural disasters.
There may be other risks and uncertainties that are unknown to us and the list may change as something that seems immaterial now assumes greater importance in the future, and vice versa.
RISK REDUCTION IN SIZE OF THE LEGITIMATE TOBACCO MARKET Principal risk to strategy impact on sales volume and pro tability Impact Long-term Cause Action Changes in regulation In many of the countries in which we operate there are already The Group engages with key internal and external stakeholders a wide variety of regulatory restrictions in place which impact as part of its rational regulator strategy to ensure that our consumers by in uencing availability, demand and freedom regulatory proposals are proportionate and do not lead to to use our products.
Excessive and disproportionate regulation, excessive regulation.
This engagement includes: both present and future, could have an adverse effect on our prioritising the Groups expertise and resources according consumers and, therefore, the demand for our products, to the relevant key regulatory issues: as well as the cost of continuing to comply with such increasing regulation.
cross-market liaison to ensure best practice from markets already impacted: engagement, where possible, with regulators: consulting with external experts to provide advice and guidance: providing industry speci c information to ensure that regulators have a more balanced fact base: highlighting the unintended consequences of proposed regulatory change: and making legal challenges against excessive regulation.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 37 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Cause Action Increases in excise duty The use of tobacco excise rates as a perceived means of raising We engage with local tax and customs authorities as well additional public funding and or the satisfaction of public private as politicians legislators and media where appropriate to tobacco control agendas.
provide informed input to the unintended consequences of excise increases e. g. widening the price differential between tobacco products in neighbouring countries can increase the attractiveness to the consumer of purchasing non-domestic duty paid product, particularly in markets where economic pressures are impacting consumers disposable income.
We monitor and compile ongoing analysis to ensure strategic price and product offerings exist in the context of the excise duty structures in each market, enabling our portfolio to meet consumer preferences across different price points.
Illicit trade The legitimate tobacco industry continues to be subject to Specialist teams are employed in order to provide effective the signi cant threat and impact of illicit trade.
The sale of support to the business and governments in the combating of counterfeit product and smuggled illicit whites in our markets illicit trade, including market analysis and intelligence to provide act as a direct competitor to legitimate domestic duty paid, appropriate and targeted solutions to the problem.
This forms a travel retail and duty free products, eroding our volumes and key part of our continuing support of the EU in its anti-illicit trade market shares.
initiatives, and our work alongside the European Commissions Anti-Fraud Of ce OLAF and law enforcement agencies both in the EU and elsewhere.
We maintain strong business conduct standards and controls, both for our business and our first-line customers in order to prevent our products being diverted.
Macro-economic conditions A material decline in the economic conditions affecting We monitor and analyse economic indicators and consumer consumers may change their consumption patterns, consumption patterns, which in turn in uences our portfolio including the purchase of illicit products.
and pricing decisions, as well as our engagement focus and our investment in combating illicit trade in those markets most affected and relevant to our business.
38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RISK MARKET PLACE Principal risk to strategy impact on sales, cost and revenue Impact Long-term Cause Action Ongoing uncertainty regarding the future of the euro, or the Our international footprint and total tobacco portfolio provides exit of one or more Eurozone countries may impact consumer an increasingly balanced exposure to both EU and non-EU spending patterns and or cause disruption to the business as a markets.
This is supported by our divisional structure aligning whole, including our Group and in-market nancing key strategic drivers to our geographic footprint.
arrangements and our manufacturing and supply chain A signi cant proportion of our revenue is from our sales in operations.
Consequently, we continuously monitor Any material decline in the economic circumstances of, and or our exposure and review our total tobacco portfolio and our our performance in, our key European markets may affect our existing processes and policies to minimise our economic future pro t development and have an adverse impact on the exposure and to preserve our ability to operate in a range Groups revenue or pro ts.
of potential conditions that may exist should one or more of these future events occur.
Our global manufacturing and supply chain operations have crisis management and contingency plans in place which are regularly reviewed in line with the risks to their ongoing requirements.
RISK FINANCING Principal risk to strategy impact on costs and cash Impact Medium-term Cause Action We have a signi cant level of committed debt which is nanced The Group Treasury Committee GTC sets out a framework for primarily in the debt capital markets and in the bank loan the treasury function to operate within.
We expect to rely on these markets to re finance this amongst other things, nancing, liquidity and counterparty risk debt when it matures and rely on the availability of committed and is fully reviewed periodically.
funds from our bank counterparties to be available when The GTC oversees the operation of Group Treasury in required to be drawn.
accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board.
As approximately half of the Groups debt is currently at xed Cash ows and nancing requirements are regularly forecast levels of interest, the Group is exposed to movements in and developments in debt capital and bank loan markets are interest rates which could result in higher cash out ows on monitored to ensure we are well placed to meet the future the remainder.
nancing needs of the Group.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Principal Risks and Uncertainties RISK LEGAL & REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Principal risk to strategy financial loss, reputational damage Impact Long-term Cause Action Failure to comply with legislation Failure to comply with local and international laws including We monitor closely developments in international sanctions sanctions may result in investigations.
This may cause and ensure that we are fully compliant with them.
damage to our reputation and has the potential for financial The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of and criminal penalties for both the Group and individuals.
Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with legislation relevant to a UK listed company and in the countries in which we operate.
Steering groups exist for key areas of legal compliance to provide expert advice in the development of policy, process, training and monitoring of compliance.
E-learning courses are provided to management and relevant staff to ensure understanding of key regulatory and compliance requirements.
Senior management certify the compliance of their area of the business with the Code of Conduct as part of an annual certi cation process.
Tobacco litigation Tobacco litigation claims are pending against the Group in a To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group number of countries.
More claims may be brought in the future, has been successful and or resulted in the recovery of damages.
including claims for personal injury and the recovery of medical We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the costs allegedly incurred in treating smokers.
If any claim were to defence of product liability litigation to provide advice and be successful, it might result in a signi cant liability for damages guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage and might lead to further claims against us.
Regardless of the litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
outcome, the costs of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
Signi cant market positions Our signi cant market position in certain countries could result The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with competition authorities, including the potential for monetary competition laws in the countries in which we operate.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising in competition laws to provide advice and guidance regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws.
40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RISK DELIVERY OF MATERIAL INITIATIVES Principal risk to strategy impact on delivery of financial objectives Impact Medium-term Cause Action In order to achieve our strategic objectives, the Group may be The Group operates a formal project approval process.
required to undertake material initiatives.
This ensures an appropriate and transparent review and selection of project proposals aligned to the Groups strategic The Group operates within a regulatory environment that can and operational objectives.
require the implementation of material initiatives to address changing legal requirements.
To support the successful delivery of material initiatives within the organisation the Group has developed and implemented a standardised project management process that provides a robust framework to enable effective change management.
This approach is adopted across the Group and provides a consistent and disciplined approach to the management of material initiatives, supported by the employment of project managers across the Group to ensure the right skills are available to successfully deliver such initiatives.
Regular reporting on the progress of key projects is presented to the OPEX to ensure appropriate milestone tracking, the continuing assessment of deliverables in changing markets, and the evaluation of interdependencies across the business.
Bene ts achieved on key projects are appropriately certi ed before being reported externally.
We also carry out post-implementation reviews to ensure appropriate feedback is captured to constantly improve our change management approach.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 41
