STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risk Factors It is important to ensure we have effective and proportionate processes in place to control and manage risks faced by the Group as a whole.
This is recognised in everything we do, and is fundamental to the performance of each of the business divisions.
A number of factors could potentially affect the Groups operating results and financial position principal risk factors.
The Group adopts a risk management process which is intended to ensure a consistent and coherent approach to managing the principal risk factors that are described in this section.
These principal risk factors have been identified by an assessment of their material impact and relative likelihood of occurrence to all, or parts of the Group, and can be categorised as being either financial, commercial, reputational, ethical or regulatory risks.
The Risk Committee is a sub-committee of, and is accountable to, the Audit Committee which, along with Internal Audit, provides oversight to help ensure that there is a system of suitable internal controls in place to mitigate the impact and likelihood of each principal risk factor.
Policies and procedures have been implemented to assist with risk management.
These are designed to help ensure a level of compliance across the Group, to support the identification of any new risks, and to enhance the Groups ability to respond effectively to risks, if they crystallise.
Each principal risk factor is assigned to an appropriate member of the Risk Committee, who is accountable to the Risk Committee for that risk.
The principal risk factors are managed either at an operational level, Group level, or a combination of both.
This section describes the principal risk factors that the Directors believe could materially affect the Group, but this is not an exhaustive list as other risks may arise or existing risks may materially increase in the future.
These are listed in no order of priority, and beneath the description on each risk is a note of the main mitigating factors or actions which the Group takes.
The Groups businesses are affected by the economic conditions of the sectors Mitigation is achieved, where possible, and regions in which they and their customers operate and the markets in which through the Groups diversification of its the Group operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid change operations across vertical markets and geographies, which provides a broad The performance of the Group depends on the financial health and strength of its customer base.
The Group maintains a customers, which in turn is dependent on the economic conditions of the industries competitive advantage through ongoing and geographic regions in which they operate.
Traditionally, spending on parts of the investment in its products, reinforcing its Groups products has been cyclical due to companies spending significantly market leading position in many markets.
less in times of economic uncertainty.
The markets for the Groups products are highly competitive and in a state of ongoing and uncertain change.
If the Group is unable to successfully enhance and or develop its products in a timely fashion, the Groups revenue could be affected.
There are also low barriers to entry in relation to certain parts of the Groups businesses.
The Groups Academic Publishing divisions revenue can be adversely The Group is constantly developing its affected by changes in the purchasing behaviour of academic institutions product types and content range so that academic institutions consider that the Academic institutions fund purchases of Group products from budgets that may be Groups online and print based content sensitive to changes in private including endowments and governmental sources of is an important purchase even in times funding particularly in times of economic uncertainty and austerity.
Accordingly, any of economic uncertainty and austerity.
decreases in such budgets are likely to adversely affect the Groups results within its Additionally, the Group has developed its Academic Publishing division.
reach, and continues to expand its sales activities outside of the more established western territories to the faster developing markets, like Asia, where economic growth is currently stronger and new universities are being built.
The Groups continued growth depends, in part, on its ability to identify The Group has formal investment criteria and complete acquisitions and its ability to expand the business into new to identify suitable, earnings enhancing, geographic regions acquisition targets and employs experienced professionals to drive the acquisition process.
With new acquisitions there can be no assurances that the Group will achieve the Post acquisition integration plans are expected return on its investment, particularly as the success of any acquisition also prepared to ensure businesses are effectively depends in part on the Groups ability to integrate the acquired business or assets.
integrated into the Group and that planned Attractive acquisitions may be difficult to identify and complete for a number of synergies are realised.
reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and economic uncertainty.
These issues particularly relate to large acquisitions.
In expanding its business geographically, both organically and by acquisition, the Group reviews risks relevant to particular geographies and formulates appropriate mitigation strategies on a case-by-case basis.
INFORMA PLC 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Risk continued Mitigation continued 4.
Reliance on or loss of key customers may reduce demand for the Groups products To mitigate this risk, the Group continuously monitors changes in its In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have market places and regularly seeks feedback become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend is expected to from customers, adjusting its product continue.
For example, some governmental and regulatory agencies have increased offering in response where appropriate.
the amount of information they make publicly available at no cost.
Such sources may The Group also invests in its products and reduce demand for the Groups Publishing products.
In the Global Events division there are a number of exhibitions that individually contribute significantly to the profitability of their respective business units, because of the size of the events and the relatively high gross profit margins earned by them.
A major accident at an exhibition or event The risks are mitigated by the Groups Health and Safety policy which is considered and The Global Events division organises events that can be attended by large numbers of approved by the Board.
The divisional CEOs visitors on any given day, which results in operational health and safety risks including have the responsibility for ensuring the fire safety, structural collapse of a stand, food hygiene, crowd control, security and operational safety and compliance of their access and egress in an emergency.
Additionally, the Global Events division does not respective businesses.
The implementation normally own the venues it operates from, instead hiring floor space on a tenancy basis of the policies is the responsibility of local with the contractual agreement to comply with, and is dependent on the operators of management teams, with the Group Health the venues to have adequate safety policies in place, which comply with all regulations in and Safety Manager Events available to the local jurisdiction.
At its most severe, this could result in loss of life through accidents assist with the implementation.
The venues or incidents at an exhibition or event as well as major injuries and other significant loss.
used for our events are risk assessed against Due to the geographic reach of the Global Events division the Group is exposed to minimum Company criteria.
various jurisdictions with the applicable compliance requirements.
A programme of annual internal audits and governance reviews are carried out by our Internal Audit department: in 2013 these included visits to various events in different geographical regions and focused on the health and safety management of high risk events.
The Event Operations managers meet as a Group to discuss the health and safety issues and share best practice on an annual basis.
The Group HR Director reports on Health and Safety issues to the Risk Committee.
Significant operational disruption caused by a major disaster Business continuity plans have been implemented across the Group, including Major disasters, arising from either natural causes or man-made, have the potential disaster recovery programmes, and plans to significantly disrupt the operation of the business.
In particular, the success of to minimise business disruption.
The the Global Events division is dependent on bringing potentially large numbers of Group also has relevant insurance cover individuals to events, either as paying delegates or non-paying visitors to exhibitions.
Events that have the capacity to result in significant operational disruption to global travel include natural disasters, military conflict, political unrest, terrorist activity and industrial action.
Additionally, disasters can disrupt the Groups electronic platforms and distribution systems as outlined in point 8.
Inadequate crisis management To mitigate this risk, senior management communicate effectively within the The impact of any given event on the Group can potentially increase if the emerging organisation, constantly reviewing the situation is not managed appropriately or effectively.
In addition to the principal Groups responses to emerging issues.
risk factors documented in this section, other risk factors have the ability to cause However, by their nature, it is impossible significant damage to the Groups brand and reputation if effective management is to have a detailed crisis management plan not implemented to mitigate their impact.
Additionally, the speed and global coverage in place for all potential situations that of media can result in a perceived crisis being communicated rapidly, thus further could arise, and therefore the ultimate damaging the Groups brand and reputation.
mitigation is dependent on managements judgement, speed of reaction and quality of communication in a crisis situation.
The Group is dependent on the internet and its digital delivery platforms, The Group regularly invests in its IT networks and distribution systems capabilities including technical controls, robust backups of IT systems and The Groups businesses are increasingly dependent on digital platforms and development and testing of Disaster distribution systems, which primarily deliver the Groups products through the internet.
Recovery Plans to limit impact to business Any significant failure or interruption in availability of key systems, or the Groups operations as a result of dependency on critical IT infrastructure could thereby restrict the Groups ability to provide services IT systems.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risk Factors continued Risk continued Mitigation continued 9.
Breaches of the Groups Information security systems or other unauthorised The Group regularly invests in improving access to its sensitive information could adversely affect the Groups businesses information security to protect the and operations confidentiality, integrity and availability of its information assets against cyberattacks The Group has valuable information databases and as part of its business provides or misuse.
These efforts are led by a its customers and colleagues with access to these.
There are persons who may try to designated information security officer.
breach the Groups information security controls to compromise or gain unauthorised In the event of unauthorised access, access to its databases in order to misappropriate such information for potentially the Group would protect its intellectual fraudulent purposes or obtain competitive advantage.
This could damage the property IP as outlined in point 12.
Groups reputation and expose it to risks of loss, litigation and or regulatory action, as well as increase the likelihood of more extensive governmental and or regulatory supervision of these activities in a way that could adversely affect this aspect of the Groups business.
The Group relies on the experience and talent of its senior management and The Group offers compensation packages on its ability to recruit and retain key employees for the success of its business which are competitive based on current market information and thereby give it the The successful management and operations of the Group are reliant upon the best opportunity to recruit and retain people contributions of its senior management and other key personnel.
In addition, the of sufficient calibre.
The Group believes that Groups future success depends in part on its ability to continue to recruit, motivate its people are challenged in their day to day and retain highly experienced and qualified employees in the face of often intense work and obtain appropriate and relevant competition from other companies.
experience to develop further and prepare for progression within the organisation.
Changes in tax laws or their application or interpretation may adversely The Group employs an experienced impact the Group Head of Group Tax who keeps abreast of potential changes in tax legislation The Group operates in a large number of countries.
Accordingly, its earnings are across a range of jurisdictions, enabling subject to tax in many jurisdictions.
Relevant authorities may amend the substance the Group to react quickly to changes in or interpretation of tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses, in a manner that is the tax position of any of its companies adverse to the Group.
The Group is growing its business in emerging markets or businesses.
In emerging markets, where tax frameworks are not as well developed which increases this risk.
the Group works with established and reputable tax advisers in order to ensure it There can, therefore, be no assurance that the various levels of taxation to which the pays the correct amount of tax.
The Group Group is subject will not be increased or changed.
In addition, if any Group company is is also careful to ensure that profits arising found to be, or to have been, tax resident in any jurisdiction other than those in which in low tax jurisdictions are no more than the Group is currently deemed to be tax resident or to have a permanent establishment commensurate with the substance of the in any such jurisdiction, then that may have a material adverse effect on the amount of operation in those territories.
Finally, regardless of whether the Group has paid the correct amount of tax, there may be a public perception that the Group has not paid sufficient tax and that may have a reputational impact to the Group.
The Groups IP rights may not be adequately protected and may be The Group protects its rights by challenged by third parties consolidating and regularly monitoring its portfolio of trademark registrations, The Group relies on agreements with its customers as well as trademark, copyright implementing its brand protection strategy, and other IP laws to establish and protect the IP rights subsisting in its journals, books and increasing its digital rights protection.
However, these rights may be challenged, limited, invalidated or The Group supports these activities circumvented by third parties seeking to infringe or otherwise profit from the Groups through membership of organisations proprietary rights without its authorisation.
In addition, there is now a growing amount that defend IP rights globally.
of copyright legislation relating to digital content.
These laws remain under legislative review and there remains significant uncertainty as to the form copyright law may ultimately take.
Additionally, enforcement of IP rights is restricted in certain jurisdictions, and the global nature of the internet makes it impossible to control the ultimate destination of content produced by the Group.
The Group may also be the subject of claims for infringement of third party rights or party to claims to determine the scope and validity of the IP rights of others.
Litigation based on these claims is common amongst companies that utilise digital IP.
INFORMA PLC 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Risk continued Mitigation continued 13.
T he Group is subject to regulation regarding the use of personal data The Group seeks to monitor ongoing changes to data protection laws and The Group is required to comply with strict data protection and privacy legislation best practices across its main trading which restricts the Groups ability to collect and use personal information.
The Group is areas in order to ensure that appropriate exposed to the risk that this data could be wrongfully appropriated, lost or disclosed, protections and procedures are in place or processed in breach of data protection regulation, by or on behalf of the Group, in relation to the data held by or on behalf in which case the Group could face liability under data protection laws and or suffer of the Group.
This work is overseen by the reputational damage from the resulting lost goodwill of individuals such as customers Group General Counsel and an Information or employees.
Protection Steering Committee, a subcommittee of the Risk Committee.
The Group may be adversely affected by enforcement of and changes in The Group monitors legislative and legislation and regulation affecting its businesses and that of its customers regulatory changes and alters its business practices where appropriate.
Compliance with various laws and regulations does impose significant compliance costs and restrictions on the Group, with the risk of fines and or other sanctions for non-compliance.
In addition, such regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering authorities and changes in existing laws or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, could require the Group to incur additional costs in complying with those laws, or require changes to its strategy, operations or accounting and reporting systems.
In particular, laws and regulations relating to communications, data protection, e-commerce, direct marketing and digital advertising have become more prevalent and complex in recent years.
The Groups credit risk in respect of long-term receivables Mitigation is achieved through structured communication with the external parties, The Group has a small number of external loans which are repayable over the next close monitoring of financial and budgetary one to ten years.
The recoverability of the capital and interest payments is dependent performance, and delivery against project on the financial success of those external parties over the coming years.
In some instances capital and majority of the repayment terms are over a long period of time, the risk of unforeseen interest payments occur during the loan issues that could impact future repayments may increase.
term and so any failure to pay can be addressed at the time and remedial actions can be actioned.
The Risk Committee conducts credit risk assessments on a half-yearly basis to ensure the external receivables are correctly recorded in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Leadership and Management Succession Stephen Carter took over as Group Chief Executive at the beginning of 2014.
The Informa plc has benefited from effective continuous leadership for much of the last Board believes that the combination of 25 years.
The Board were conscious of this and the need for active management of his executive career, his perspective as a leadership change that would be provoked by the retirement of the long standing Chief Non-Executive Director of the Group, and Executive, Peter Rigby.
the induction and handover process that During the recruitment process for Peter Rigbys successor, the Board placed ran in conjunction with his predecessor, will a significant premium on recruiting and appointing an individual who would be serve to mitigate the management transition sufficiently understanding and appreciative of the Informa culture, and operating risks.
The Board nevertheless acknowledge model, but at the same time able to bring the necessary objectivity and refresh that that leadership and management success any business which has been led by the same management for 25 years, would rightly in these circumstances constitute a risk be required.
that may impact various aspects of the Group, including trading, market perception, organisational and operational structures.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 31
