Risk management IHG believes that an essential part of being a responsible business is having in place robust and effective risk management and internal controls.
This supports our business to be resilient, successful and trusted.
Risk management system takes place between risk owners and the Global Risk Management team to develop, execute and monitor detailed risk plans and IHG has an effective risk management system and internal strategies for key risk exposures.
controls which provide assurance to its shareholders.
These are well established and help IHG to protect against The Risk Working Group RWG provides a long-term, global and known and emerging risks and to cope with the unexpected.
strategic perspective to the risks faced by IHG.
Its mandate is to The Group develops the risk management system, strategies improve cross-functional working and effective risk management and controls as a result of continuous learning by management, of the highest priority and emerging risks affecting IHG.
The RWG which in turn drives the focus of the Major Risk Review and is chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary and Global Internal Audit programme.
Our internal controls and comprises the Heads of Global Risk Management, Global Strategy, risk management system aims to support the achievement of Programme Office and Global Internal Audit.
Major Risks are business objectives and protect our business, in particular: regularly discussed as part of Board, Executive Committee and senior leadership meetings.
In addition, the Major Risks are our brands, business model and reputation across collectively discussed at least twice annually atthe meetings of keystakeholders: the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and the Board.
the delivery of our strategy, commercial targets and plans Holistic approach to risk assessment forchange: and IHG conducts risk assessments to identify, prioritise and the safeguarding of physical assets, people, systems distinguish risks it wishes to take from those it must mitigate.
IHG thinks broadly about potential threats whether they are The risk environment that we operate in can be difficult to predict strategic, tacticalor operational in nature.
There are many risks that could impact the Strategic risks: these are risks arising from IHGs relationship with Groups brands and reputation and, therefore, IHG is giving particular the external environment and can impact on IHGs ambition and emphasis to developing its reputation risk management capability strategy over the long term.
Strategicrisks are a key feature of the and strengthening its culture of doing business responsibly.
Board and Executive Committee agendas, regional and functional The key features of IHGs risk management system are: strategy setting and are considered during decision-making on strategic issues such as the selection of future growth markets, embedded risk management processes to consistently the selection of strategic business partners and decisions identify and manage key risks to the business: pertaining to potential new initiatives.
a holistic approach to risk assessment applied through Tactical risks: these are risks that could impact the delivery of Strategic, Tactical and Operational risk perspectives: IHGs one to three-year targets including implementation of risk strategies, controls and outcomes that support the projects.
These include factors influencing IHGs ability to sign and business and reduce unnecessary risk exposure: and open new hotels, the performance of existing hotels and delivery of a proactive risk and crisis management culture, projects.
These are managed bysenior operators and overseen by through leadershipand training.
In addition, project risks are Embedded risk management processes managed by project management teams and business sponsors IHG has a Major Risk Review process in place to identify, with oversight provided by the Programme Office.
manage, monitor and report the principal risks and uncertainties Operational risks: these include a wide spectrum of day-to-day affecting the Group the Major Risks.
TheBoard has ultimate risks that front-line hotel colleagues and corporate teams face responsibility for the Groups strategy and risk management as when dealing with guests or ensuring corporate systems and explained on page 70 and the Audit Committee annually reviews processes are running smoothly.
A critical aspect of this is the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and managing the safety and security of our people and assets and risk management.
In addition, theExecutive Committee as a whole the continuity of the business.
For some parts of the business, is accountable for managing risks and as such all Major Risks have operational risks also include managing third-party service named Executive Committeemembers who ensure that effective providers and the wider supply chain.
Due to the nature of risk mitigation and control strategies are in place.
operational risks, IHG typically mitigates these through internal Underpinning the Groups Major Risk Review process, each of controls, operational and business processes, systems and tools.
the regions and functions have their own risk profiles which are Oversight roles exist through the management line, the Regional updated biannually in line with the activities of the strategic Operating Committees and functional leadership teams.
During the interim periods, continuous dialogue 34 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION k s l i e R t o e External recognition IHGs Risk Management team working in conjunction with Oxford Brookes University wasawarded the 2013 Best Partnership of the Year at the Institute of Risk Management Global Risk Awards.
Our risk management training programmes were awarded Gold Award for the Best e-Learning Widespread Adoption at the 2013 LearnX Impact Awards.
Risk actions and outcomes Proactive risk and crisis management culture Fundamental to IHGs approach to risk management is that it IHG believes the value of risk management is realised through is action-oriented and yields tangible outcomes in the business, a proactive risk management culture and capability.
To this end, thereby reducing risk exposures.
There are numerous risk IHGhas developed numerous support and guidance materials, management programmes and activities that achieve this, implementation toolkits, training and control systems and made these including our hotel safety and security action plans, business available to all hotel and corporate colleagues in various languages continuity plans and crisis management programmes.
in order to build our risk management maturity and culture.
Indeveloping our plans and programmes, we considered both our first-hand experience in managing events at our hotels, such as natural catastrophes and civil unrest and other possibilities which may impact IHGs central operations, brands and reputation.
We have also linked our crisis management programme with the IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme explained on page 32.
Ensuring health, safety and security Providing and supporting a safe and secure environment Crisis & Security for our guests, employees and those working at or otherwise Incident visiting our hotels and corporate offices is paramount, and therefore IHG applies high standards of health and safety Fire Leisure Safety Safety across the Group.
We ensure the protection and wellbeing of those working for IHG through suitable work-based strategies: minimise the risk of injury from work activity: ensure that Guest Food sufficient information and systems are in place to address health Safety Safety and safety concerns: and involve employees in the continuous Staff Safety improvement, reporting and review of health and safety matters.
We have established a set of policies, procedures and measures and require all to comply with relevant legislation.
Risk Policy & Prole Standards Hotel health, safety and security Recognising the importance of operating safe hotels, our Review & Ways of commitment to safety, security and crisis management in hotels is Report Working a fundamental part of being a responsible business.
We therefore require hotels to comply with aset of global Brand Safety Standards.
Risk Training & We also support hotel owners, General Managers and hotel Financing Comms employees to manage risk effectively by giving them a systematic Operate approach and framework to follow and providing them with & Control user-friendly tools and training.
Where appropriate, IHGs risk management training is accredited by relevant recognised bodies such as the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.
We have developed a Safe Hotel Manage Risk framework Hotels are assessed by various methods, including self-assessment, depicted on the right, which enables a consistent approach to guest satisfaction surveys, design and engineering plans, incidents, managing safety and security risk in IHG hotels.
It comprises intelligence gathering, quality audits and risk management reviews.
two mechanical cogs meshed together, showing different types Hotel management teams discuss issuesat monthly safety of safety and security risks in the Safe Hotel cog meshed against meetings and develop action plans.
Risks are prioritised, the actions described in the Manage Risk cog.
This framework responsibilities assigned and improvement actions identified, is actively promoted by IHGs risk managers around the world, progressed and monitored.
Action plans are reviewed as necessary working with hotels and their management teams in order to by appropriate people to escalate and drive action or develop keep IHG hotels safe and secure.
Strategic Report 35 H g a e f n a a S M Risk management continued Managing risks in a changing environment We continue to experience a dynamic external risk environment with changes in political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental risks.
However, we do see the global macroeconomic conditions improving.
We see the Groups business model, diversity of brand portfolio and wide geographical spread contributing to our resilience to events that could affect specific hotels, local areas or all but the most significant countries.
The table below sets out the principal risks and uncertainties the Major Risks in the context of delivering against our strategy for high-quality growth as described on pages 18 to 33.
These are perceived as the most dynamic risks and are therefore proactively managed and monitored by senior management.
These complement the wider comprehensive risk factors set out on pages 164 to 167.
Risk description Control and mitigation activities Preferred brands IHG has a complementary and differentiated portfolio of nine brands see page 17, each of Having a portfolio of preferred brands which is designed to meet a wide demographic of guests and differing guest occasions and with a clear, distinct brand proposition needs through distinct brand propositions see page 29. delivering a consistent guest experience, IHG continues to review and refresh both its brands and brand standards, giving particular regardless of our predominantly managed consideration to the optimisation of global requirements while retaining local distinctiveness.
and franchised business model and a IHG has built awareness and loyalty, particularly across our priority markets, through a blend global presence aimed at meeting the of global and local marketing promotions, sponsorships and brand initiatives.
changing needs of our guests, is crucial In 2013, IHG relaunched its loyalty programme to IHG Rewards Club to clearly communicate to to creating brand preference, loyalty and consumers that all of our brands are part of the same IHG brand family and to therefore advocacy.
Failure to achieve this could encourage guest loyalty and cross-sell opportunities.
impact on IHGs competitive position and its reputation with owners, investors IHG manages brand consistency through the entire hotel life cycle commencing with andguests.
development through to due diligence and deal approval processes, which help us select appropriate sites and owners.
This is supported by clear contractual terms, new hotel opening processes, brand standard requirements and quality compliance processes.
We also provide central support tools, training and guidance to assist those working at our hotels and owners to enable them to deliver brand consistency and thereby support the success of the hotel.
However, to maintain high-quality growth in the IHG System, IHG may be required to exit non-compliant hotels.
People, talent and culture IHG has in place a comprehensive global people strategy to ensure we are able to find and IHG must recruit and retain the right retain the right people to deliver our preferred brands at our hotels and corporate offices and people, give them the tools, guidance and we continually review the tools, systems and guidance we offer them.
support to be successful and to influence We are constantly evolving our recruitment strategies.
We have in place different strategies for behaviour and culture in order to deliver different markets to ensure we have the most appropriate and effective methods and channels a preferred brand promise.
High growth for talent attraction and recruitment.
The IHG Academy also assists us with recruiting for our and emerging markets are a particular talent pipeline.
challenge, and ensuring we have the right IHG proactively manages succession planning and has formal programmes in place to help its leadership is crucial.
Failure to manage our people grow their careers.
Incentive plans for senior leaders are aligned to IHGs strategy to people, talent and culture could impact on ensure longer-term growth.
our service delivery, financial performance and longer-term growth.
Channel management and technology IHG recognises that technological advances and changing guest expectations mean that we platforms must continually invest in and improve our systems and reservations channels.
We have in Travellers now have access to far more place a multi-channel management strategy that focuses across the entire guest journey and information through comparison websites, encourages guests to book directly through IHGs channels and reservation systems.
search engines and online travel agents.
Recognising the growing trend amongst some travellers to book through online travel Booking channels and technological agencies and intermediaries in search of better value, IHG proactively manages and seeks to systems are a key part of the guest improve terms and conditions of our relationships with these partners and continues to support journey and an important value driver roomkey.
com, a meta-search website launched in 2012 in partnership with other hotel for our owners.
This is also an area companies.
These activities compliment our wide programmes and activities to encourage where there is rapid change in terms guests to book direct.
of technology, guest expectations and IHGs Global Technology function works collaboratively with specialist third-party technology relationships with online travel agents partners to continuously monitor, manage and optimise our systems and channels, including and other intermediaries.
their resilience through backup systems and business continuity practices, to enhance all aspects of the guest journey.
Threats to information security, from Operating in nearly 100 countries and territories, IHG takes information security very seriously payment card information to other and has applied risk-based methods to build capability and resilience into our systems and information held in IT systems or, in paper processes.
The Group manages data security to contain the risk and reduce the Groups format and other media, remain of concern.
exposure, tightly controlling sensitive data through limited and monitored access.
Failure to effectively manage and keep IHG continues to aim to be fully compliant with Payment Card Industry Data Security under review our channels, information Standards PCI-DSS using tools and services from a leading specialist third-party provider technology infrastructure and with respect to payment card processing.
technological systems to optimise performance and resilience could impact on the Groups revenue and delivery channels, guest experience, return for our owners and investors and the Groups future performance.
36 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Risk description Control and mitigation activities Owner proposition To ensure that IHG is continually considering its owners, the IHG Owners Association is As a result of IHGs predominantly the primary channel through which IHG engages with them.
In addition, regional teams franchised and managed business model, build relationships with owners through a variety of methods, including formal and managing relationships with our existing, informal communications and owner conferences.
By agreeing a set of priorities together, new and potential owners is important.
and continually reviewing and updating our central support tools and systems, including General trading conditions and the revenue management tools, we aim to offer a compelling owner proposition.
economic outlook also affect the The use of the System Fund described on page 16 is also managed by IHG for the benefit availability of capital to current and of all our hotels with the objective of driving revenue for them.
The use of this fund is potential owners.
Failure to manage reviewed annually in collaboration with the IHG Owners Association.
relationships and the macroeconomic IHGs scale, diverse portfolio of brands, segments, countries of operation and mix in business outlook may have an impact on the model positions it well from short-term macroeconomic impacts and we continue to monitor existing IHG System, our operations and macroeconomic conditions and make necessary adjustments, including cost optimisation our developmentpipeline.
However, we recognise that macroeconomic issues can impact upon potential and existing owners and we therefore continue to review our business model and the owner proposition in light of these.
Reputation and brand protection Responsible business underpins our strategy, by being an essential part of Disciplined IHG recognises the importance of its Execution.
Our Business Reputation and Responsibility function comprises a team brands and reputation as important assets of lawyers, brand standard compliance managers, chartered secretaries, corporate for the business.
Protecting them requires responsibility specialists, risk managers and internal auditors who work together to IHG, all those working in our hotels and champion and protect the trusted reputation of IHG and its brands, including brand and corporate offices, owners and business intellectual property protection.
IHG aims to embed a responsible business culture throughout the organisation, leveraging our Winning Ways see page 21 to encourage those working at IHG to promote and protect our Failure to safeguard the reputation of IHG trusted reputation.
To assist with this, we have in place various internal programmes, policies and its brands could have severe impacts and training, including our Code of Conduct.
on the Groups future performance.
IHGs proactive risk-based approach to hotel safety and security summarised on page 35 aims to ensure guest and employee safety and the security of hotels and office buildings.
There is also a constant need to protect IHG has also put in place a crisis management programme to ensure our hotels and corporate the safety and security of our guests, offices are prepared for unexpected or unknown events.
