34 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES We operate in a business environment in which a number of risks and uncertainties exist.
While it is not possible to eliminate these completely, the established risk-management and internal control procedures, which are regularly reviewed by the Group Risk Committee on behalf of the Board, are designed to manage their effects and thus contribute to the creation of value for the Groups shareholders as we pursue our business objectives.
The Group continues to be dependent on effective maintenance of its systems and controls.
Over and above that, the principal risks and uncertainties which the Group addresses through its risk-management measures are detailed below.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation and monitoring Among the changes which could affect our business are: We seek to mitigate these risks by fostering longBusiness, term relationships with our clients and partners, our economic changes in our competitors behaviour: predominantly governmental quasi-governmental and political medium-to-long-term revenue streams, the the imposition of unusually onerous contract environment development of additional capabilities to meet conditions by major clients: anticipated demand in new growth areas of public shifts in the economic climate both in the UK service delivery, careful supply chain management and internationally: and by operating in various regions of the world, including the Middle East, where we are able to a deterioration in the profile of our transfer resources to maximum effect between the counterparty risk: differing economies of that region.
alterations in the UK governments policy with We also have in place significant committed financing regard to expenditure on improving public with long maturity dates.
infrastructure, buildings, services and modes of service delivery: We constantly monitor market conditions and delays in or cancellation of the procurement of assess our capabilities in comparison to those of government-related projects: and our competitors.
Whether we win, lose or retain a contract we analyse the reasons for our success or civil unrest and or shifts in the political climate in shortcomings and feed the information back at both some of the regions in which we operate tactical and strategic levels.
We also constantly monitor our cost base and take action to ensure it is any one or more of which might result in a failure to suitable given the prevailing market environment.
win new or sufficiently profitable contracts in our chosen markets or to complete those contracts with We have also set ourselves the goals of delivering sufficient profitability.
sustainability solutions to our clients, ensuring that we and our suppliers uphold the highest standards in equality, diversity, human rights and ethics, playing an active role in the communities in which we operate and placing sustainability at the heart of our business.
As we focus on large-volume relationships with Among our mitigation strategies are targeting Major certain major clients for a significant part of work within, or complementary to, our existing contracts our revenue, termination of one or more of the competencies, the fostering of long-term associated contracts would be likely to reduce our relationships with clients, operating an authority revenue and profit.
In addition, the management matrix for the approval of large bids, monthly of such contracts entails potential risks including management reporting with key performance mis-pricing, inaccurate specification, failure to indicators at contract and business level, the appreciate risks being taken on, poor control of costs use of monthly cost-value reconciliation, supply or of service delivery, sub-contractor insolvency and chain management and ensuring that periodic failure to recover, in part or in full, payments due for benchmarking and or market testing are included in work undertaken.
long-term contracts and PFI PPP contracts.
In PFI PPP contracts, which can last for periods of around 30 years, there may be increases in costs, including wage inflation, beyond those anticipated.
We enjoy demonstrable success in working with third We have a proven track record of developing and Operating parties both through joint ventures and associated re-enforcing such relationships in a mutually beneficial system companies in the UK and abroad.
This success results way over a long period of time and our experience of in a material proportion of our profits and cash flow this places us well to preserve existing relationships being generated from businesses in which we do not and create new ones as part of our business model.
Any weakening of our strong measures taken to limit risk in this area include: board relationships with these business partners could have representation, shareholders agreements, management an effect on our profits and cash flow.
secondments, local borrowings and rights of audit in addition to investing time in personal relationships.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES 35 Risk Potential impact Mitigation and monitoring The success of our business is dependent on We have a Group-wide leadership programme Key people recruiting, retaining, developing, motivating and designed to support the strategic aims of the communicating with appropriately skilled, competent Company.
We have various incentive schemes and people of integrity at all levels of the organisation.
run a broad range of training courses for people at all stages in their careers.
With active human resources management and Investors in People accreditation in many parts of the Group, we manage our people professionally and encourage them to develop and fulfil their maximum potential with the Group.
We have also set ourselves the goals of inspiring the next generation of professionals, measuring and recognising the value of people, society and the environment.
The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group A commitment to safety forms part of our mission Health involves exposure to health and safety risks for both statement and the subject leads every Board meeting and safety employees and third parties.
Management of these both at Group and divisional level.
Each member of regime risks is critical to the success of the business and is the Executive Board undertakes dedicated visits to implemented through the adoption and maintenance look at health and safety measures in place at our of rigorous operational and occupational health and operational sites and we have ongoing campaigns safety procedures.
across the Group emphasising its importance.
We are subject to certain financial risks which are We have policies in place to monitor the effective Financial discussed in the Financial Review on pages 44 to 51. management of working capital, including the risks production of daily balances, weekly cash In particular, we carry out major projects which from reports and forecasts together with monthly time to time require substantial amounts of cash management reporting.
to finance working capital, capital expenditure and investment in PFI projects.
Failure to manage working capital appropriately could result in us being unable to meet our trading requirements and ultimately to defaulting on our banking covenants.
Issues arising within contracts, from the Control procedures and checks governing the operation Damage to management of our businesses or from the of our contracts and of our businesses are supported reputation behaviour of our employees at all levels can have by business continuity plans and arrangements broader repercussions on the Groups reputation for managing the communication of issues to our than simply their direct impact, especially where stakeholders, supported by our values.
we are delivering front-line services to the public We have also set ourselves the goals of creating a and may have an adverse impact upon the Groups culture of innovation in sustainability and offering licence to operate.
transparency to clients on public-sector projects.
Adverse weather events, travel disruption, longWe have in place business continuity plans for our Climate term climate shifts, water stress and sea-level rises own businesses and work closely with our clients in change leading to a failure to be able to provide services and respect of their business continuity arrangements.
We have set ourselves the goals of being responsible for zero net loss in biodiversity, procuring products and services beyond best practice in environmental and social standards, becoming a water positive business, halving our absolute carbon emissions and those from our supply chain, helping our clients to increase their energy security, caring for the natural resources we use including treating waste as a resource and building resilience to environmental change in everything we do.
The Group continues to have no material exposure to currency risks or volatility in commodity prices.
The Groups principal businesses operate in countries which we regard as politically stable.
