Business Review Risks and Uncertainties The Board has approved the acceptance of Introduction to our approach certain risks which are considered appropriate andappetite for risk to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The effective understanding, acceptance and The degree of risk to be accepted within the management of risk is fundamental to the business is managed on a day-to-day basis long-term success of Invensys.
Every single through the Board Delegated Authority levels.
employee has a role to play in this process These provide the framework for informed risk andthe Invensys Risk Management Policy taking within the businesses and the route for recognises that success relies on the ability escalating decision making up to the Board.
towork together cohesively to address this.
Key developments The consistent application of the Invensys Code of Conduct see page 32 is a key Our risk management approach is subject control in maintaining the strong reputation tocontinuous review and updating to take ofthe Group with regard to customers, account of new and developing issues which regulatory bodies and employees.
might impact our business objectives.
The following signi cant developments should Our businesses have developed specialist benoted: knowledge in products, services, processes and regions which allows us to understand The business continues to make progress theassociated risks and accept them in an against a challenging global backdrop: informed way.
Our approach is encapsulated The sale of Invensys Rail has allowed us to in the key principles of our Risk Management address certain risks and offers additional Policy: opportunities: W e have addressed the fide cit on the UK To understand the nature and extent of risks Pension Scheme and created a reservoir facing the Group: trust to pay future contributions if required: To accept and manage within the business Th e del ayering of the management those risks which our employees have the structure following the sale of Invensys Rail skills and expertise to understand and provides the opportunity for restructuring leverage: ef ciencies: and To assess and transfer or avoid those risks T he transaction has provided signi cant which are beyond our appetite for risk: and cash which is available to grow and By consideration of materiality to establish develop the business, both organically the authority levels within Invensys at which and through acquisitions.
decisions on acceptance and mitigation of these risks are taken.
Risks associated with our restructuring and acquisition strategy have been assessed and Operating businesses and key functional appropriate mitigating actions implemented.
departments are required to undertake a formal review of risks.
The resulting risk registers are maintained and reviewed on a monthly basis.
These are consolidated and reviewed by the Head of Risk and, on a quarterly basis, a summary of the Groups key risks is then presented to the Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board through the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the Group.
It also monitors the mitigating actions put in place by the relevant operational managers to address the identi ed risks.
Membership of the Risk Committee is set out on page 44.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 33 Risks and Uncertainties continued The risk management process is outlined below: Risk management process Invensys plc Board Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive directors Group crisis management team Enterprise-wide risk management Monitoring : Control : Function input Identi cation Analysis Evaluation Mitigation Invensys worldwide business operations 34 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Review Principal risks Responsibilities and actions Invensys operates globally in varied markets Board Risk Committee and is affected by a number of risks inherent Responsibility for determining the nature and Formulates strategy and policy based inits activities, not all of which are within its extent of the signi cant risks it is willing to take onriskappetite and risk exposure.
Some of these risks and uncertainties in achieving the strategic objectives.
This risk Develops risk framework, receives reports are common to other companies, for example: appetite is largely promulgated across the fromthe business operations, reviews risk changes in economic conditions including the Group through the Board Delegated Authorities.
management structures and oversight impact of austerity measures and currency Ultimate responsibility for the system of internal oftheGroup risk register.
and interest rate uctuations: changes in control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Prepares reports and recommendations taxation legislation: the cost of materials: the Approval of the formal review of the risk fortheBoard through the Audit Committee.
recruitment and retention of skilled personnel: management framework and underlying Monitors and coordinates actions to address processes which take account of changes key risks.
the impact of competition: political stability in tothe UK Corporate Governance Code.
the countries where we operate or undertake Consideration of the key risks and their Business operations contracts: and  risks.
disclosure in the annual report and accounts.
Consider existing short-term and long-term risk.
Some of these common risks and Approval of Group strategy and key risks Consider potential low-frequency, uncertainties are subject to signi cant change, thereto.
the impact of which may be dif cult to predict.
Consider new and emerging risks.
Audit Committee Establish priorities, processes and Invensys has undertaken a review of certain Receives regular reports on the results of accountabilities to address and manage risk.
This is shown on pages 39 internal and external audits.
Regularly prepare and update the risk registers.
and40 and uses the Groups revenue by Conducts annual assessment of the Groups Develop and implement the business continuity destination for continuing operations as system of risk management and internal control.
aproxy for the relative level of exposure Reviews risk management activities and ineach case.
The principal risks which are speci c to and may impact the Group are outlined on pages 36 to 38.
In addition, there may be other risks Risk review process and uncertainties which are unknown to the Identi cation Mitigation Group or which could become material in the Risks are recorded in the risk registers, their Actions are identi ed to minimise, manage future.
These risks may cause the Groups likelihood and impact assessed, risk owners are orrespond to the risks.
results to vary materially from historic and identi ed and mitigation strategies established.
Risks are considered against appropriate Monitoring and control categories including: strategic, people, financial, Risk action plans are reviewed by the business operational, reputational, legal, environmental operations at least quarterly.
Serious emerging issues are noti ed immediately to the Group crisis Analysis managementteam.
Risks are analysed for likelihood and impact to Risks are reviewed at each Risk Committee determine the level of exposure.
The Audit Committee and the Board review Evaluation riskon a regular basis.
Risks are reviewed and prioritised against the potential impact on achievement of short-term The Invensys approach is consistent with and long-term business objectives.
ISO31000, the international risk management standard, and has been subject to external review and updating to take account of developing risk governance practices.
com 35 Risks and Uncertainties continued Description of risk Impact Failure to maintain a competitive and technologically advanced product Failure to keep pace with technological changes range could reduce margins and revenue growth and system or application requirements in the industrial sectors may result in loss of market Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Groups shareand lower margins.
Furthermore, delays to products and services are characterised by continually evolving industry development programmes may adversely impact standards and rapidly changing technology, driven by the demands of the the delivery of major projects.
As an illustration of this, our Software business segment continues to invest in industrial software applications to Mitigation optimise plant performance for our global customers.
The Group invests in research and development to create new technologies and products to sustain or improve its competitive position.
However, all new technologies and products involve business risk in terms of possible abortive expenditure including asset impairments, reputational risk and customer claims.
The Group reviews its portfolio oftechnologies as part of the strategic planning process.
In addition, there is a regular review process to control individual development programmes.
Impact The timing and frequency of substantial contract awards are uneven The timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards may result in volatility in the order Our Industrial Automation business segment is associated with the book and operating performance.
Major projects supply of technology and consulting to the oil and gas, chemical and may also impact the pro tability where a nuclear industries.
Capital expenditure requirements from customers in substantial element of the contract may be these industries are often highly cyclical and linked to the international supplied by third parties.
In addition, the supply, demand and pricing of hydrocarbons.
Also the timing of new opportunity to develop control and safety systems contract awards in the nuclear industry may be impacted if certain for the nuclear industry may lead to an increased nuclear programmes are subject to delay or cancellation.
dependence on a small number of major customers for our Industrial Automation businesssegment.
Mitigation The Group monitors its order pipeline, sales activity, sales cover in its order book, expected margins and the impact of potential delays on the expected results to allow appropriate mitigating actions to be considered.
36 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Review Description of risk Impact Undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the Group to risk of loss The Groups failure to anticipate technical and development problems, estimate costs, control A signi cant amount of the Groups business involves long-term projects delivery or receive timely payments may reduce that can take many months or even years to complete.
These projects the pro tability of such a contract and impact may be subject to delays and cost overruns due to delays in technology cashcollection.
development, equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials Mitigation orskilled labour or other unforeseen problems inherent in the nature The Group has an established process with clear ofsuch projects.
delegated authorities for the approval of major contracts, which includes a review system for theapproval of bids submitted to customers.
Contracts with a large monetary value or non-standard contractual terms require Board approval.
Execution of major projects is subject toregular reporting to the Board.
Impact The Group may be subject to financial loss and or damage to its These occurrences could result in claims, loss reputation as a result of product liability claims ofrevenue, warranty costs, costs and damages associated with product recalls, litigation, delays Errors and defects in the Groups products, systems or applications, inmarket acceptance or harm to the Groups which may be used in safety-critical applications, could cause injury reputation for safety and quality.
topersons or damage to property and equipment or be the subject ofproduct recalls.
Mitigation Each business segment has an established qualitycontrol function and, if an event occurs, there are processes to investigate and manage theoccurrence.
Impact The Group may be exposed to liability through the actions of co-source Given the nature of the Groups business mix, a partners or its supply chain quality or other failure in the supply chain could present a risk to safety and delivery which might On occasions the business activities of the Group are conducted with have a material adverse effect on the Groups co-source partners whose day-to-day management actions are outside business, financial performance and or reputation.
A signi cant element of the Groups risk pro le There is also a risk that regulatory non-compliance is the delivery performance of its supply chain.
These partnerships exist of partners could have a material adverse effect on across our businesses.
Mitigation Assessment, mitigation and management of these risks are addressed by the business segments in conjunction with our legal and risk departments.
In-depth due diligence on partners is undertaken where considered appropriate, and crossindemnities entered into to mitigate liability.
com 37 Risks and Uncertainties continued Description of risk Impact The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities with respect to its UK With respect to both of the Groups major pension and US pension plans plans for its UK and US operations, any material decline in the equity market, improvement in life The Group has a large level of gross liabilities in respect of its major expectancy, change in expected morbidity pension plans relative to its market capitalisation.
rates, long periods of low in ation or fide ation, orfuture decreases in interest rates could require additional funding contributions in excess of those currently expected.
Mitigation The Invensys Pension Scheme UK has a high proportion of pensioners relative to its active workforce which provides a level of certainty withrespect to the valuation of the plans liabilities.
Inaddition, its investment policy has been established to address the need to match the planassets and liabilities as far as is realistically possible.
On completion of the sale of Invensys Rail there was a 400 million contribution into theScheme and the creation of a 225 million reservoir trust for the bene t of the plan.
It is anticipated that no further contributions will be payable into the Scheme for the foreseeable future.
The Group will continue to monitor the performance of the principal UK and US plans.
Impact The Group is subject to ongoing litigation and environmental liabilities All of these liabilities are subject to a number of uncertainties, assumptions and contingencies, As a consequence of the past disposal of a signi cant number of and there can be no assurance that the liabilities businesses, the Group has, or may incur, certain liabilities in relation to will not be substantially higher or become payable environmental claims including the cost associated with the remediation sooner than anticipated, or that the provisions in of contaminated sites no longer owned by the Group, litigation including the Groups accounts in respect of any such personal injury claims arising from alleged exposure to asbestos and liabilities will be suf cient.
silica, indemnity claims and other disposal costs relating to the disposed businesses.
These risks have receded over time as warranties and Mitigation indemnities in relation to past disposals have expired, existing disputes The Group continually monitors the remaining liabilities and has established performance have been settled and remediation work on contaminated sites has been indicators to support and facilitate this.
The Group also has environmental liabilities in relation to the indicators include cash spend, provisions, remediation of vacant sites which it owns.
insurance recoveries and estimated exposures.
The Group has recently carried out a detailed review of the related provisions and will continue tomonitor the level of provisions going forward.
Innegotiations it aims to limit the risk of future liabilities or disputes.
Impact The Group is exposed to cyber risks These events could result in claims, loss of revenue, warranty costs, costs and damages In common with other entities, the Group is exposed to risk of business associated with product recalls, litigation, delays disruption and intellectual property loss associated with adverse cyber inmarket acceptance or harm to the Groups incidents.
Invensys provides products, services and solutions for reputation for safety and quality.
industrial control systems responsible for monitoring and controlling avariety of processes and operations including gas and electricity Mitigation distribution, water treatment and oil re ning.
These control systems may The Group has established quality and security be susceptible to disruption through cyber events and the Group may incur processes to address this.
liabilities as a result of such events.
38 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Review Country risks Description of risk Financial risk Financial risk exposure % The global economy has continued to experience a sovereign debt crisis with Extreme 0.2 particular concern within the Eurozone.
Invensys maintains oversight of its High 1.9 Medium 0.8 exposures by analysing the revenue by destination for all territories against 1 Low 15.3 published risk rating categories.
This is summarised in the adjacent chart.
Insignicant 81.8 Mitigation Key financial risks including liquidity needs, partner supply chain exposure and cash management have been identi ed.
Measures have been taken to minimise exposures and crisis management plans have been established to respond to developing scenarios.
Political stability risk Political stability risk exposure % Political risk considers the likelihood of state or political in uences negatively Extreme 0.0 High 2.8 affecting business operations in a country through regime instability or direct Medium 13.8 indirect interference.
The adjacent chart illustrates the Invensys exposure using 2 Low 81.6 the country ratings as published by Control Risks Group.
Insignicant 1.8 Mitigation Invensys analyses current and developing issues and maintains crisis management plans designed to respond to threats and safeguard the business operations.
Security risk Security risk exposure % Security risk considers the likelihood of state or non-state engagement in actions Extreme 0.0 that harm the financial, physical and human assets of a company and the extent to High 5.8 Medium 22.1 which the state is willing and able to protect those assets.
The adjacent chart Low 71.3 illustrates Invensys exposure using the security country risk ratings published by Insignicant 0.8 2 Control Risks Group.
Mitigation Invensys analyses current and developing issues and maintains crisis management plans designed to safeguard people, assets and the business.
Corruption risk anti-bribery compliance Corruption risk exposure % 3 The Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International ranks Highly corrupt 0-2 score 0.5 countries according to their perceived levels of public sector corruption.
A score 2-4 score 16.4 of10 is considered very clean and a score of zero is highly corrupt.
Invensys has 4-6 score 30.4 considered its revenue by destination against this index for all territories and this 6-8 score 44.5 isshown on the adjacent chart.
8-10 score 8.2 Very clean Mitigation Invensys has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and maintains a programme of communication and education for employees and partners.
Particular focus is appropriate in higher-risk territories to ensure that Group policy is understood and enforced.
1 Financial risk rating categories are based on the Sovereign Rating Lists for Government Bonds using information freely available from Moodys at www.
com 2 Political stability risk and security risk categories are as published by Control Risks Group at www.
com 3 Adapted from Corruption Perception Index Methodology Copyright 2012 Transparency International: the global coalition against corruption.
For more information visit http: www.
org Ratings are based on information available on 31 March 2013.
com 39 Risks and Uncertainties continued As detailed on the previous page, Invensys Country risks has undertaken a review of the following Invensys is a global organisation with its own country risks in respect of those territories facilities, supply chain and customers in many where we generate revenue: countries across the world.
There are diverse Financial risk utilising the rating categories country risks to address in certain core published by credit agency Moodys: markets, including financial risks relating to Political stability risk utilising the risk theEurozone crisis, and risks in developing categories published by Control Risks markets, including Asia Paci c, South America Group: and the Middle East.
Security risk utilising the risk categories published by Control Risks Group: and Corruption risk utilising the risk ratings published by Transparency International.
Revenue by destination for continuing operations has been analysed and categorised in accordance with rating criteria obtained from appropriate external sources.
The charts on the previous page illustrate the pro le of country risk for the Groups revenue by destination and outline the broad mitigation actions in place to address these.
David Thomas Chief Financial Of cer 40 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Governance 42 Our Board of Directors 44 Corporate Governance 51 Nominating Committee Report 53 Audit Committee Report 57 Remuneration Report 73 Directors Report 76 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect ofthePreparation of the Accounts Compliance The Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 56 has been prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 the Code.
TheCorporate Governance Report, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 72, describes how the main principles set out in the Code have been applied.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules is shown in the Directors Report on pages 73 and 74 and is incorporated into the Corporate Governance Report byreference.
A printed copy of the Code can be obtained free ofcharge from FRC publications by telephone 44 0 20 8247 1264, email cch@wolterskluwer.
com The Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 72 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Ernst & Young LLP has audited the contents of the Remuneration Report to the extent required by the Companies Act the tabular information on pages 69 to 72 relating to directors remuneration and directors interests in shares and all share incentive plans.
The Board has also considered in advance of the commencement date, the revised UK Corporate Our Drayton, Eberle and Robertshaw brands Governance Code the 2012 Code and, where ofenergy controls include room thermostats, appropriate, disclosures have been included to show how the principles and provisions of the 2012 Code time controls, thermostatic radiator valves and willbe applied.
under-floor heating controls, predominantly for use in homes.
