Strategic report RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group identifies and monitors the key risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and runs the business in a way that minimises the impact of such risks where possible.
The risk profile of the Group is deemed to be unchanged in the year.
Operational risks Potential impact Mitigation Political uncertainty and The Groups business is principally carried out ITE has reduced the risk by establishing its regulatory risk in Russia, the CIS, Turkey and Asia.
Changes in businesses as independent Russian, CIS, Turkish law or the regulatory environment could have and Asian companies fully contributing to the an effect on some or all of the exhibitions of local economy, and the diversity of businesses theGroup.
across sectors and geography provides protection for the longerterm prospects oftheGroup.
Economic instability Reduced demand for exhibition space would ITE operates across a wide range of sectors reduces demand for reduce the profits of exhibitions.
andcountries to minimise the exposure to any exhibition space single market.
ITE, through its relationships with venues and staff has a relatively flexible cost structure, allowing it to manage its event margins in the short and medium term.
This wasclearly evidenced during the Groups performance during the recent recession.
Commercial relationships The Group has key commercial relationships These key relationships are regularly reviewed and the Group seeks to maintain its exhibition with venues which secure the Groups rights torun its exhibitions in the future.
rights for up to at least three years forward for significant exhibitions where possible.
venue availability Damage to or unavailability of a particular The Group carries business interruption venue could impact the Groups shortterm insurance policies which protect profits on its trading position.
largest events covering annual revenue of circa 120 million against such an event in the short term.
In the longerterm the Group seeks to maintain good relationships with its principal venues to ensure the continuance of availability.
Competitor risk Competition has existed in ITEs markets for In all of its overseas markets, ITE has a strong position as an international organiser, achieved some years.
ITE faces competitive pressures ona marketbymarket basis.
through effective use of its international sales network and its established brands for major events.
A single exhibition or sector in a market could have its prospects curtailed by a strong competitor launch: however, the breadth of ITEs portfolio of events, with its geographic and sector diversity, reduce the risk of a competitive threat to the Groups overall business.
Integration and With new acquisitions there can be no The Group has formal investment decision management of assurances that the Group will achieve the criteria to identify suitable, earnings enhancing, acquisitions expected return on its investment, particularly acquisitions targets and employs experienced as the success of any acquisition also depends professionals to drive the acquisition process on the Groups ability to integrate the acquired and performs, when appropriate, financial, tax, business or assets.
legal and commercial due diligence.
Postacquisition plans are prepared to ensure businesses are effectively integrated into the Group and that planned synergies are realised.
People ITEs employees have longstanding ITE has sought to build loyalty in its staff by relationships with customers and a unique ensuring remuneration is competitive and knowledge of the exhibitions business.
Loss of through a wide distribution of the Groups key staff could impact the shortterm prospects longterm incentive plans.
ITE has a good of a specific event or sector.
record of retaining its key staff through both growth and recessionary times.
The Group seeks to minimise exposure by: Financial risk The Group is exposed to movements in foreign foreigncurrency risk exchange rates against Sterling for both trading Protecting a certain amount of Euro denominated sales with forward contracts.
transactions and for the translation of overseas operations.
The principal exposure is to the Euro Seeking to maximise the matching of costs and revenues in the same currency.
and the Ruble which form the basis of the Groups invoicing and to the Ruble which forms the base books of the Groups Russian operations.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38
