52 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties ITV has a formal risk management process which is The Board also reviews risk appetite to ensure ITV is carrying embedded within the business to support the identification an acceptable level of risk.
During the year it conducted an and effective management of risks across the business.
It exercise to assess the current risk appetite of the business is regularly reviewed and adapted as the Company, industry and the actual risk the business takes with respect to and macro environment evolves.
the following categories: financial, market, operational, compliance and regulation, creative investment and Our approach, which is consistent with previous years, covers organisational.
This is considered to be the first step towards risks at all levels of the organisation and considers risks in using risk appetite as a decision making tool and further three core groups: work will be undertaken in 2014 to enhance this process.
High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL risks of low inherent The Board also continues to monitor closely ITVs specific likelihood but where there would be major consequences financial risks, including foreign exchange, borrowing levels, were the risk to materialise: interest rates and pension risks.
Strategic risks would impact the successful execution of The Audit Committee keeps the overall effectiveness of the strategy: and the risk management framework and the risk management Process level risks embedded into everyday activity process under review.
Risk management process The Management Board has responsibility for the content and operation of the risk management framework and performs regular reviews of all risks.
In 2013 all the HILL HILL and Strategic risks were reassessed and further refined to risks improve our risk management.
As well as management review, process level risks are also subject to an ongoing review by internal audit.
Strategic risks Mitigating actions have been identified for all the HILL and Strategic risks.
Each strategic risk has been mapped to at least one of the four key strategic priorities and, where possible, assigned key risk indicators.
Where appropriate, Process level risks the key risk indicators are aligned to our key performance indicators KPIs on page 36 or a subset of these KPIs.
All HILL and strategic risks are owned by at least one member of the Management Board.
Risk management framework and risk appetite Risk monitoring process The Board is responsible for establishing a robust and ITVs risk monitoring process is embedded in the running appropriate risk management framework and risk and review of the business.
Risks are primarily controlled management process for ITV.
The Board, supported by the through the risk management process.
In addition to the risk Audit Committee, regularly reviews the risk management specific mitigating actions outlined below, risks are regularly framework, its content and its operations.
This includes discussed and considered through day-to-day operations reviewing the risks themselves and the mitigating actions.
and through a number of divisional Board and review processes.
Internal Audit Plan The internal audit plan is driven from ITVs risk management framework.
As outlined above management has completed a number of activities with respect to HILL risks, Strategic risks and Process level risks.
Internal audit reviews the auditable elements of these risks and this informs the areas and topics that internal audit focuses on.
com Stock code: ITV High Impact, Low Likelihood Risks HILL Risk Theme HILL Risks Mitigating Factors Financial ITV loses its credit status or lines The business is cash generative and in a net cash position.
of funding with existing lenders or Working capital management remains a key focus and there is a collapse of a major bank ITVs profit to cash conversion rate remains above ITVs impacting financial arrangements 90% rolling three year target.
ITV has a 250 million revolving funding facility with a number of banks which remains unused.
The low gross debt levels that ITV now has would enable the Company to obtain debt from the marketplace if needed.
Financial There is a major collapse in There is regular communication between ITV and the investment values leading to a pension trustees.
material impact on the pension The pension schemes assets are invested in a diversified scheme deficit.
portfolio, with a significant amount of the fund held in bonds.
ITV has worked with the pension trustees to limit the potential deficit by entering into deals to limit exposure, for example, a longevity swap.
Operational A significant event removes a number There is a business resilience plan in place which includes of the key management team from succession plans or nominated replacements for all key the business on a long-term or positions within the Company.
Reputation An event with public interest that There is a Company-wide Code of Conduct in place which causes significant reputational and employees should follow.
Reputation There is a major health and safety ITV has a central Health & Safety team and Health & Safety incident that results in a significant policies and procedures are in place, with appropriate loss of human life.
training for employees where required.
Regular inspections are undertaken at all sites, which are run alongside a programme of Health & Safety audits.
Reputation A major incident results in ITV being A risk register of broadcast operations including third unable to continue with scheduled parties is in place and reviewed on a regular basis.
An end-to-end review of the broadcast cycle is regularly undertaken.
An incident management process has been agreed and disaster recovery plans are in place.
Reputation There is a significant or unexpected ITV regularly communicates with legislative groups, change in regulation or legislation.
legal panels and Ofcom to monitor potential policy and regulatory developments.
indd 53 28 02 2014 12:21:20 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 54 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Performance and Financials Create a lean, creatively Maximise audience and Drive new revenue streams by Build a strong international dynamic and fit-for-purpose revenue share from our existing exploiting our content across content business 1 2 3 4 organisation free-to-air broadcast business multiple platforms, free and pay Strategic Risks The key strategic risks are those that impact the successful execution of the strategy.
They require regular monitoring by the Management Board and are frequently discussed at management and divisional boards.
All of the strategic risks identified have been mapped to the four strategic priorities of the Strategy and have been grouped by key risk themes.
Strategic Risks Mitigating Factors Strategic Priorities The Market Growing non-advertising revenues, in areas such as ITV 2 3 4 There is a major decline in Studios and Online, Pay & Interactive, remains a key part of advertising revenues and ITV the strategy.
does not build sufficient nonITV continues to focus on cash and costs, ensuring the NAR revenue streams to offset Company has an adequate financial liquidity and balance the financial impact of this sheet flexibility.
The Market ITV continues to support free platforms, including 2 3 The television market moves YouView, to keep free-to-air strong.
significantly towards pay ITV looks at and evaluates the opportunities for expanding television as a preferred its existing pay services and other pay offerings.
model, negatively impacting ITV explores other platforms to understand viewing habits ITVs free-to-air revenues.
and what people are prepared to pay for.
The Market The business continues to develop ITV Player VOD 2 3 4 A faster than expected shift services, maximise the distribution of ITV Player and grow to Video on Demand VOD or its VOD advertising business.
other new technologies causes ITV monitors the market for new technology and where a sustained loss of advertising appropriate explores how ITV can participate.
People ITV invests in training and development for all key 1 3 2 4 ITV fails to attract, develop and colleagues in the business.
retain key creative, commercial Strategic focus on working across the business to embed and management talent with and strengthen the culture of One ITV way of working.
the skills required for the Succession plans are in place for all key positions within changing business.
Organisation, Structure and ITV constantly reassesses the business to create a fit-for- 1 2 3 4 Processes purpose organisation.
ITV fails to evolve its ITV continues to embed and strengthen the culture of organisational structure One ITV way of working.
and culture to ensure that it is capable of delivering continued growth from the new businesses or revenue streams.
Organisation, Structure and ITV has ongoing projects to ensure transmission and 1 Processes distribution technologies are fit-for-purpose.
A significant high profile There are disaster recovery and incident management incident or series of events plans in place in high risk areas of the business to help such as transmission incidents deliver a rapid and flexible response.
or a major regulatory breach causes significant reputational damage.
com Stock code: ITV Strategic Risks Mitigating Factors Strategic Priorities Organisation, Structure and ITV is focused on both protecting and exploiting existing 2 3 4 Processes rights and ensuring that future rights generated accrue There is significant loss of to ITV.
programme or sports rights or ITV has a detailed model to evaluate the value of third ITV fails to identify and obtain party rights to ensure it only buys rights that make the optimal rights packages.
Organisation, Structure and ITV maximises opportunities for ITV Studios to create 2 3 4 Processes successful shows by investing in the creative pipeline ITV fails to create and own and focusing on programmes and genres that can return a sufficient number of hit and travel internationally, i. e. drama, entertainment and programmes formats.
ITV is focused on hiring and retaining the right key creative talent.
Organisation, Structure and Talent management plans have been developed and 3 4 Processes reviewed to ensure adequate succession planning ITV fails to properly resource, across ITV.
creatively and operationally, ITV continues to embed and strengthen the culture of the growth businesses, One ITV way of working.
in particular online and Lessons from recent investments are captured through international content.
Organisation, Structure & A management board sponsored Information Security 1 2 3 4 Processes Steering Group is in place to ensure the appropriate ITV loses a significant volume management of information security.
of personal or sensitive data.
Mandatory online training modules, awareness campaigns and simplified information security policies for employees.
Monitoring of information sharing outside of ITV.
Technology System requirements are kept under review with business 1 2 3 4 ITV remains heavily reliant growth and system modernisation projects implemented on legacy systems, which as appropriate.
could potentially restrict the A replacement plan is in place for the legacy systems ability to grow the business.
which remains under constant review and development These systems and processes to ensure technology systems meet the needs of the may not be appropriate for business.
non-advertising revenues or international growth.
Technology Disaster recovery plans are in place with tests conducted 1 2 3 ITV fails to ensure appropriate annually on business critical systems.
business continuity planning Internal Audit review the disaster recovery plans and the and resilience within its core test results as appropriate.
systems, processes, platforms and technology infrastructure.
Technology We continue to improve our ability to monitor, detect 1 There is a sustained cyber and respond to cyber threats internally and through viral attack causing prolonged partnerships with specialist security organisations.
system denial or major Mandatory online training modules, awareness campaigns reputational damage, for and simplified information security policies for employees.
example the ability to There are disaster recovery and incident management broadcast our channels or the plans in place for high risk areas of the business to help availability of ITV Player.
deliver a rapid and flexible response.
A management board sponsored Information Security Steering Group is in place to ensure the appropriate management of information security.
The Strategic Report as set out on pages 2 to 55 was approved by the Board on 26 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Adam Crozier Chief Executive 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 52-55 Risks and Uncertainties.
indd 55 28 02 2014 12:21:23 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 56 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Board of Directors 58 Management Board 60 Directors Report and Responsibilities 62 Chairmans Governance Statement 67 Corporate Governance 68 Audit Committee Report 75 Remuneration Report 82 24 Hours in A&E 24 Hours in A&E is made by The Garden, part of ITV Studios, for Channel 4.
The fourth series aired in 2013 with the fifth series airing in early 2014.
