O u e r c n v e a l l l u e e c s x e m l a Governance Corporate governance statement continued Our Principal Risks & Uncertainties The risk management process is closely aligned to our strategy, The most significant principal risks identified by the Board and the which focuses on growing the business through the addition of corresponding mitigating controls are set out below in no order of priority.
new range, space, business development, channels to market and property management.
Risk is an inherent part of doing business.
Business continuity and major incidents response The management of these risks is based on a balance of risk and reward determined through careful assessment of both the potential Risk likelihood and impact as well as risk appetite.
Consideration is given to A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the both reputational as well as financial impact, recognising the significant Groups ability to trade.
commercial value attributable to the Sainsburys brand.
Each principal risk and uncertainty is considered in the context of how it relates to the Mitigation achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The current business Sainsburys has detailed plans in place, supported by senior strategy and objectives are categorised into five areas of focus as follows: representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents and have the authority levels to make decisions in the event of a potentially disruptive incident.
The Business Continuity Steering Group meets quarterly to ensure that the business continuity BC policy and strategy is fit for purpose.
In addition, it oversees the mitigation of all risks associated Growing with BC and IT disaster recovery.
In the event of any unplanned space Great & creating food or unforeseen events the Business Continuity Management Team property is convened at short notice to manage any associated risk to the value business.
All key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would be Five areas of focus made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly tested.
Developing Compelling new general business merchandise & clothing Business strategy Complementary Risk channels & services If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not communicate or implement its strategies effectively, the business may be negatively impacted.
Risks to delivering the strategy need to be properly understood and managed to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Mitigation A clear strategy remains in place with five key areas of focus: Great food: Compelling general merchandise & clothing: Complementary channels & services: Developing new business: and Growing space & creating property value.
Progress against these areas of focus and any risks to delivery, such as the availability of suitable new store sites, are regularly reviewed by the Board and the overall strategy is reviewed at the two-day Strategy Conference.
The Operating Board also holds regular sessions to discuss strategy.
This activity is supported by a dedicated strategy team.
To ensure the strategy is communicated and understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers on a continual basis.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 a k n e o i u t s a r d e i f p f O e r e n t Governance Corporate governance statement continued Colleague engagement, retention and capability Financial strategy and treasury risk Risk Risk The Group employs around 157,000 colleagues who are critical The main financial risks are the availability of short and long-term to the success of our business.
Attracting and maintaining good funding to meet business needs, counterparty liabilities and relations with talented colleagues and investing in their training fluctuations in interest and foreign currency rates which continue and development is essential to the efficiency and sustainability to be impacted by the turbulence in the financial markets.
Mitigation Mitigation The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits liquid resources, funding requirements and interest rate and currency packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive exposures and the associated risks as set out in note 28 on page with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling 104.
The Group Treasury function has clear policies and operating career opportunities.
Colleague surveys, performance reviews, procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
communications with trade unions and regular communication of business activities are some of the methods the Group uses to Health and safety people and product understand and respond to colleagues needs.
Processes are also in place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning Risk throughout the business.
Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and customers is of utmost importance.
In addition, it is paramount to Data security maintaining the confidence our customers have in our business.
Mitigation Risk Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls It is essential that the security of customer, colleague or required to manage health and safety and product safety risks company confidential data is maintained.
A major breach of across the business and comply with all applicable regulations.
These information security could have a major impact on the business.
cover the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting of Mitigation construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in place Various information security policies and standards are in place in our depots, stores and offices to the controls in place to ensure which focus on encryption, network security, access controls, system people and product safety and integrity.
security, data protection and information handling.
A review of key contractors across the organisation who hold sensitive customer In addition, established product testing programmes are also in place or colleague data is ongoing, and progress is monitored by the to support rigorous monitoring of product traceability and provide Information Security Committee.
A risk based security testing assurance over product safety and integrity.
Supplier terms and approach across Sainsburys IT infrastructure and applications is in conditions and product specifications set clear standards for product place to identify and remediate ongoing vulnerabilities.
raw material safety and quality which suppliers are expected to comply with.
Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and Developing new business internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and Risk safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource is dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group Exploring a range of new opportunities beyond our core Safety Committee and specialist teams including Convenience Risk business forms part of our five areas of focus.
Robust Managers and Logistics and Commercial Safety Specialists.
identification and management of risks associated with the new business development agenda is essential to support successful delivery of objectives.
IT systems and infrastructure Mitigation The existing risk management framework and processes embedded in Risk the business extend to exploring new opportunities beyond the core.
The Group is reliant on its IT systems and operational infrastructure All projects have a steering group and subject matter experts are in order to trade efficiently.
Inadequate systems or failure of key engaged as appropriate.
A formal review and approval governance systems could have a significant impact on our business.
structure is also in place.
Mitigation The Group has extensive controls in place to maintain the integrity and efficiency of its systems including detailed recovery plans in the event of a Environment and sustainability significant failure.
New innovations and upgrades to systems are ongoing Risk to improve both the customer experience and colleague efficiency.
Prior to introducing system changes, rigorous testing is completed.
Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing the environmental impact of the business with a focus on reducing packaging and new ways of reducing waste and energy usage across stores, depots and offices.
Mitigation A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Steering Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our customers expectations in this area.
Further details are included in the Corporate Responsibility review on pages 43 to 45.
52 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Pension risk Trading environment Risk Risk The Group operates a number of pension arrangements which Effective management of the trading account is key to includes a defined benefit scheme.
This scheme is subject to the achievement of performance targets.
The continued risks in relation to its liabilities as a result of changes in life challenging economic environment and competitive retail expectancy, inflation and future salary increases, and to risks pressure could affect the performance of the Group in terms of regarding the value of investments and the returns derived sales, costs and operations, through: from such investments.
the ongoing challenges to household disposable income: Mitigation competitor pricing positions: An investment strategy is in place which has been developed by the the reduction of the industry profit pool in the last year: and pension trustee, in consultation with the Company, to mitigate the commodity costs driving up the cost of goods.
volatility of liabilities, to diversify investment risk and to manage cash.
In April 2013, a proposal was announced to close the Sainsburys There is also a risk of supplier or other counterparty failure, Defined Benefit Pension Scheme to future accrual, which will help us to with possible operational or financial consequences for manage the escalating costs of pensions and protect the pension that the Group.
colleagues have already built up in the scheme.
A consultation period Mitigation is currently underway following which a final decision will be made.
We continue to focus on delivering quality products with universal appeal, at a range of price points ensuring value for all our customers.
Regulatory environment This is achieved through the continuous review of our key customer Risk metrics, monitoring of current market trends and price points across competitors, active management of price positions, development of The Groups operations are subject to a broad spectrum of sales propositions and increased promotion and marketing activity.
Key areas subject to regulation While external cost pressures including oil-related costs, commodity include planning, competition and environmental issues, pricing and business rates affect our business, the Group continues to employment, pensions and tax laws and regulations over the work hard to mitigate the impact of these cost pressures on customers Groups products and services.
and on our overall profitability through the delivery of cost savings.
Sainsburys undertakes credit checks on suppliers and maintains regular, Failure to comply with laws and regulations could lead to civil open dialogue with key suppliers concerning their ability to trade.
and or criminal legal prosecution and fines or imprisonment imposed on Sainsburys or our colleagues.
In addition, a breach could lead to reputational damage.
Transitional risk Sainsburys Bank Mitigation Risk There is an established governance process in place to monitor Acquiring full ownership of Sainsburys Bank will introduce regulatory developments and to ensure that all existing and change-driven operational risk in particular through the forthcoming regulations are complied with.
Regular reviews are transitional period.
This transitional risk could have an adverse completed across the estate to ensure compliance and that training impact on people, processes, regulatory compliance and needs are addressed as required.
Failure to transition successfully may have an adverse impact on the Sainsburys brand.
A robust Processes for monitoring and embedding training for key new risk management process is essential to support successful legislation are in place and Sainsburys also has a dedicated internal transition.
legal department to provide the relevant colleagues impacted by the regulations with advice and guidance.
Mitigation Executive sponsorship and a change governance structure is in place to manage and oversee the transition, including engagement of management with financial services experience.
The risk management process includes early identification of key transitional risks along with mitigation plans.
Tracking of risk mitigation effectiveness will be ongoing throughout the transitional period.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53
