PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE COMPANY In the course of normal business, the Company Information technology continually assesses significant risks faced and takes The Companys daily operations are increasingly reliant action to mitigate the potential impact.
on its information technology systems.
Any prolonged or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk The following risks, while not intended to be a to trading.
The Company seeks to minimise this risk comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of the by ensuring that there are policies and procedures board the principal risks and uncertainties currently to ensure protection of hardware, software and facing the Company: information, by various means, including a disasterrecovery plan, a system of backups and external Strategic risks hardware and software.
Economic outlook The Company aims to improve its customer offering Reputational risk continually, so that it remains competitively placed in the The Company is aware that, in operating in a consumermarket in which it operates.
Adverse economic conditions facing business, its business reputation, built over many can theoretically have an effect on the Companys years, can be damaged in a significantly shorter performance, although, historically, these effects have timeframe.
The Company, therefore, in its daily business, been muted.
maintains substantial efforts in this area to improve operational controls.
Regulation of the sale of alcohol The pub business is highly regulated, with increases in Financial risks alcohol duty, as well as increased regulation, a constant Capital risk management feature of the industry for many years.
The Company aims to increase sales, earnings and distributions to shareholders, while maintaining Commercial risks reasonable levels of capital and debt.
Financial conditions Cost increases since 2007 8 demonstrate that banking facilities may not Inflationary pressures on the Companys costs pose a risk be available for some companies in extraordinary to margins, although the Company has been able to circumstances and this is a risk to the Company.
achieve satisfactory arrangements with its suppliers, up However, in spite of extreme financial conditions, the until now, in both good and difficult economic conditions.
Company was able to refinance its debt in March 2010, August 2011 and July 2013.
Operational risks Health and safety Interest-rate risk The Company endeavours to ensure that all reasonable The Company has dealt with the risks of an increase standards of health and safety are met, including a in interest rates by swapping the majority of its process by which risks are identified in a timely manner floating-rate borrowings into fixed rates which and remedied accordingly.
Supply chain risks During the 52 weeks ended 28 July 2013, if the interest It is fundamental to our operations that we should rates on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% be able to supply our pubs with the required goods higher, with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit for and services.
the year would have been reduced by 1,088,000 and equity increased by 19,525,000.
The movement in We work closely with our suppliers and central equity arises from a change in the mark to market distribution partners, in order to maintain availability of valuation of the interest-rate swaps into which the products, at all times.
Company has entered, calculated by a 1% shift of the market yield curve.
The Company considers that a 1% Head office and national distribution centre movement in interest rates represents a reasonable Any disasters at the Companys head office in Watford sensitivity to potential changes.
However, this analysis is or its national distribution centre in Daventry could for illustrative purposes only.
seriously disrupt its daily operations.
Various measures have been undertaken by the Company, including a Credit risk comprehensive disaster-recovery plan, seeking to minimise The Company does not have a significant concentration the impact of any such incidents.
of credit risk, as the majority of its revenue is in cash.
40 J D WETHERSPOON PLC PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE COMPANY At the balance sheet date, the Company was exposed to a maximum credit risk of 5.5 million, of which 210,000 was overdue and an impairment charge of 105,000 was taken to the income statement in the year.
Cash deposits with financial institutions and derivative transactions are permitted with investment-grade financial institutions only.
The Company receives a small amount of income from properties which it has sublet to third parties, but the sums involved from any one letting are immaterial.
Liquidity risk The Company regularly monitors cash flow forecasts and endeavours to ensure that there are enough funds, including committed bank and finance lease facilities, to meet its business requirements and comply with banking covenants.
The risks in this area relate to miscalculating cash flow requirements, being unable to renew credit facilities or a substantial fall in sales and profits.
