Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties 21 Wood Groups Core Values provide a sound basis on which to make decisions and assist us in considering the broad spectrum of risks and uncertainties that can impact operational and financial performance across the Group.
The risks below include the principal risks faced by the Group during the year and were included in the Board review process carried out during February 2014 in accordance with the guidance on internal controls in the Turnbull guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Effective risk management Oversight We continue to review our approach to risk The Board is responsible for the Groups system The Board formally reviews risk management and management and seek to improve associated of internal control and risk management which is internal control arrangements twice a year, usually internal control processes.
Some of the more fundamental to the achievement of the Groups in February and August, and through the course recent developments introduced in 2013 include: strategic objectives.
of the year the Board will consider current and a refresh of the Groups risk assessment emerging risks facing the Group.
In addition, the process, including a series of facilitated Our Core Values Board monitors the Groups attitude to risk with a workshops involving divisional and The effective management of risk is necessary specific focus in 2013 relating to our appetite for functional senior managers across the across all aspects of our business model and our lump sum and fixed price contracting.
Group Core Values provide our people, customers and suppliers with a clear view of how we operate Our leadership teams provide oversight through the introduction of revised policies in which helps frame the risk culture across the specific activities designed to monitor key risks respect of the risk associated with the Group.
This is an ongoing process and bidding and execution of lump sum and we are continually seeking to enhance our risk fixed price contracts Operations monitoring and reporting tools.
an update of our security policy and Our people across our business operations are associated process for assessing security at the forefront of effective risk management.
Assurance risk within the locations in which we The risk profile across each of our divisions Various assurance mechanisms are utilised operate.
varies through the nature of our activities, specific across the Group such as peer reviews on certain customer contracts and geographic spread, significant or higher risk contracts as well as and each division operates under an established a programme of risk based audits performed policy and procedural framework which supports by the Group Internal Audit function.
This work our corporate attitude to risk.
complements business specific activity in areas such as Safety, HR and Quality.
HIGH HIGH Risk is managed through our four lines of defence Our Core  Define who we are, how we work, what we believe in and what we stand for 1 Wood Group Core Values Values  Set out how we act and how we expect to be treated underpin  Provide a sound basis on which to make decisions all lines of defence  Establish policy and procedure framework 2 Operations  Authorisation, approval, monitoring controls  Management reporting  Set direction, define policies 3 Oversight  Provide guidance over the management of risk within the business  Compliance with law, regulation and quality standards Assurance across  Independent challenge 4 Assurance operations  Evaluate risk management, control and governance processes and oversight  Recommend process and control improvements activities LOW More on page 05 Our results and how we measure our performance performance 09-11 Divisional performance 24 Corporate Governance John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Safety & Operational Financial Environmental Assurance Change in risk from 2012 Failure to deliver safety excellence Failure to deliver expected An internal or external event An environmental incident could and process assurance could operational performance could that impacts our ability to raise lead to legislative or regulatory harm people, damage assets, lead to a requirement for work to finance, achieve forecast, action, harm to the environment impact our reputation and result in be repeated, loss of work through effectively manage our working and associated reputational customers no longer selecting the damage to our reputation, or capital or hampers managements damage.
Group as a supplier of services.
ability to make effective decisions or report on our financial position.
We have a fundamental duty to Specific risks in this area include protect our people and recognise the start up and execution of The Group operates in a number the risks associated with poor new contracts as well as risks of countries where the tax safety performance leading to a associated with the integration regimes can be complex and major incident resulting in a loss of acquired businesses and the uncertain.
This can increase of life.
the risk of operating in certain geographies.
The Group may A number of our recent take a position on a particular tax acquisitions involve construction treatment that differs from that of work and increased driving activity a tax authority on audit, leading to which bring an element of inherent disagreement or dispute, and the safety risk.
Although we continue risk of higher tax payments.
to embed our safety processes within new acquisitions, the overall safety risk profile within the Group has increased slightly.
Safety & Assurance continues We have a review and approval We have Group-wide accounting, We seek to deliver high-quality to be our top priority and is process for new work aligned to treasury and tax policies that project execution and operational underpinned by the Group HSSE formal delegations of authority.
underpin our approach to performance.
We have start-up and execution A large number of our business We established a sub-committee plans for key projects supported We execute regular budgeting, units have ISO 14001 certified of the Board to specifically cover by monitoring and reporting.
forecasting and monitoring or equivalent environmental Safety & Assurance matters.
management systems and we We seek to deliver high-quality participate in the CDP initiative to We use indicators to monitor and project execution and operational We carry out a review and get external benchmarking of our measure personal and process performance.
approval process in relation to performance.
capital commitments, acquisitions Integration teams are assigned and disposals.
We drive heightened High Potential and High Severity to new acquisitions with detailed environmental awareness through incidents are subject to increased plans developed to monitor the We have internal audit, quarterly HSE alerts and environment scrutiny, with formal crossintegration process.
divisional review and learning financial risk self-assessment Collaboration across business processes introduced.
Near Miss processes embedded across the Our integrity management focus units and divisions has been a reporting, analysis and learning Group.
contributes to process integrity, key theme for 2013.
Sharing was further developed during which helps mitigate against spills ideas and opportunities across In February 2013, the Group 2013. and pollution.
We also continue to the Group allows us to offer a renewed and extended its bilateral focus on expanding our carbon Our internal review process unified, seamless service to our borrowing facilities from $800m footprint reduction activities.
includes self assessment and customers.
to $950m, with the maturity date certification.
This gives us the opportunity to Our Safety Leadership invest in future growth.
We drive Programme has been extensively strong cash flow and maintain a deployed across the Group.
robust balance sheet to have the flexibility to invest in the business and make acquisitions.
Read more about Read more about Read our Financial review on page 12- Read more about Safety & Assurance on page 16 Operations on page 5 11 14, our Financial Responsibility Core Environment on page 17 Value on page 19 and the activities of the Audit Committee on page 32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Risk profile Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 23 Key: No change in risk since 2012 Risk has decreased since 2012 Risk has increased since 2012 Commercial Compliance People Strategic Change in risk from 2012 Weaknesses in the pre-contract A substantial ethical breach or The availability of appropriately Changes in market conditions award process, inappropriate non-compliance with laws could skilled personnel remains a may influence customers pricing, misalignment of contract lead to reputational damage, challenge for our industry.
investment decisions which could terms, or failure to comply with associated regulatory or legislative lead to a decline in demand for Failure to attract, develop or retain contractual conditions could lead action, loss of business and our services.
Over-exposure to suitably qualified personnel to to reputational damage, or poor claims for compensation.
any one customer, geographic support our clients needs could financial performance.
market or loss of a significant We operate in a number of restrict our growth.
business partner could impact our Our exposure to specific risks countries with a higher risk of performance.
Unplanned changes to our associated with lump sum and corruption and recognise the management teams could impact fixed price contracts reduced heightened risk if we utilise third Analysts estimate some reduction our ability to deliver operational during the year as we introduced parties to conduct business on in growth in E&P spend reflecting and strategic objectives.
a new policy and associated our behalf.
a greater focus on capital budgets controls for contracts that contain by our customers and this is lump sum or fixed-price elements reflected in the slight increase in to ensure that we keep our overall our risk profile in this area.
That risk profile within our comfort said, the mix of opex and capex levels.
activities and the contribution of completed acquisitions is expected to lead to growth overall in 2014, with growth in Wood Group PSN offsetting a reduction in Wood Group Engineering.
We have a rigorous approach We have a Business Ethics Policy We carry out a Board succession We seek to diversify risk by to the review and approval of which forms the foundation of planning process, led by maintaining a broad customer and price, scope, subcontractor our compliance programme, the Nomination Committee.
geographic spread across the oil management and contract risk and requires our personnel to We maintain detailed line & gas and power sectors.
on contracts with lump sum and conduct business ethically and management succession plans We seek a balance of business fixed price elements.
legally throughout our global which are monitored by the between customers capex and organisation.
Derogation from the Groups opex spend.
We also monitor and contracting procedure is subject Our Business Ethics committee Businesses measure their report customer concentration.
oversees our business ethics performance against established We maintain relationship compliance programme and the human resources practices.
Senior management undertake management programmes across implementation of our Business commercial reviews of We operate competitive and top customers and business Ethics Policy.
The committee performance on selected performance based reward partners.
comprises senior managers from contracts and report to the Board.
It appoints We have developed a common the Groups Responsible Officers We monitor the adequacy of our We offer appropriate training and brand to support our collaboration who, liaising with designated insurance cover.
Country Officers, are responsible We negotiate appropriate We aim to attract the best people We encourage greater for promoting ethical conduct protections in relation to to our business by building on collaboration to make better use across all businesses and acquisitions where we can, our management track record of of our resources and deepen and locations.
typically including warranties and delivering through cycle growth improve relationships with top During 2013 we moved our indemnities.
and by building market leading customers across the Group.
business ethics helpline facility positions.
We look to maintain a balance of We strive for a broad international to an independent provider to opex and capex based activities footprint to gain exposure to improve multilingual access to provide relative profit and loss growing areas and insulate and emphasise the option of and cash flow stability.
ourselves against regional confidentiality of reporting.
We conduct timely investigations and revised our investigation process and protocol during the year.
We monitor export controls, trade compliance and intellectual property risk.
Read more about Commerical Read more about Read more about Read more about on pages 4-11 Compliance on page 20 People on page 18 Markets and relationships on page 16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Mitigation, monitoring and assurance Risk profile
