Directors Report Principal Risks 0DQDJLQJ RXU ULVNV 7KH VLJQLFDQW ULVNV LGHQWLHG E. D]DNKP V DUH WKRVH WKDW FRXOG PDWHULDOO DHFW WKH URXSV QDQFLDO FRQGLWLRQ SHUIRUPDQFH VWUDWHJ DQG SURVSHFWV 7KHVH VKRXOG EH FDUHIXOO FRQVLGHUHG LQ FRQMXQFWLRQ ZLWK WKH FDXWLRQDU VWDWHPHQW VHW RXW RQ SDJH 7KHUH PD EH RWKHU ULVNV XQNQRZQ RU FXUUHQWO EHOLHYHG LPPDWHULDO E WKH URXS ZKLFK PLJKW EHFRPH PDWHULDO Operational risks Health and safety respect of long-term disability allowances payable to current and former Risk description employees who suffered workplace injuries.
The level of disability payments Mining is a hazardous industry with inherent risks and failure to adopt and are indexed to current pay rates within the Group.
embed health and safety management systems could result in harm to Kazakhmys employees as well as fines and penalties and damage to the Action Groups reputation.
Fatality levels within the Group are higher than at Kazakhmys recognises that the highest standards of health and safety comparable internationally listed mining companies with 18 fatalities practices are vital to its success and are a key responsibility of all employees.
The Groups policies and procedures in these areas are designed to identify Impact relevant risks and opportunities and provide a clear framework for Health and safety incidents could lead to a number of adverse conducting business.
Further details on the measures being taken to consequences, including harm to people, as well as production disruption, improve health and safety practices, including the work of the reputational damage and financial loss.
The Group has a dened benets Groups HSE function, are set out in the Corporate Responsibility obligation of $530 million 2012: $373 million, the majority of which is in Report commencing on page 53. Business interruption Risk description Action The business of mining, smelting and rening metals and the production of Work is being undertaken across the Group, with the support of power is resource intensive, and involves a number of risks, including, but appropriate in-house and third-party specialists, to address operational not limited to, geological and technological challenges, weather and other risk issues.
The Group has a number of initiatives underway to improve natural phenomena such as oods and earthquakes, res, explosions, equipment availability and reduce outages.
The Group is partially protected equipment failures, delays in supplies and loss of key inputs including from the loss of key assets by the availability of geographically diversied electricity, water and coal, which can cause prolonged mine or plant mining and concentrating operations, the option of selling concentrate shutdowns or periods of reduced production.
and access to multiple power sources.
A combined property damage and business interruption catastrophic insurance programme is in place which Impact can provide protection from some of the financial impact of a major Any disruption to operational activities could have a negative impact on the incident at the Groups main concentrating, smelting and rening facilities Groups profitability and cash ows, and may require the Group to make and power stations.
In addition to revenue losses, long-term business interruption could result in a loss of customers and reputational damage.
Political risk Risk description Action Most of the Groups mining and power operations are in Kazakhstan.
The Government of Kazakhstan has actively pursued a programme of Accordingly, the Group is substantially dependent on the social, political, economic reform, helping to make it one of the most politically stable and economic, legal and scal conditions prevailing in Kazakhstan.
economically developed countries in Central Asia.
The Board continues to view the political, social and economic environment within Kazakhstan Impact favourably, and looking forward, remains optimistic about the conditions Changes to Kazakhstans foreign trade export and import, foreign for business in the region.
Kazakhmys maintains a proactive dialogue with investments, property, tax, environmental and subsoil use regimes or the Government of Kazakhstan across a range of issues, including subsoil social responsibility expectations or other changes that affect the use regulations, taxation, the environment and social responsibility and supportive business environment in Kazakhstan could negatively affect community relations.
the Groups business, financial position and performance and decisions on future investments.
48 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report New projects Risk description Action The development of new projects involves many risks including geological, Prior to an investment decision being made, certain evaluation activities engineering, procurement, staffing, nancing and regulatory risks.
If the are performed including, where appropriate, feasibility and other technical Group fails to adopt an appropriate procurement and project management studies.
significant projects are subject to the Groups capital appraisal strategy, it may experience delays to project schedules and an increase in process, including Board review and approval as they progress.
Regulatory risks include failures to obtain and maintain applicable also a number of planning and monitoring procedures in place addressing permits, licences or approvals from the relevant authorities to perform the management of capital expenditure.
The Group ensures that sufficient certain development work.
expertise, from both in-house and third-party specialists, is utilised on projects throughout their life cycle.
In 2013, the Group appointed Non Impact Ferrous China to provide additional resources to the Bozshakol project, Projects may fail to achieve the desired economic returns due to an inability focused on the construction and commissioning of the processing plant.
to recover mineral reserves as planned and higher than expected capital The Group is assessing the Aktogay project and plans to replace the and operating costs.
Projects may also fail to complete or suffer delays principal contractor with several smaller contracts in 2014.
The Projects which may reduce future production volumes and result in a financial loss Assurance Committee regularly assesses the operational and financial to the Group.
A reduction in future production volumes would also status of these projects to identify any material risks to their successful increase the cash cost on a per unit basis.
A lack of available funding commissioning and start-up.
In respect of project funding, Kazakhmys has may prevent projects being completed.
committed nancing in place for Bozshakol and Aktogay.
Details on the progress the Group is making with the major projects are included in the Operating Review on page 34.
Change management could result in impairment charges being recognised.
The divestment of Risk description certain operations could result in accounting losses on their disposal and The Group is taking action to cut costs and review discretionary capital increase the Groups financial gearing.
The optimisation programme, asset expenditure in order to improve the profitability and operating cash ows review and potential divestment of certain operations may adversely of the business.
An optimisation programme and asset review commenced affect other initiatives, operational results and negatively impact labour, in 2013 which has resulted in operating cost and capital expenditure community and Government relations.
Further information on the savings.
Certain production assets and medium-sized projects have been potential impact of the divestment of certain operations is included suspended and impairments of $670 million have been recognised, under the Acquisitions and divestments risk.
including $596 million in respect of operating Zhezkazgan mines.
The optimisation programme and asset review are progressing in 2014, Action continuing the assessment of production assets and potential labour, The Group has formed a cross-functional project team, supported by material usage and supply chain efficiencies.
The asset review could external advisors, to lead the optimisation programme, asset review and lead to the divestment of certain operations.
assess the potential divestment of certain operations, which is overseen by the Board.
The Group is engaged with key stakeholders, including Impact representatives of the workforce and the local and national Government.
The optimisation programme and asset review may not result in the The terms of any divestment of operations would also require approval expected benets being achieved and may itself lead to increased in accordance with London Stock Exchange Rules.
operational risks and additional costs being incurred.
A change in use of assets, or revised expectations of their future economic potential, Labour, mining equipment and supplies and these factors together may impact the economic viability of certain Risk description mines and projects.
In 2013, the total cash operating costs of Kazakhmys Commodity price uctuations can have an impact on industry demand for Mining rose by 7% and impairments have been recognised on certain assets labour, mining equipment and supplies.
In periods of elevated commodity prices competition for skilled personnel intensies, both internationally and due to their challenging economic outlook.
within Kazakhstan, and availability of mining equipment and supplies can be Action subject to long lead times and cost ination.
The remote location of some The Group actively monitors the market for labour and mining equipment of the Groups operations also makes the attraction and retention of skilled and supplies to remain competitive in the hiring of staff and procurement staff at these sites more challenging.
of mining equipment and supplies.
Kazakhmys has an extensive social Impact programme for its employees and their dependents and invests in training Kazakhmys may suffer shortages of skilled workers and delays in obtaining facilities and staff development to raise skill levels.
To mitigate inationary mining equipment and supplies which limit the Groups ability to operate pressures the Group has an optimisation programme and asset review effectively.
Coupled with a decline in grades at the Groups mature mines, underway to improve cash generation and is in active discussions with ination of employee costs, mining equipment and supplies increase the Government on further measures to improve the Groups operating and capital costs which affect the Groups financial performance, financial performance.
com 49 Directors Report Principal Risks continued Labour and community relations The dependence of certain communities on the Group for employment Risk description and the provision of services may impose restrictions on the Groups Many of the Groups employees are represented by labour unions under exibility in taking certain operating decisions which could have a material various collective labour agreements.
Negotiations of wages may become adverse affect on the Groups financial position.
Services provided to more difficult in times of higher commodity prices and consequently higher communities may also be loss-making and require capital investment profits in the mining industry, as labour unions may seek wage increases and thereby adversely impacting the Groups cash ows.
other forms of additional compensation.
In addition, the Groups employees may seek wage increases outside of the collective labour agreements and Action labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
A full engagement strategy with community representatives, unions and The Group operates in locations where it is the major employer and may employees operates within the Group which aims to address concerns also provide a range of services to the local community such as heat and raised by different stakeholders.
The Group also has an extensive social power.
Community expectations are typically complex with the potential programme for its employees and their dependents.
The Group has for multiple inconsistent stakeholder views that may be difficult to resolve.
succeeded in raising tariffs for certain of the services it provides to communities with the objective ultimately achieving market rates.
Impact The Group works closely with the Government on social matters, which Poor employee relations inuenced by internal and external factors could has included the transfer of certain social assets to Government ownership result in an unstable workforce that disrupts operations or seeks wage and management.
Further details of the Groups social programme are set increases and other forms of compensation, having a material adverse out in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 53. affect on the Groups financial performance.
In 2013, labour costs at Kazakhmys Mining rose by 7%.
The disability benets obligation within the employee benets provision is also linked to current wage rates.
Reserves and resources Risk description Action Kazakhmys ore reserves and mineral resources for operating mines and The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources are published in development projects are largely based on the estimation method for ore accordance with the criteria of the JORC Code and can be found on reserves and mineral resources established by the former Soviet Union.
Kazakhmys engages the services of independent technical There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and experts to annually convert reserve and resource calculations for operating mineral resources, and geological, technical and economic assumptions that mines and development projects from the in-house method established by were valid at the time of estimation may change signicantly when new the former Soviet Union to the method prescribed by the JORC Code.
A re-assessment of the future economic The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources were last audited in 2010 potential of the Zhezkazgan mines has resulted in the ore reserves by an independent technical expert.
A project is ongoing to digitise selected associated with these mines being excluded from the statement of mines ore reserves which will be used in the future for determining reserves and mineral resources.
estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources and to support improved estimation of ore grades and mine planning.
Impact Changes in ore reserves and mineral resources could adversely impact mine plans and the economic viability of projects resulting in economic losses, negatively impacting the Groups financial position and performance.
Compliance risks Subsoil use rights Risk description Impact In Kazakhstan and certain other countries in which the Group operates As many of Kazakhstans subsoil use laws have been adopted relatively all subsoil ore reserves and mineral resources belong to the State.
Subsoil recently and remain untested in the countrys judicial system, the legal use rights are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must be agreed consequences of a given breach may not be predictable.
However, before the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
Rights may be non-compliance with the requirements of subsoil use contracts could terminated if the Group does not satisfy its licensing or contractual potentially lead to regulatory challenges and subsequently to fines and obligations, which may include financial commitments to State authorities litigation, and ultimately to the loss of operating licences.
The loss of any and the satisfaction of mining, development, environmental, social, of the Groups subsoil use rights could have a material adverse affect health and safety requirements.
In recent years, legislation relating to on its mining operations.
subsoil use rights has come into force in Kazakhstan, which sets out Action stricter requirements on the performance of licence obligations, The Groups management makes every effort to engage with the relevant technical documentation, work programmes and the level of goods regulatory authorities and ensure compliance with all relevant legislation and services sourced from Kazakhstan.
The authorities have also and subsoil use contracts.
The Groups procedures to ensure compliance increased their monitoring of compliance with legislation and subsoil with the terms of subsoil contracts have been updated to reect the use contract requirements.
requirements of legislation, including more active procurement of goods and services from Kazakhstan.
In 2013, 68% of goods and services used by the Mining Division were sourced from Kazakhstan.
A specialist department is also tasked with monitoring compliance with the terms of the subsoil use contracts.
50 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report Environmental compliance regulations may result in increased operating costs, additional capital Risk description investment or, in the event of the Groups non-compliance, the possibility The Group operates in an industry that is subject to numerous of fines, penalties or other actions which may adversely affect the Groups environmental laws and regulations.
As regulatory standards and financial performance and reputation.
Emissions charges in Kazakhstan have requirements continually develop, the Group may be exposed to been increased over recent years and the authorities are adopting an increased compliance costs and environmental emission charges.
increasingly robust stance on compliance with environmental standards.
Policies and measures at a national and international level to tackle climate change will increasingly affect the business, thereby presenting Action greater environmental and regulatory risks.
The Group has policies and procedures in place which set out the required operating standards for all employees.
Kazakhmys monitors its emissions Impact and in recent years has invested in reducing its environmental emissions.
A violation of environmental laws, or failure to comply with the The Group liaises with the relevant governmental bodies on environmental instructions of the relevant authorities, could lead to the suspension of matters, including the development of new legislation.
Further details of the operating licences, challenges to subsoil use mining rights, fines and environmental measures being taken by the Group are set out in the penalties, the imposition of costly compliance procedures, reputational Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 53. damage and financial loss.
New or amended environmental legislation or Financial risks Commodity prices Risk description Impact The Groups normal policy is to sell its products under contract at Commodity prices can uctuate widely and could have a material prices determined by reference to prevailing market prices on international impact on the Groups asset values, revenues, earnings, cash ows global metal exchanges.
The Groups financial results are strongly inuenced and growth prospects.
by commodity prices, in particular copper and the major by-products, gold, Action silver and zinc.
The prices for these metals are dependent on a number The Group keeps under regular review its sensitivity to uctuations in of factors, including world supply and demand and investor sentiment.
The Group does not as a matter of course hedge In particular, Kazakhmys is exposed to demand from China as described commodity prices, but may enter into a hedge programme for certain below, a major consumer of the metals which the Group produces.
commodities where the Board determines it is in the Groups interest Due to these factors, commodity prices may be subject to significant to provide greater certainty over future cash ows.
The Group adopts uctuations, which could have a positive or negative impact on the a prudent approach in its financial planning and investment appraisal, Groups financial results.
reecting the volatility in commodity prices.
Exposure to China Risk description Action In addition to the impact of Chinese demand on the pricing of Kazakhmys The Group has historically sold a significant volume of its copper cathode major products, as noted under the Commodity prices risk above, the production into Europe, as well as into China, thereby taking advantage Group makes significant physical sales to a limited number of customers in of its geographic position which provides access to both major markets.
In 2013, sales to China accounted for 57% of Kazakhmys Minings In the event that demand reduced in China for the Groups nished revenues.
The proportion of sales into China has increased following the products, Kazakhmys would allocate its sales between the two markets suspension of the Zhezkazgan smelter in 2013 which has led to the sale of to obtain the best commercial terms.
The nancing line for Bozshakol has concentrate, and Chinese sales are likely to increase further when been drawn and the Aktogay loan agreement is a committed loan facility, production commences from the two major growth projects, Bozshakol thereby providing greater certainty over the funding of the Groups and Aktogay.
The Group uses contractors and materials from China.
Kazakhmys also maintains relationships with a number is also an important source of nancing to the Group with long-term debt of international lending banks, having secured a $1 billion pre-export facilities secured totalling $4.2 billion, primarily for the development of finance facility in December 2012, and has the exibility to consider other Bozshakol and Aktogay.
sources of capital such as the bond or equity markets, if so required.
Impact Changes to Chinas scal or regulatory regimes or lower Chinese copper consumption could reduce demand in China for the Groups major products, leading the Group to direct a greater volume of sales to its other major market, Europe.
Changes to Chinese government policy on credit or cross border lending may affect the availability of Chinese bank lending to the Group.
com 51 Directors Report Principal Risks continued Acquisitions and divestments without recourse to other parties.
The disposal of assets or businesses may Risk description In the course of delivering its strategy, the Group may acquire or dispose not achieve the expected proceeds due to changing market conditions or of assets or businesses.
Corporate transactions may, however, fail to deficiencies in the sales process.
achieve the expected benefit or value to the Group.
Action Impact Specialised staff are assigned to manage corporate transactions, supported Changing market conditions, incorrect assumptions or deficiencies in where appropriate by external advisors.
Due diligence processes are due diligence processes could result in acquisitions failing to deliver the undertaken on acquisitions and material transactions are subject to Board expected benefit or value to the Group, leading to adverse financial review and approval, including ensuring the transaction is aligned with the performance and failure to meet expectations.
Acquisitions could also lead Groups strategy, consideration of the key assumptions being applied and to the Group assuming liability for the past acts of acquired businesses, the risks identied.
Liquidity Risk description Group are held predominantly in the UK in order to manage counterparty The Group is exposed to liquidity risks, including the risk that borrowing and liquidity risk.
The Board monitors the net debt level of the Group facilities are not available to meet cash requirements, and the risk that taking into consideration the expected outlook of the Groups financial financial assets cannot readily be converted to cash without the loss position, cash ows and future capital commitments.
prudent approach in managing its liquidity risk, reecting the volatility in commodity prices.
In 2013, the Group sold its ENRC investment and has Impact agreed the sale of its 50% holding in Ekibastuz GRES-1 for combined cash Failure to manage nancing risks could have a material impact on the proceeds in excess of $2.0 billion.
The Group has secured committed Groups cash ows, earnings and financial position as well as reducing the funding for the development of Bozshakol and Aktogay.
A $1.0 billion funds available to the Group for working capital, capital expenditure, pre-export finance facility was secured in December 2012 for general acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes.
corporate purposes and to provide additional liquidity during the development of the major projects which was $500 million drawn Action at 31 December 2013, the date the availability period expired.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate committed Further details are set out in the Financial Review on page 46. borrowing facilities and working capital funds.
Surplus funds within the Taxation Risk description Action As the tax legislation in Kazakhstan has been in force for a relatively short The Group makes every effort to comply with existing tax legislation, and period of time, tax risks in Kazakhstan are substantially greater than typically works closely with the Government and tax authorities in the review of found in countries with more established tax systems.
Tax law is evolving proposed amendments to tax legislation and regulation.
Further details of and is subject to different and changing interpretations, as well as the Groups tax strategy and risk management are set out in the Financial inconsistent enforcement.
Tax regulation and compliance is subject to Review on page 47. review and investigation by the authorities who may impose severe fines, penalties and interest charges.
Impact The uncertainty of interpretation, application and the evolution of tax laws create a risk of additional and substantial payments of tax by the Group, which could have a material adverse affect on the Groups cash ows, financial performance and position.
52 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013
