Strategic Report Risk Management Overview Risk management The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed 0DQDJLQJ RXU ULVN to strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the 7KH LGHQWLFDWLRQ DQG PDQDJHPHQW RI ULVNV Audit Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the DQG RSSRUWXQLWLHV DFURVV WKH URXS DUH LQWHJUDO Groups risk management framework and the Projects Assurance WR WKH URXSV VWUDWHJLF REMHFWLYHV 7KH DUH Committee having delegated authority for providing assurance YLWDO LQ SURWHFWLQJ WKH URXSV EXVLQHVVHV on the Groups major growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The Board has approved a formalised but pragmatic Group risk SHRSOH DQG UHSXWDWLRQ management framework.
This framework is designed to provide assurance that risks are identied and managed in a manner The Groups approach to internal control is business risk driven, appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
It comprises risk with emphasis given to operational, compliance and financial risks.
identication, assessment and management processes, Management have continued to develop the Groups risk evaluation together with risk response and monitoring activities.
process, with enhanced risk proling exercises undertaken by The Group Risk Manager coordinates the risk assessment operating businesses to identify, evaluate and control risk.
Further and identication activities, and facilitates the development of details of the Groups approach to internal control are set out in appropriate responses to identied risks.
Details of the process the Governance Framework section on pages 66 and 67. for identifying and managing the Groups risks are set out below and further information on the risks identied with mitigating actions, where relevant, are set out in the Principal Risks section on pages 48 to 52.
Risk governance structure Board oversight Assurance Internal audit programme Internal audit Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and department risk management.
Approves overall Group risk appetite Assesses management assurance processes Audit Committee Group Health, Safety and Remuneration Committee Advises on the Reviews the adequacy and Environment Committee Establishes a remuneration adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups Reviews reports of policy for the Groups effectiveness of internal control system significant health, safety senior management which systems to manage and environmental enables them to share in Reviews reports on business risk risks and actions being the long-term success of significant risks and controls taken to remove or the Group without Receives and reviews mitigate them encouraging excessive reports from internal audit risk-taking Identication, assessment and mitigation Risk proling Site assessment Risk proling exercises are conducted by Risk assessments of key sites conducted operational management in conjunction with by the Group Risk Manager and the Group Risk Manager to identify, assess independent experts and control business risks 18 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report R e s p o n s e y f i t n e d I M a n For more information see pages 48 Principal Risks 60 Governance Framework Risk prole Once the Groups significant risks have been identied, Risk management framework each risk is then assessed by likelihood of occurrence and impact on the Group.
Each risk is then placed on to the Group risk map and regularly reviewed to ensure accurate representation as to its probability and impact on the Group.
There are also other risks which have been identied by management but which are not considered as one of the Groups significant risks at the current time.
These risks are also placed on to the Group risk map but are identied as risks being closely monitored by management.
A graphic representation of the Group risk map is shown below.
Operational risks Kazakhmys operations, financial results and reputation may be adversely affected by a number of internal and external factors impacting its businesses and employees.
The following risks represent the significant operational risks identied by management: Health and safety Business interruption Political risk New projects Change management Labour, mining equipment and supplies How we prole our risk reporting Labour and community relations Reserves and resources 3 Compliance risks Kazakhmys reputation and financial results may be adversely affected by its failure to comply with regulatory and statutory requirements.
The following risks represent the significant compliance risks identied by management: 2 Subsoil use rights Environmental compliance Financial risks Kazakhmys operations and financial results may be adversely affected by the Groups financial strategy and changes in the 1 global economy.
The following risks represent the significant financial risks identied by management: Commodity prices Exposure to China Acquisitions and divestments 0 Liquidity risk 12 3 Probability Taxation A full description of our principal risks, including a detailed significant risks Closely monitored risks description, impact and mitigation actions can be found on pages 48 to 52. www.
