KCOM Group PLC Risk management Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Effective risk management is seen as key to the KCOM Group and central to what we do We work hard to protect ourbusiness but Each potential audit area is assessed according agreeing actions relating to any new risks that believe also that by anticipating and managing to the risk associated with it and the level of have been identified.
The Committee prepares our risks effectively we are able to operate assurance already in place: this then enables a report for the Board after each meeting.
the audit to be appropriately prioritised and built into the audit plan as necessary.
Audit Committee We have a Risk team within the Group, which has The membership and attendance at Committee specific responsibility for matters relating to legal The way in which the work of internal audit meetings during the year is shown on page 39. risk, health, safety and environmental risk, internal fitsinto the risk management framework audit, insurance, governance andall matters isshown on the opposite page.
The Audit Committee meets three times a relating to standards and compliance.
yearand is chaired by Martin Towers, who has Responsibilities in relation to risk significant recent financial experience.
He is a As a Group, we aim to identify, evaluate and management fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants manage the risks facing the business, rather The Board in England and Wales and has held a number of than try to eliminate all risk.
We recognise that The Board has overall responsibility for deciding senior finance roles, including working as Group our internal control systems can provide only the acceptable level of risk that the Group may Finance Director at Kelda Group PLC until 2008. reasonable and not absolute assurance take to achieve its objectives.
It is responsible The Board considers therefore that he has the against material misstatement or loss.
also for ensuring that the Group maintains relevant financial experience to fulfil the role sound internal control and risk management ofChairman of the Audit Committee.
Risk management framework systems, as well as reviewing the effectiveness Our risk management framework enables of those systems.
In order to do this, the Board The meetings are also attended by the ustoidentify, assess, measure, manage receives regular reports from senior management, Executive Directors, the Finance Director for andmonitor any risks which may prevent the internal audit team and the external Group Services, the Company Secretary, the thebusiness from meeting its objectives.
The auditors, via the Audit Committee, on the Head of Internal Audit and representatives framework has been developed in accordance effectiveness of the systems of internal control from the external auditors.
The external with guidance from the Financial Reporting and risk management.
The Board is satisfied auditors meet also with individual members Council and provides us with a single picture that the systems are embedded within the ofthe Audit Committee during the year ofthe threats, uncertainties and opportunities day-to-day activities of the business and cover without the other attendees present.
This enables the Board and senior all material controls, including financial, management to make appropriate decisions operational and compliance controls and that The internal auditors report to the Committee to limit and control the impact that these risks the Group continues to be compliant with the at each meeting on the adequacy and may have on our goals and objectives.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance effectiveness of the financial, operational and Code relating to internal control.
compliance controls in place across the Group.
Internal audit The internal and external audit teams work Our internal audit team consists of two Risk Committee closely together to ensure that all key risk areas qualified accountants, both with a Big Four The Risk Committee consists of senior are covered and that the work performed by background.
The internal audit plan is linked management from across the Group and one team feeds into the work of the other.
closely to the risk management framework with meets bi-monthly to consider all types of risk.
Theexternal auditors report also to the Audit audits designed to give assurance around the The Committee is responsible for reviewing Committee any material risks identified during key risk areas identified through the framework.
progress in mitigating risks and discussing and their interim review and the full year audit.
In the year under review, the Audit Committee considered the following significant matters in relation to the financial statements: Matter How this was addressed Accounting under the IAS 19 standard The assumptions and rationale were discussed and agreed as reasonable.
in relation to employee benefits and the assumptions made in relation to this.
The capitalisation of internal project costs.
The Group has a clear policy in relation to the capitalisation of internal costs which has been applied consistentlyto project costs in the year.
The reasonableness of the approach was discussed and approved.
The impairment analysis for the cash-generating The assumptions made were reviewed and agreed as reasonable.
units for disclosure in the report and accounts.
The classification of costs as exceptional.
These were discussed and it was noted that there was a clear policy in place in relation to the classification of costs asexceptional and that this had been consistently followed.
indd 24 6 20 2013 11:15:24 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Our risk management process Risk identification Risks may be identified in a variety of ways: Each year the Audit Committee also: by anyone within the business: seeks the view of the external auditors on any through our whistle-blowing process: or accounting judgements made in the year: through external or internal audits.
considers the consistency and appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted: reviews the financial statements of the Group and the clarity of the disclosures Auditing risk Managing risk made, although the ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and financial statements remains with the Board: Risk investigation monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Risk recording If the risk is auditable, it will be added internal audit team, considers and approves The risk will be added to the risk to the internal audit plan which is the internal audit plan, the resourcing of the register and rated for probability approved by the Audit Committee team and the adequacy of management andimpact.
responses to the audit issues raised: reviews the adequacy of the whistle-blowing procedures in place to enable employees and Risk ownership Issue ownership third parties to raise concerns in confidence, as All risks are assigned a senior Any audit issues raised are assigned well as the effectiveness and independence of management owner who is responsible a senior management owner who any investigations undertaken as a result of for the mitigation of the risk to an determines an action plan and such concerns being raised: acceptable level.
The mitigation plan timescales to mitigate the issue.
is documented on the risk register.
reviews the procedures in place for the detection of fraud and the prevention ofbribery across the Group: and Mitigation monitoring Issue reporting The risk registers across the Group oversees the relationship with the external Audit issues and management are reviewed and updated by the auditors, as noted in more detail on page 26. responses arereported to the Audit relevant senior management Committee three times a year.
The Committees Terms of Reference are in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Guidance on Mitigation monitoring Risk reporting Terms of Reference for Audit Committees.
Copies Progress against action plans is The risk registers are collated and of the Terms of Reference are available from the monitored closely and reported reviewed by the Risk Committee Company Secretary and are on our website at tothe Audit Committee at each three times a year to check for www.
meeting until the issue has consistency in ratings and to beenclosed.
Board reporting The Audit The risk registers are Committee reports reported three times a tothe Board after year to the Board.
indd 25 6 20 2013 11:15:24 AM KCOM Group PLC Risk management continued Annual report and accounts 2012 13 The relationship with the external auditors this, the external auditors provided services to Area Change in Why is it important?
What are we doing to mitigate the risk?
The Audit Committee is responsible for the value of 21,000 2012: 59,000 relating overseeing the relationship with the external to tax services and pensions advice.
In both levelofrisk auditors to ensure that the external auditors areas, the auditors were considered the most Risks continuing from last year continue to be independent, objective and appropriate firm to perform the work.
effective in their work, as well as considering The level of service we provide to our customers is central We have continued to make improvements to the customer operations part of our Customer the re-appointment of the auditors each year.
Financial risk management to everything that we do and is a key differentiator business, aligning customers to the right teams and investing in our systems to service Each part of our business produces an annual between us and our competitors.
enable us to provide amore efficient and seamless service.
anddelivery During the year the UK Corporate Governance budget which is reviewed by senior management Code was updated to include a new requirement and ultimately approved by the Board.
for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit Alonger-term five-year plan is also in place People continue to be our most valuable asset and In the year we have successfully recruited key people at all levels of the Recruitment and contract out to tender at least every ten years.
which is updated annually and approved by thesuccess ofthe Group is dependent on recruiting and organisation and have attracted significant talent to the Group.
We have retention of the It is the intention of the Audit Committee the Board to enable them to have a clear retaining the right people in all areas of our business.
continued also to invest in training in relation to leadership capability and rightpeople tocomply with this requirement and the longer-term view of financial projections.
developing our core values throughout the Group to ensure that our high transitional arrangements put forward by calibrepeople remain with us.
We also prepare a quarterly forecast and performance against budget and quarterly Our business model means that we are dependent on All of our partnerships are monitored closely by dedicated teams and we have Reliance on key  LLP were appointed forecast is monitored at monthly senior significant partnerships, such as with BT, Phoenix IT Group, astrong relationship with each partner, supported by appropriate contractual asauditors in 2006 following a comprehensive management meetings and reported to, third party Cisco, Avaya, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft and IBM.
We have also multiple partners in key risk areas to mitigate the risk tender process.
The Audit Committee has andreviewed by, the Board each month.
partners and inthe event of failure of one partner.
reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit Furtherinformation about the financial suppliers process in the year through the reports received riskmanagement policies in place, and in from the external auditors and the close working particular the way in which credit risk, liquidity It is essential to many of our customers that we can We have been focusing on business continuity for a number of years and have Business of the internal audit team with the external risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk continue to provide service even when a significant achieved the BS25999 Business Continuity standard in key parts of the Group, which auditors.
The Committee has concluded that are managed, is in note 27 to the accounts.
It is therefore vital that we have we are now working on converting to the new ISO 22301 Business Continuity standard.
theexternal audit process was effective.
comprehensive business continuity plans in place which We undertake regular tests on our plans and feedback from those tests is used to Controls around consolidation have been tested and can be implemented easily continually improve and update the plans as necessary.
In addition  LLP The basis of consolidation for the financial whennecessary.
haveformally confirmed their continued statements is detailed in note 2 to the accounts.
independence to the Audit Committee and the Strong controls are in place around the process measures they have taken to ensure that they for preparing consolidated accounts.
The work Much of our business relates to communications networks We are continually working to improve the security and resilience of our systems Security and comply with best practice and professional and ofconsolidation is performed by experienced, and handling data, both for our customers and internally.
and have held the ISO 27001 Information Security Management standard since resilience of IT, regulatory requirements in this area.
The qualified accountants and a review of the Itis therefore essential that our information systems, 2007.
All of our employees are required to undertake mandatory online training networks Committee believes that audit partner rotation consolidation forms part of the audit work networks and data are secure and resilient.
relating to information security and the Risk Committee considers information anddata is key to ensuring continued independence and performed by our external auditors.
security at each meeting and monitors the ongoing mitigation of any specific risks objectivity by reducing the risk of familiarity identified.
During the year we appointed a Head of Data Governance to have while retaining the detailed understanding of Principal risks and uncertainties specific responsibility for the quality and handling of data across the Group and the business which the external auditors have As with all businesses, we are affected by a this will continue to be a key area of focus in the future.
gained over time: in the light of this the current number of risks and uncertainties, of which audit partner, Ian Morrison, was appointed to some are beyond our control.
The table on the Increased risks this year the audit in 2011. right shows the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material adverse effect on Increasingly our customers are requesting compliance with We have a dedicated Standards and Compliance team that has a significant Increasing We have an Engagement of External Auditors the Group and have been identified through the new standards, particularly those in the public sector.
amount of experience in interpreting, implementing and maintaining standards.
compliance policy which covers the selection of firms to risk management framework.
The team has worked hard in the year to ensure that we have achieved compliance requirements perform non-audit work.
This policy excludes in the required areas and this work will continue as more requests are received.
We from customers the auditors from providing certain services, This is not an exhaustive list and there may be have also a comprehensive standards audit programme to ensure that we continue such as internal audit services, litigation support, risks and uncertainties of which currently we to meet the requirements of the standards going forward.
remuneration advice and legal advice services.
are unaware, or which are believed to be All other non-audit work is assessed separately immaterial, which could have an adverse During the year there has been an increase in the amount Our focus continues to be on providing the best value for money and the best Competition in and is awarded to the firm considered best effect on the business.
of competition in the business services market in the customer service in order to retain our customers.
The fibre deployment in Hull the Hulland East suited to perform the work.
Any such work with Hulland EastYorkshire area.
To date the impact of this andEast Yorkshire continues, delivering superfast broadband through a fee greater than 25 per cent of the annual Yorkshire area has beenminimal.
Thishas been extremely well received and the deployment will audit fee must be approved by the Chairman continueover the coming year.
ofthe Audit Committee before the external auditors may be appointed.
During the year the fee for the external audit of the Group and its subsidiaries, along with other services pursuant to legislation, was 228,000 2012: 228,000.
In addition to 26 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 26 6 20 2013 11:15:24 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Area Change in Why is it important?
levelofrisk Risks continuing from last year The level of service we provide to our customers is central We have continued to make improvements to the customer operations part of our Customer to everything that we do and is a key differentiator business, aligning customers to the right teams and investing in our systems to service between us and our competitors.
anddelivery People continue to be our most valuable asset and In the year we have successfully recruited key people at all levels of the Recruitment and thesuccess ofthe Group is dependent on recruiting and organisation and have attracted significant talent to the Group.
We have retention of the retaining the right people in all areas of our business.
continued also to invest in training in relation to leadership capability and rightpeople developing our core values throughout the Group to ensure that our high calibrepeople remain with us.
Our business model means that we are dependent on All of our partnerships are monitored closely by dedicated teams and we have Reliance on key significant partnerships, such as with BT, Phoenix IT Group, astrong relationship with each partner, supported by appropriate contractual third party Cisco, Avaya, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft and IBM.
We have also multiple partners in key risk areas to mitigate the risk partners and inthe event of failure of one partner.
suppliers It is essential to many of our customers that we can We have been focusing on business continuity for a number of years and have Business continue to provide service even when a significant achieved the BS25999 Business Continuity standard in key parts of the Group, which continuity incidenthas occurred.
comprehensive business continuity plans in place which We undertake regular tests on our plans and feedback from those tests is used to have been tested and can be implemented easily continually improve and update the plans as necessary.
Much of our business relates to communications networks We are continually working to improve the security and resilience of our systems Security and and handling data, both for our customers and internally.
and have held the ISO 27001 Information Security Management standard since resilience of IT, Itis therefore essential that our information systems, 2007.
All of our employees are required to undertake mandatory online training networks networks and data are secure and resilient.
relating to information security and the Risk Committee considers information anddata security at each meeting and monitors the ongoing mitigation of any specific risks identified.
During the year we appointed a Head of Data Governance to have specific responsibility for the quality and handling of data across the Group and this will continue to be a key area of focus in the future.
Increased risks this year Increasingly our customers are requesting compliance with We have a dedicated Standards and Compliance team that has a significant Increasing new standards, particularly those in the public sector.
compliance The team has worked hard in the year to ensure that we have achieved compliance requirements in the required areas and this work will continue as more requests are received.
We from customers have also a comprehensive standards audit programme to ensure that we continue to meet the requirements of the standards going forward.
During the year there has been an increase in the amount Our focus continues to be on providing the best value for money and the best Competition in of competition in the business services market in the customer service in order to retain our customers.
The fibre deployment in Hull the Hulland East Hulland EastYorkshire area.
To date the impact of this andEast Yorkshire continues, delivering superfast broadband through Yorkshire area has beenminimal.
Thishas been extremely well received and the deployment will continueover the coming year.
