Strategic report Principal risks and KPIs Risk Description Whilst our business will always be It is also partially offset by opportunities Market cycles subject to economic cycles, market for consolidation in our highly The Groups broad base risk is reduced by the diversity fragmented markets.
Typically, even helps to mitigate against of our markets, both in terms of where we are the clear leader, we geography and market segment.
still have a relatively small share of the risk of downturn in our the market.
Our ability to exploit markets these opportunities through bolt-on acquisitions is reflected in our track record of growing sales, and doing so profitably, across market cycles.
It is in the nature of our business Some of the controls we have in place, Tendering and that we continually assess and particularly at the crucial stage of management manage technical, and other tendering of contracts, are set out operational, risks.
of contracts Project risk is managed throughout the life of a project from the tendering stage to completion We recognise the risks associated These include various country risks, Expansion with acquisitions and expanding including the challenges of operating Our long-term growth into new regions and aim to within different business and safety manage these to acceptable cultures.
track record is built on a levels.
combination of organic When considering an acquisition, we try to get to know a target company, often growth and acquisitions working in joint venture, to understand the operational and cultural differences and potential synergies.
Keller is made up of businesses It is essential that, as we continue Safety of varying sizes operating around to grow and move into new regions, The construction industry poses the world, often in challenging we can be sure that our approach to significant safety challenges, but environments.
safety is equally rigorous, no matter whereabouts in the world, or on which we do not view injuries as being projects, we are working.
inevitable The risk of losing, or not being We pride ourselves in having some of People able to attract, good people the best professional and skilled people The accumulation of is key.
in the industry, who are motivated by our culture and the opportunities for knowledge and experience career growth.
is essential to helping our customers to find the best solutions 10 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Controls and mitigation KPIs Strategy of geographic diversification: Revenue growth compared with operations in over 40 countries market growth Broad customer base.
Definition and method of calculation Services used across all industry segments: Year-on-year sales growth including infrastructure, industrial, commercial, acquisitions in local currency compared with residential and environmental.
growth in the total regional construction market.
As our work occurs at the start of the construction cycle, our revenue is a leading indicator for the construction market, whereas market comparators are based on the lagging indicator construction put in place.
Risk Management Framework defines skills, experience of a particular type of Operating margin Minimum Standards in the control of project project and their workload.
Definition and method of calculation risk.
Establishment of centres of excellence.
Operating profit before exceptional items Risk-based tender approval process, with Formal handover meetings at each stage of expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Formal daily reports generated and reviewed Training for staff in the typical risk issues they for each contract in progress.
Weekly cost may face when tendering for jobs, negotiating reports produced for projects and reviewed contracts and executing work.
Legal review of unusual or onerous contract Periodic reviews of poorly performing terms.
contracts to establish lessons learned with Project staff selected on the basis of their the results communicated to all relevant staff.
Moving into new geographic markets often Cross-border support and sharing Return on net operating assets involves following customers with whom we of expertise support the transfer of Definition and method of calculation have previously worked.
Operating profit before exceptional items We deploy trusted and experienced Acquisition targets are usually well known expressed as a percentage of average net personnel to establish and grow our to Keller.
operating assets including goodwill acquired business in new regions.
We have thorough due diligence through acquisitions.
Robust operating rules, including our Think processes, mostly undertaken by our own Net operating assets excludes net debt, Safe framework and Code of Conduct, management.
tax balances, deferred consideration and net apply wherever in the world we are Individual integration plans reflect the defined benefit pension liabilities.
unique character of each acquisition.
Our safety framework, Think Safe, Accident Frequency Rate AFR incorporates our Safety Goal, Principles, Definition and method of calculation Policy and Minimum Standards.
Accident frequency per 100,000 man hours.
All business units undertake an annual safety assessment.
From these, safety improvement plans are developed and implemented.
Regular directors and managers safety tours reinforce the importance of safety.
We aim to be a responsible employer for We aim to treat our employees with Staff turnover rate whom our employees are proud to work.
Definition and method of calculation We provide: Managerial, professional and technical staff excellent training and development leaving in the period, other than through opportunities: redundancy or normal retirement, expressed experience on challenging and highas a percentage of employees in this profile projects: category.
opportunities for international career growth: and good engagement and two-way communications.
