Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 36 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS OPPORTUNITY IDENTIFIED Development group reviews the marketplace: decide on which projects to target Approach clients with an expression of interest inbidding Focus on quality clients, projects which will receive FID, industriesand locations where Kentz can be competitive orhasastrategic advantage DAVID BELDOTTI, CHAIRMAN, RISK REVIEW COMMITTEE BID PREPARATION Receive detailed enquiry documents from clients drawings andspecifications Site visits to confirm scope of work Detailed calculations performed by estimation team including riskcontingency RISK REVIEW All tenders are subjected to hierarchical reviews Highest risk tenders reviewed by the Risk Review ADRIAN GRIFFIN Committee GROUP COMMERCIAL, CONTRACTS & RISKOFFICER The Risk Review Committee RRC provides support to the BID SUBMISSION, NEGOTIATIONS & AWARDS Board by establishing and Submission of bid overseeing the Groups risk Negotiations of scope and terms of conditions Sign contract appetite in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The RRC monitors risks across the enterprise and the controls in place to manage the key risks.
The RRC is regularly EXECUTION engaged in the prospects being Regular project reviews, functional oversight, followed, how those prospects peer reviews Change management are converted into contracts and Project control tools and skilled, experienced maintains an oversight role on resources deployed to execute projects theperformance of the more significant current projects.
The RRC also reviews the portfolio of projects in terms of industry, location, work type and clients.
COMPLETION Ensure there is a clear definition of completion in the contracts Quality assurance during execution Deploy specialist capability and systems to complete projects Capture of lessons learned Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 37 REVIEW OF 2013 OUTLOOK FOR 2014 The Group continues to embed risk management In view of the rise of the importance of computer networks processes within the day to day operations across the for the Group, business continuity planning will be an area areas of operation and to heighten awareness of key risks of focus for internal stakeholders during 2014.
Given the so that appropriate mitigation is implemented.
geographies where the Group operates, protecting the Groups reputation remains a significant area for constant The increase in backlog from US$2.6bn at the end of 2012 attention with internal audit and compliance working to to US$3.1bn at the end of 2013 meant a significant number ensure all employees are aware of and adhering to the of projects were tendered and won during the year.
The code of business conduct.
New contract opportunities are tenders meeting certain criteria were subjected to a source of bringing risk onto the business and the RRC will thorough risk review sessions involving corporate, function continue to ensure those opportunities are aligned with the and operational executives refer also to page 7.
While other companies report resource constraints the Valerus brings a number of new operating countries in Latin Group successfully staffed its projects in all locations and America with new languages, working practices, political also hired senior level talent to enhance its functional and and business conditions.
In addition, with manufacturing operational capability.
The Group continued its practice of facilities and a large workforce in the United States, this up-skilling its staff to meet future challenges.
mayexpose the Group to more risk of litigation.
The Groups global insurance programme for 2014 was adapted The Group established new operations in Latin America to address these risks.
Valerus will progressively adopt the and experienced a sustained performance by the Kentz Risk Management Procedures, complementing their engineering business RNE which was acquired in 2011. existing practices and procedures.
There were periods of widespread industrial action in a small number of locations most notably in South Africa.
The Group overcame competitive pressures in certain areas to successfully win work particularly in the Middle East.
There were no known ethical breaches and all licences and accreditations were successfully renewed.
For more information, please visit: www.
