Business review Governance Accounts 25 BUSINESS REVIEW Risks Given the scale of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks is subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has sufficient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and strategies.
During the year the Board has also considered the nature and level of risk that we are prepared to accept in order to deliver our business strategies and have reviewed and approved our internal statement of risk appetite.
This describes both the current and desired levels of acceptable risk, supported by high level qualitative risk statements, ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level desired by the Board.
The Corporate governance report on page 42 describes the systems and processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board considers that the principal risks to achieving its strategic aims are set out below.
Easier Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation d d Making it easier for We fail to deliver demand and value Across our markets we are committed to ensuring that our stores and online through the easier initiatives due to a fulfilment channels are aligned with our desire to optimise our customers our customers to improve lack of rigorous change management retail experience.
To support this we continue to evolve and innovate across their home disciplines, capabilities and resources.
our product ranges, formats and customer offer.
Changes are, however, only implemented once we have completed an appropriate level of planning and testing, relative to the risk, and we have ensured that the assumptions and insight, that support the introduction of new products or services, will deliver the benefits to both our customers and our shareholders prior to their introduction.
Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation d d Giving our customers We fail to invest in the systems and Across our businesses we recognise both the threats and opportunities supply chain platforms necessary to presented by omnichannel retailing and are taking the necessary steps to more ways to shop maintain either competitive parity or ensure we remain competitive in our respective markets.
This is supported advantage, amongst online or by a significant investment programme across our systems and supply omnichannel competitors.
This includes significant investments in: Warehouse management, forecasting and replenishment technologies to ensure we maximise operational agility and optimise the flow of product in order to meet customer demand.
Optimising distribution and logistics platforms to ensure we can deliver products via the most efficient routes to market.
The delivery of leading edge web architectures and platforms to provide a compelling online offer including the options to deliver enhanced click, pay and collect functionality, across smart phone and tablet based applications.
Common Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation d d Building innovative We fail to unlock the potential to The development of common brands and synergies remains a priority generate further shareholder value across the organisation.
To ensure that we maximise the opportunities common brands through the optimisation of combined to deliver the differentiation of product ranges with competitors, through purchasing and commercial synergies, innovative and exclusive product, and to increase and maximise scale while retaining accountability at our efficiencies we: Operating Companies.
Are implementing high quality analytic technologies to ensure that we understand our buying behaviours, habits and product insight across all of our businesses and that we are able to identify specific opportunities to drive the optimal, and most profitable, outcomes from our common buying decisions.
Have set up a common projects team to identify the optimum opportunities for implementing common products across the Group.
com 26 BUSINESS REVIEW Risks continued Expand Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation d d Growing our presence Our investments in new store formats Despite the ongoing challenges of global austerity programmes and and customer proposition strategies their impact on consumer confidence, we are committed to re-investing in existing markets fail to stimulate increased consumer in our mature markets to maintain market share and to ensure spend and do not deliver the desired market leadership.
return to top line like-for-like growth We continue to invest in our existing store portfolio whilst seeking to in our mature markets.
minimise its cost base and optimise sales densities.
Where there are opportunities to expand and innovate we will do so using a combination of existing and new formats, and try low risk market entry and new flexible store format strategies based on the utilisation of current Operating Company skills and resources.
Uncertainty surrounding the resilience With continuing market volatility and uncertainty across all of the of the global economy and volatility in economies in which we operate, particularly within the Eurozone, we the Eurozone continues to impact both continue to monitor potential exposures and risks and provide effective consumer confidence and the long risk management solutions to both our businesses and our strategic term sustainability and capabilities of suppliers.
These include: our supplier base.
The provision of supply chain finance programmes to support strategic suppliers.
Support from a strong portfolio of international banking partners with the strongest short term credit rating that provide flexibility, diversification of cash holdings, access to funding and reliable local retail cash and card payment processing services.
An appropriate and prudent mix of hedging policies, cash deposits and debt financing to minimise the impact of foreign exchange currency volatility on the Group.
Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation d d Expand in new and We lack the necessary agility We continually review and assess opportunities for expansion, in terms of and capability to identify, assess both online and bricks and mortar retail, across all of the territories and developing markets and take advantage of potential regions in which we operate.
opportunities for overseas expansion Country and market entry strategies are based on the application of a and market penetration strategies proven operating model and supported by the Operating Company with the for existing markets.
most relevant experience, capabilities and capacity to successfully lead a market entry strategy.
We also ensure that any proposed acquisition or market entry strategy is subject to an appropriate level of challenge and due diligence from both the Group Executive and specialist Group functions which may include the Tax, Treasury, Legal, Group Finance and Group Risk and Internal Audit functions.
This due diligence is also supported by external and independent advisors when necessary.
One Team Strategic aim Group risks Mitigation d d Developing leaders We do not make the necessary Across our businesses we are developing our talent, building our investment in our people to ensure that leadership capability and connecting our people through intelligent and connecting people we have the appropriate calibre of staff, networks.
Specific examples of this include: skills and experience.
The continued investment in development of our senior leaders through the Kingfisher One Academy, including the 2020 Leadership Programme and the development of networks across our businesses.
Focused development activities for our store-based colleagues, including the roll out of national apprenticeship schemes across our UK and French businesses, and an increased focus on how we support and recognise the role of our customer advisors across the organisation.
Recognition of the importance of ensuring a constant flow of developing talent through structured graduate and management trainee programmes, providing sustainable career development paths supported by new and innovative reward and bonus frameworks.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 27 Operational Risks Risk Mitigation d d Pricing A lack of perceived price Significant investment in pricing to reinforce and communicate our competitiveness, particularly when value credentials.
compared to more discount based This is supported by: or online competitors, would affect The use of improved customer insight and analytical tools to optimise our ability to maintain or grow product ranging and pricing strategies market share.
Increased margin flexibility through partnerships with strategic vendors and the leveraging of Group buying opportunities More targeted use of online and mass media tools to communicate and reinforce price perception for example, price comparison websites, such as kitchen-compare.
Risk Mitigation d d Key supplier resilience Key product suppliers lacking the We continue to support our strategic suppliers through a combination of necessary resilience or disaster relationship management, and ongoing supplier vulnerability assessments, and continuity recovery capabilities to manage the supported by supplier financing programmes where appropriate.
impact of on-going global economic We also proactively look to ensure continuity of supply through the volatility or the increasing impacts of expansion of our own brand programmes and dual sourcing strategies extreme weather cycles and patterns where possible and commercially viable.
On-going investment in our on their operations and extended sourcing offices outside of the Far East, notably in Poland and Turkey, supply chains.
also provides increased flexibility for our sourcing strategies.
Risk Mitigation d d Health & safety We fail to maintain a safe environment With 78,000 employees and millions of customers visiting our stores for our customers and store colleagues each week, robust health and safety systems are a priority.
The Board is which results in a major incident or committed to creating and sustaining a safe environment for both our staff fatality that is directly attributable to and customers and regularly reviews and challenges Health & Safety a failure in our Health & Safety performance, standards and targets across our businesses.
As regulatory requirements vary from country to country, each operating company is required to designate a director with specific responsibility for health and safety.
This person is then responsible for ensuring that a written health and safety policy is communicated and that appropriate health and safety arrangements are in place to protect our employees and customers and that we comply with local regulatory requirements.
Compliance is monitored across our businesses through a programme of self-certification and Health & Safety audits, with issues reported through local Audit Committees and escalated to the Group Executive or Board where necessary.
Risk Mitigation d d Environmental or ethical Impact on Kingfishers reputation Both employees and suppliers working for or with Kingfisher must conduct and brand arising from a major themselves according to our minimum standards of ethics and behaviours failure environmental or ethical failure, a as defined by our Code of Conduct.
Responsibility for compliance with significant corporate fraud or material our Code of Conduct rests with each Group Operating Company Chief non-compliance with legislative or Executive and appropriate resources are available to our businesses to regulatory requirements resulting in ensure that both staff and suppliers are aware of, and comply with, the punitive or custodial procedures.
code and our businesses can manage the legislative or regulatory challenges presented by their respective jurisdictions.
Our commitment to sustainability remains a key value for Kingfisher and across the organisation we continue to ensure that we engage with our key environmental partners and stakeholders to ensure that, where possible, we integrate sustainable practices into our business models and our property, logistics and distribution strategies.
