Risk management P rincipal risks and uncertainties Laird faces the normal business risks including the retention and protection of our people and continuity of our operations, however, the following summarises the principal risks which are more distinct because of our market, industry and global footprint.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Strategic and markets Competition and market Laird operates in market sectors which are characterised Protecting our position by maintaining and extending conditions by a high level of competition between suppliers a broad customer base and monitoring the market to and which are driven by rapid technological change.
support a swift response to market changes Changes in market dynamics could have a material Developing the business into new and attractive adverse effect on Lairds financial condition and growth markets in line with strategic objectives prospects.
Maintaining a competitive manufacturing base Lairds competitive position may suffer were it unable to maintain customer mindshare in delivering technological Differentiating Laird with customers through our innovation in a highly competitive environment.
focus on innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed to achieve customer mindshare, and where overall Lairds products and solutions include technologies margin objectives can be maintained in which it holds intellectual property rights which may be subject to infringement, counterfeiting or Contract review and negotiation through in-house misappropriation.
Claims could be asserted against legal team and external advisers Laird that it has infringed intellectual property owned by Maintaining a robust intellectual property protection others and such claims might require Laird to incur legal programme and moving to products with a higher IP costs or face legal restrictions on selling certain products.
protected content The loss of a major contract or erosion of business with Using a range of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, a key customer, whether through competitive action or non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements to any change in strategy or ordering requirements from protect intellectual property rights customers, could have a material adverse effect on Lairds financial condition and prospects.
Developing the skills, experience and performance of employees and their relationships with customers Maturing products in large markets could lead to competitive erosion of margins and profits.
Introducing innovative new products in a timely manner to meet customer needs A highly competitive market environment and structure can drive pressures for imbalanced contractual terms which could lead to significant penalties and costs if breached.
Macro economic and During an economic downturn or delayed recovery, Monitoring of economic and political indicators political factors customers may cancel, reduce or postpone anticipated Close control and reduction of costs orders, or apply pressure to prices and margins, any of which may result in lasting changes in terms of Operational contingency plans trade pricing policies, delivery capabilities and market expectations.
Wider political factors, including regional tensions and protectionist pressures, may impact on operations or markets.
Acquisitions Laird has made and is likely to make further strategic Adherence to a robust M & A Integration process acquisitions of complementary businesses, assets and tailored to meet overall business and acquisition companies with the intention of accelerating growth objectives and strengthening and developing its market.
If such Undertaking due diligence using specialist external acquisitions cannot be successfully integrated and the partners risks managed, Lairds business, financial condition and the results of its operations may be adversely affected.
Training and staff retention measures for qualified engineers or other technically qualified personnel Laird may also set up operations in new markets and or customers or geographies which could fail to meet business case expectations leading to lost investment or reduced Obtaining warranties and indemnities from vendors profits.
where possible 52 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 52 07 03 2014 19:16 Risk description Potential impact Mitigating activities Brand management While the One Laird cultural transition programme Proactive customer communication and relationship is key to the delivery of strategic goals, it may also management bring associated risk during the transition process from Robust and consistent marketing existing brands within Laird, or new acquisitions, which may have strong customer recognition.
Planned revenue Brand strategy prioritisation within acquisition could be impacted if brand loyalty is not successfully integration plans transferred.
Operations China operational Laird faces continued pressure on Chinese labour costs, Processes improvements to increase productivity concentration particularly with reference to base pay and increasing Increased automation social costs.
The result of these pressures may lead to Labour costs reduced profits or other adverse effects on the business.
Developing options for relocation of certain Changing regulatory, manufacturing operations processes to Western Laird may encounter difficulty in managing operations political and industrial China and other areas due to unfavourable political or economic factors or environment unexpected legal or regulatory changes.
If the effects Maintaining professional relationships with of this instability disrupt Lairds operations in this region, authorities Lairds operating results may be adversely affected.
Supply chain and raw Lairds ability to deliver according to market demands Supplier quality control, vetting and review materials largely depends on obtaining timely and adequate Developing multi-supplier options where possible supplies of components and raw materials.
Supply chain business contingency plans Failure in the supply chain could interrupt Lairds product supply, limit sales and increase costs.
Processes for raw material stock management The raw materials used include commodities such as Relationship management with key suppliers copper, beryllium copper, steel, aluminium, silver and zinc all of which may be subject to price volatility.
This may impact Lairds operating profits.
Product risks Lairds reputation and brand value may be adversely Product and operations quality control processes affected due to real or alleged failures in its products Contractual controls to limit liability where possible and solutions.
Proactive customer relationship management Operational continuity One or more of Lairds main factories or sites may Risk management and recovery plans in place at site suffer major disruption such as pandemic, fire, flooding, and business unit level regulatory action, loss of IT systems or similar which Business continuity incident management processes may have an adverse effect on Lairds activities, especially where multiple manufacturing processes are IT security and back-up procedures co-located.
Any of the above may prevent Laird from Flexing production between sites fully performing its contractual obligations, potentially resulting in reputational damage and lost revenue Use of expert partners to continuously improve site and profits.
risk management controls Finance Currency exposures Laird is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by Matching local currency income with local currency virtue of its global operations and customer base.
costs Use of financial instruments to assist in the management of foreign exchange and interest rate risk, principally forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps Corporate responsibility Regulatory compliance In common with all global businesses, we face Implementation of regulatory and trade compliance complex and differing regulatory rules in all areas policies and procedures of our operations and markets, including ethical, Compliance training to provide oversight and environmental, health and safety, trade compliance, assurance on compliance risks employment and tax regulations.
A serious breach by Laird could have an adverse effect upon Lairds business Professional compliance expertise within corporate and the results of its operations may be adversely functions compliance to oversee key compliance risks affected.
Compliance monitoring and testing programmes By order of the Board David Lockwood Chief Executive 27 February 2014 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v16.
