20 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Principal Risks and Uncertainties LONMINS TOP 10 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES ARE DESCRIBED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGES TOGETHER WITH THEIR POTENTIAL IMPACT, MITIGATING STRATEGIES AND THE PERCEIVED CHANGE IN THESE RISKS SINCE THE PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEAR.
These risks have been ranked according to the magnitude of potential impact before mitigating actions.
These risks represent a snapshot of the Companys risk profile at this time.
They are not intended to represent an exhaustive list of all risks.
As the macro environment changes and country and industry circumstances evolve, new risks may arise or recede or the rankings of these risks may change according to severity and probability of occurrence.
Risk tolerance Risk tolerance is an indication of the amount of risk a company is willing to accept in order to meet its strategic objectives.
This is reflected in a companys capacity to sustain losses and in its ability to continue to meet its obligations under different trading conditions.
Lonmin has a matrix scoring system in place in terms of which risks are rated based on their likelihood and potential severity.
This severity can be measured using financial, health and safety, environmental, stakeholder or legal criteria.
As such, Lonmin measures more than just the potential financial impact of risks.
These scores are then used to escalate risks within the organisation as appropriate and prompt mitigating actions to be taken.
Safety Description Change and Safety Act commonly referred to as a At Lonmin we value our people.
We try to During 2013 there has been an improvement Section 54 stoppage.
position ourselves as an employer of choice, in the safety environment at Lonmin.
The Mitigation and provide safe jobs for both our employees number of Section 54 stoppages declared There is a clearly defined employee safety and our contractors.
However, inherent to at Lonmin decreased and, as a result, so engagement strategy, safety protocols the mining industry are risks due to unsafe too has the number of shifts lost as a and standards that are set and monitored events or conditions that can cause fatalities result of these stoppages.
We continue to regularly by the Executive Committee or injuries.
These include falls-of-ground, engage with the DMR at various levels of Exco.
The Safety & Sustainability tramming, scraping and rigging incidents, management and our relationship with the Committee oversees all safety matters.
exposure to various gases, fire, molten metal, DMR continues to improve as a result of Certain targets in the Balanced Scorecard electrocution and many other hazards.
this engagement and the various safety are designed to incentivise safe behaviour, initiatives that have been implemented Impact as discussed in more detail in the during the course of the year.
Lonmin A failure in safety could result in injury or Remuneration Implementation Report.
has one of the lowest Lost Time Injury a loss of life which would have tragic Frequency Rate LTIFR in the platinum After the strike in 2012, as part of the implications for employees, their families industry in South Africa, demonstrating production ramp up process, the Company and the local communities.
It would also the effectiveness of these initiatives.
invested many hours in safety training severely disrupt operations.
In certain Further information on Lonmins safety before re-opening operations in order to situations, these failures could result in safety achievements can be found in the minimise the risk of any safety failures, stoppages instigated by management or Strategic Report and A Deeper Look.
either underground or in the surface works, the Department of Mineral Resources as our main focus was on our people.
DMR could temporarily suspend part or A safe working environment is normally all of the operations under the Mine Health also a more productive one.
Employee relations Description Mitigation This is evident from Lonmin being a There have been significant changes in the A detailed employee relations strategy has signatory to the Deputy Presidents industrial relations landscape in the South been developed and is being implemented.
framework for Stability & Sustainability in African mining industry in the past year.
A recognition agreement has been signed the mining industry and Lonmins With the emergence of the Association of with the new majority union, AMCU.
participation in the commemoration of the Mineworkers and Construction Union AMCU Detailed induction plans are in place for Events at Marikana in August.
The Board as a significant union in the platinum AMCU shop stewards as the transition from has prioritised initiatives aimed at improving industry and a realignment in employee the National Union of Mineworkers NUM the quality of life of our employees and their support in favour of this union, new ways to AMCU as the majority union takes place.
families and the local communities in the need to be found to engage with However, Lonmin also continues to engage areas surrounding our operations.
employees and unions to ensure a safe with all trade unions including the minority At the beginning of the year AMCU became and productive working environment in unions to ensure their concerns are heard.
the majority union at Lonmin.
The rest of which all stakeholders are winners.
Notwithstanding the union engagement, our workforce are represented by NUM, there is an increased focus on rebuilding Impact Solidarity or UASA or are not unionised.
relations directly with our employees.
A volatile industrial relations environment Wage negotiations have historically characterised by mistrust and strike action Change resulted in a volatile period during which could result in disruptions to operations and The industrial relations environment has the Company attempts to balance the have a material adverse effect on the Groups improved in 2013 compared to 2012, expectations of employees and the financial position and have a negative impact however, it still remains volatile.
Lonmin is economic realities of an industry under on our employees, their families and the local working hard to rebuild trust with employees significant margin pressure.
This was clearly demonstrated and worker representatives as well as by the strike action which occurred in 2012. maintain close relationships with all unions.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 3.
Changes to the political, legal, social and economic environment, including resource nationalism Description consideration with the Bill proposing that the locally could impact long-term supply The Company is subject to the risks Minister be granted a discretion to declare agreements with our customers and give associated with conducting business in certain minerals as strategic, that the rise to concerns about security of supply South Africa including but not limited to Minister determine what percentage of from South Africa, potentially expediting changes to the countrys laws and policies strategic minerals are to be made available the growth of the recycling industry.
in connection with taxation, royalties, locally and the developmental price at which Mitigation divestment, repatriation of capital and strategic minerals are to be sold, as well as Bilateral and industry level discussions resource nationalism.
The latter is a broad the Minister being able to determine the with the DMR are ongoing with a view term that describes the situation where a conditions applicable to export permits.
In to balancing the need for the country to government attempts to assert increased addition, the Davis Commission is currently benefit more from its natural resources authority, control and ownership over the looking at the current tax regime with a view with the need to attract and retain mining natural resources located in its jurisdiction.
to determining whether additional taxes investment and jobs.
Mining companies and should be imposed on mining companies.
Resource nationalism is a global industry bodies have made representations phenomenon, not limited to any country.
Impact regarding the content of the draft MPRDA In South Africa, the threat of nationalisation The current debates in respect of resource Amendment Bill with a view to highlighting appears to have dissipated to some extent, nationalism have created policy uncertainty areas of concern and motivating for however, debate continues regarding future and this has inevitably led to a decline in amendments to the Bill.
policies relating to South Africas natural investor appetite for South African investment Change resources.
This includes debate regarding risk.
This is reflected in decreased offshore There has been a slight improvement in this the identification of strategic minerals, the investor appetite for both South African risk in 2013 from 2012.
The move away extent of beneficiation required, development equity and debt exposure.
from the concept of nationalisation in the of a state owned mining company and If some of the issues under consideration resource nationalism debate has been whether there should be increased taxation are implemented this could have a material positive.
However, many of the issues as of the South African mining industry.
adverse effect on the Groups future described above which the South African The above issues have all largely been operational performance and financial government is now trying to implement incorporated within the Mineral and position.
For example, profits could be through the draft MPRDA Amendment Petroleum Resources Development Act negatively impacted by the imposition of Bill require further consideration and, if MPRDA Amendment Bill which is currently additional taxes and revenues could be implemented in their current form, could the subject of Parliamentary debate.
In impacted by the sale of metals at discounted be negative.
particular, beneficiation is a major developmental prices.
Social licence to operate Description against our targets could impact our mining Lerato Molebatsi and another Exco member, There are a number of issues that can affect licences.
Withdrawal of our mining licences Barnard Mokwena, who is responsible for Lonmins social licence to operate.
These would have a material adverse effect on the transformation, human settlements and include Lonmins sustainability performance Groups financial position.
mining charter compliance are driving our such as our impact on the environment in strategy in these areas.
Mitigation terms of water, air and soil pollution and Social and community programmes are Change waste production, our safety record, the implemented by our Exco and monitored There has been an increase in this risk for contribution we make towards South by the Transformation Committee and the Lonmin in 2013 compared to 2012.
The Africas transformation agenda and the Board.
There is a stakeholder engagement Companys reputation has undoubtedly impact we have on our employees, programme in place, including ongoing been damaged following the Events at communities and other stakeholders.
The dialogue with the relevant authorities in Marikana in 2012 and this has inevitably Board supports the view that delivering South Africa and all other stakeholders.
had a negative impact on our social our transformation and social responsibility Furthermore, the Balanced Scorecard licence to operate.
We are committed to obligations are essential, as are our includes specific metrics which have been addressing the underlying issues that were commitments under the Mining Charter and designed to incentivise delivery against highlighted by last years events.
This is our need to be a good corporate citizen.
During 2013, Lonmin discussed in more detail in the Strategic Impact appointed an additional Exco member, Report and A Deeper Look.
In addition Not focusing and delivering appropriately Lerato Molebatsi, Executive Vice President the Farlam Commission of Inquiry is still in on the issues that give us our social licence for Communications and Public Affairs, progress and the findings of this commission to operate could result in deteriorating who, amongst other responsibilities, has into the Events at Marikana in 2012 may relationships with our stakeholders and specific responsibility for Stakeholder have an impact on Lonmin.
thereby place our ability to operate effectively management, South African regulatory at risk.
Furthermore, to the extent that these affairs and community development.
issues are covered in our SLP, non-delivery www.
com 22 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 5.
Community relations Description Impact These projects are being driven through a Due to the fact that mining is conducted in Deteriorating relationships with our stakeholder engagement.
There are also areas where communities are present this communities as a result of poor services many community projects underway, creates a sense of ownership amongst and high unemployment can result in civil many of which are particularly focused communities which leads to the expectation unrest which could severely disrupt our on increasing levels of local recruitment.
that they will benefit from mining activities.
As many of our employees also Change This expectation is often not met and this live within these communities, disruptions Risk in this area remains unchanged from may result in conflict and unrest.
Affected within these communities and poor living 2012.
Our focus during the last year has communities are particularly vulnerable to conditions have a direct impact upon our been on rebuilding trust with our flawed consultation processes and a lack employees, which in turn can impact communities following the Events at of access to information.
The appointment of the EVP for The environmental, health and social Mitigation Communications and Public Affairs and the impacts of mining are often felt by those The Board has prioritised initiatives aimed at formation of the stakeholder engagement communities who live and work in close improving the quality of life of our employees, forum represent two key elements in our proximity to the mine and the living conditions their families and their communities.
strategy to drive improvements in this area.
of our employees have a direct influence on A number of projects have been developed their general wellbeing and on their ability as part of the Employee Value Proposition to succeed in their working environments.
and the Community Value Proposition.
Metal prices and currency volatility Description In addition, volatile metal prices may also this does not always hold true and can Commodity price and currency volatility affect the decisions made by our customers dislocate.
Such dislocations can be both increase the risks in managing a mining and may result in them considering positive and negative.
Currently it is not our business.
This is especially because mining substituting our products with other policy to hedge, partially because the cost requires long planning horizons to plan new alternatives.
This could then negatively of hedging the metal prices for the products mines and make decisions regarding the affect the demand for our products and which Lonmin produces are high and the expansion and contraction of existing hence our revenue.
Job losses may also be forward markets in these metals are not operations.
These decisions often need to inevitable in order to protect the business very liquid.
be made based on assumptions regarding during low metal price regimes.
Change future metal prices which drive revenue Mitigation Risk in this area remains unchanged from and exchange rates in our case primarily Lonmin gathers market information from 2012.
Metal and currency markets continue the USD ZAR exchange rate as the majority a number of different sources to better to remain very volatile.
In particular 2013 of our cost and capital expenditure are understand the supply and demand has seen lower USD PGM metal prices incurred in South African Rand.
When dynamics for our key products and the but these have been off-set by a weaker these assumptions are wrong and this factors that could affect metal price volatility.
South African Rand which has meant that then results in cash flows being less than We do this to try and develop more accurate cost and capital expenditure increases anticipated this can have a significant assumptions in our forecasting.
We also as reported in USD have been contained.
negative financial impact upon the business.
enter into longer term volume contracts This has helped maintain margins.
However, Impact with key customers to mitigate off-take risk.
the continued volatility and uncertainty in Incorrect metal price and exchange rate commodity price and currency markets Although historically there has been a assumptions used in long-term planning continue to make longer term planning and degree of correlation between the USD ZAR can lead to incorrect planning decisions investment decisions challenging.
exchange rate and the PGM basket price, and have negative financial consequences.
Uncompetitive costs Description Impact improvements.
The Balanced Scorecard Lonmin measures its costs based on its In a poor metal price environment cost measures also incentivise cost control.
cash cost per PGM ounce produced.
When increases can result in a margin squeeze Ultimately, to grow profitability, productivity this is compared to the equivalent costs which would result in negative financial must grow at a rate greater than the rate at for our peers, this determines our relative consequences.
Because so much of the which margins might otherwise decline as a position on the cost curve for the industry.
PGM industry is concentrated in Southern result of lower metal prices and higher costs.
The PGM mining industry is highly Africa and therefore most producers are Change concentrated in Southern Africa and as a subject to the same cost pressures, this Risk in this area has improved from 2012. result all the main producers face very then makes it extremely important to be Lonmin believes that its relative unit cost similar cost pressures.
In particular, labour competitive in respect of costs versus peers.
position when compared to its peers is is a significant cost driver for both Lonmin Mitigation better than in 2012.
Already before the and the industry generally due to the large Lonmin has a clear understating of its Events at Marikana in 2012 a number of amount of labour required to mine the very competitive position both at a Group level key operating initiatives had started to narrow PGM reefs predominantly found and by operation including at each shaft produce good productivity improvements in Southern Africa.
Other important cost and the productivity improvements that are within the business.
Following the Events drivers include the cost of chemicals, required to improve this position.
These at Marikana these initiatives have continued, power, water, timber, steel and concrete.
requirements are driven through the together with a focus on cash conservation budgeting and long-term planning process, and a management restructuring exercise with numerous detailed initiatives in place to reduce costs and increase effectiveness across the business to drive productivity in the management hierarchy.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 8.
Utilities Description Impact to securing water, an Integrated Water As a result of historical under investment by Supply constraints in respect of energy or Balance project is underway and forms part South Africa in infrastructure Lonmin faces water could impact upon our ability to of the Water Conservation and Demand potential supply constraints in respect of operate effectively and meet our production Management Plan for Marikana.
The aim utilities especially energy and water together targets.
Furthermore, cost increases in of this strategic project is to optimise water with increased costs in the consumption of respect of these utilities impact our use efficiency, minimise fresh water these utilities.
Electricity supply is likely to margins.
This is then compounded by the consumption and improve our long-term be especially at risk in the next two years imminent implementation of a carbon tax access to water.
until Eskoms new power stations, which which would place further pressure on our Change are currently behind schedule, come on operational costs.
Risk in this area has increased from 2012. stream.
Water availability is particularly Mitigation Despite this, 2013 was a successful year problematic in provinces such as the North Lonmin has implemented numerous energy in terms of our energy efficiency journey West and Limpopo where the infrastructural saving initiatives.
There are also load with several initiatives completed and a capacity to store and transfer water is shedding and contractual agreements in significant increase in general awareness limited and where long periods of drought place with Eskom to manage any supply evident amongst the management teams are common.
Furthermore, water for mining side constraints from the grid.
Trial renewable across our operations was achieved.
Further is increasingly competing with other generation and additional energy saving information on our water consumption and priorities, such as water for communities, projects are currently under investigation conservation measures is available in the agriculture and other industries.
Similarly, with regard Strategic Report and A Deeper Look.
Long-term planning Description Change in shareholder value not being optimised Difficult geological conditions result in Risk in this area remains unchanged over the long-term.
increased complexity in the ability to design from 2012.
During 2013, surface drilling Mitigation a mine.
The consequence of this is to risk of 40,000 metres continued at Marikana Borehole drilling, magnetic surveys and the production profile which may necessitate with the completion of 34 boreholes as 3D seismic surveys are conducted during the acceleration of underground ore part of an infill programme to improve the study work in Concept, Pre-feasibility and reserve development to generate sufficient confidence of the mineral resource.
In Feasibility phases which are aligned to replacement ore reserves.
Further, as addition, reprocessing of the K4 and K5 a project pipeline schedule.
The mine borehole drilling is done in a grid with a seismic surveys has been completed, extraction strategy for the whole property spacing of 800 metres between boreholes which resulted in an improved understanding is then revised annually to take into account there is uncertainty in respect of the actual of the geology.
This data will be included in new data.
Conceptual scenario planning is grades and reef thickness that will be the long-term planning process for the also conducted annually driven by strategy, encountered when mining.
structural geology and mining shaft hoisting is higher in some reefs than others.
As a As a result of the restricted capital and processing capacities and incorporated result of the wide spaced data, grade available in the LRP, we are using current into the long-term plan.
The revised plan is estimates are often smoothed over large infrastructure to the maximum in extending then managed weekly to deliver against this areas, increasing risk.
Further, independent peer capital ranking model was developed in the Impact reviews of the long-term plan are held before past year to enable an integrated mining The result of poor long-term planning due to submission to the Board.
The technical and processing ranking approach that will not properly understanding the geology of service function also acts independently of a mineral property or poor timing decisions enable better decision making in terms of mine management and scrutinises flexibility capital allocation and spend.
can result in sub optimal capital allocation, of working areas.
Balanced Scorecard which may result in poor value extraction measures also incentivise appropriate for a shaft over its life.
This will then result reserve development planning.
Skills shortages Description Change matching the packages offered by our Increased global investment in mining over Risk in this area remains unchanged from peers in order to attract and retain the past few years has driven demand for 2012.
At the end of 2013 we had 47.6% employees of a suitable calibre can result skilled workers around the world.
In South HDSAs in management, including white in increased costs.
Africa, this is compounded by the women, of which 36% HDSAs are in Mitigation requirement to increase the proportion of permanent management positions.
Women There are processes in place for individual HDSAs represented in management to 40% made up 8% of our workforce at the end development programmes, succession by the end of 2014. of 2013, with 5.1% being in core mining planning and retention strategies for scarce positions.
Woman at the mine increased Impact skills.
There is also a particular focus on by 1.8%.
Lack of appropriate skills could negatively bursaries, graduate development, mentorship More than 50% of the bursaries allocated impact safety, production and the ability to programmes and an Internship programme have originated from the greater Lonmin deliver against targets.
Failure to meet our to assist students who need to complete community.
Within the mining and HDSA targets could also negatively impact their practical work in order to obtain a processing divisions the Leadership Lonmins mining rights.
In order to retain our tertiary qualifications.
When recruiting, skilled labour we need to continuously look Staircase programme that maps the route preference is given to HDSA applicants.
of an employee that is to be fast tracked for at market related remuneration packages Lonmin is also launching an artisans management positions has been rolled out.
as compared to the incentive and retention college.
For mining there are portable skills schemes offered by Lonmin.
This continuous development training programs to help monitoring of remuneration practices and drive productivity improvements.
