STRATEGIC REPORT RISK EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO Understanding our key risks and developing OUR STRATEGIC INTENTS?
appropriate responses is critical to our future Risks can arise from events outside of our control or from operational matters.
Each of the key risks described on the success.
We are committed to a robust system following pages can have an impact on our ability to achieve of risk identification and an effective response our strategic intents.
This is illustrated by reference to each of our strategic intents: to such risks.
Portfolio investing in a portfolio of assets that deliver superior margins and returns through the cycle.
David Challen Chairman, Audit Committee People organising and developing our people to deliver on our promises and build respectful and mutually beneficial relationships with our stakeholders.
Performance operating safely and responsibly across the mining value chain to deliver sustainable value to best meet our customer and stakeholder needs.
As mining is a business that can span decades, many of its attendant risks are long term in nature, and there may not be any significant change year on year.
The commentary HOW WE MANAGE RISK provided on each risk is intended to highlight significant changes in the profile of individual risks or describe our Management of risk is critical to the success of experience of the risk over the course of 2013.
Our Group is exposed to a variety of risks that can have a financial, operational or For more information on the S&SD Committee reputational impact.
Effective management of risk See page 103 supports the delivery of our objectives and the For more information on the Audit Committee See page 106 achievement of sustainable growth.
AngloAmerican assessment of strategic, operational, project and sustainable development related risks 1.
Identifying risks A robust methodology is used to identify key risks across the Group: at business units, operations and projects.
This is being applied 1 2 consistently through the development and ongoing implementation Identifying Analysing of a Group integrated risk management standard.
Analysing risks and controls to manage identified risks to manage Once identified, the process will evaluate identified risks to establish root causes, financial and non-financial impacts and likelihood of identified risks occurrence.
Consideration of risk treatments is taken into account to enable the creation of a prioritised register.
Determining management actions required Effectiveness and adequacy of controls are assessed.
If additional controls are required, these will be identified and responsibilities assigned.
Reporting and monitoring Reporting Determining Management is responsible for monitoring progress of actions to and monitoring management treat key risks and is supported through the Groups internal audit actions required programme, which evaluates the design and effectiveness of controls.
The risk management process is continuous: key risks are reported to the Audit Committee, with sustainability risk also being reported to the S&SD Committee.
46 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report KEY RISKS AT A GLANCE EXTERNAL OPERATIONAL Pages 4849 Pages 5053 Political, legal and regulatory None Information and cyber security Increased risk Commodity prices Community relations Infrastructure No change Currency risk Employees Operational risk and in risk project delivery Liquidity risk Environmental Safety and health Event risk Inflation None Decreased risk The risks defined in this report are those we believe are our We also recognise that risks cannot be viewed in isolation.
In previous years we have reported risks Emergence of one risk may be caused by one or more other relating to climate change, counterparty, exploration, supply risks, or may cause another risk to emerge.
For example, chain, contractors, Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, project delivery or production risk can be influenced by bribery and corruption, joint ventures and acquisitions and risks relating to supply, inflation, political matters, legal and divestments, all of which we remain exposed to, though we regulatory requirements, infrastructure or community do not consider them to be our principal risks.
This interconnectivity, and the relationship of such risks are not discussed in the report.
risks to our above-mentioned strategic elements, requires significant emphasis to be placed on the management of risk and the effectiveness of our risk controls, with the identification and understanding of our risks being the first step in what is a continuous process.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 47 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK EXTERNAL RISKS POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY Pillars of value: Wherever we operate, our businesses may be affected by Root cause: The Group has no control over local political acts or political or regulatory developments, including changes to changes in local tax rates.
It recognises that its licence to operate fiscal regimes or other regulatory regimes.
through mining rights is dependent on a number of factors, including compliance with regulations.
Impact: Potential impacts include restrictions on the export of Mitigation: The Group actively monitors regulatory and political currency, expropriation of assets, imposition of royalties or other developments on a continuous basis.
taxes targeted at mining companies, and requirements for local ownership or beneficiation.
Political instability can also result in Increased risk civil unrest and nullification of existing agreements, mining permits Commentary: During 2013, we announced the restructuring or leases.
Any of these may adversely affect the Groups operations of our Platinum business in South Africa and have worked closely or results of those operations.
with government and the trade unions to minimise the potential for damaging strike action or social unrest.
This matter, which is further explained on pages 8085, is indicative of the need to understand and manage an increasingly complex global political, legal and regulatory environment.
INFORMATION AND CYBER SECURITY Pillars of value: The Group is exposed to risk of attack by third parties on our Root cause: Cyber risk arises from criminal activity to cause information systems.
disruption or attempts by third parties to access sensitive information.
The pace of technological development makes it challenging for any Impact: Attacks on our information systems may result in loss of organisation to prevent increasingly sophisticated methods of sensitive or proprietary information and fraud.
Damage is possible to attacking information technology systems.
equipment that is critical to mining or processing of ore, resulting in Mitigation: Anti-virus software and general computer controls interruption to production.
In addition, monitoring of networks is undertaken to identify suspicious activity in order that appropriate action can be taken.
We receive information on threats through security consultants and agencies on an ongoing basis.
The Group also has an Information Security policy that introduces the measures expected of employees in handling sensitive information.
Increased risk Commentary: The risk is increased as we recognise the threat is continually developing on a global basis.
CURRENCY RISK Pillars of value: The Group is exposed to currency risk when transactions are Root cause: The global nature of the Groups businesses exposes not conducted in US dollars.
the Group to currency risk.
Mitigation: Given our Groups diversified nature, our policy Impact: Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the most important is generally not to hedge currency risk.
Mitigation in the form currencies influencing our own operating costs and asset valuations of foreign exchange hedging is limited to debt instruments and the South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real, Australian capital expenditure on major projects.
dollar, and pound sterling may materially affect the Groups financial results.
No change in risk Commentary: Further description of currency risk and analysis of sensitivity to foreign exchange movement is provided on pages 203204.
48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report COMMODITY PRICES Pillars of value: Commodity prices for all products that AngloAmerican Root cause: Commodity prices are determined primarily by produces are subject to wide fluctuation.
international markets and global supply and demand.
Demand for commodities will largely be determined by the strength of the Impact: Commodity price volatility can result in a material and global economic environment.
adverse movement in the Groups operating results, asset values, Mitigation: The diversified nature of the commodities that revenues and cash flows.
Falling commodity prices could prevent AngloAmerican produces provides some protection to this risk, us from completing transactions that are important to the business and our policy is not to engage in commodity price hedging.
We and which may have an adverse effect on AngloAmericans financial constantly monitor the markets in which we operate, reviewing position e. g. the inability to sell assets at the values or within the capital expenditure programmes accordingly, so as to ensure the timelines expected.
supply of our products reflects forecast market conditions.
If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained period, our ability No change in risk to deliver growth in future years may be compromised as growth projects may not be viable at lower prices, and we may not be able Commentary: During 2013, prices in most of the commodities we to compete for new, complex projects that require significant mine remained relatively weak as a result of lacklustre economic capital investment.
conditions in many of our key markets.
Further detail of price movements is provided on page 7.
INFLATION Pillars of value: The Group is exposed to potentially high rates of inflation Root cause: Cost inflation in the mining sector is more apparent in the countries in which it operates.
during periods of high commodity prices as demand for input goods and services can exceed supply.
Impact: Higher rates of inflation may increase future operational Mitigation: We closely manage costs through our business costs if there is no concurrent depreciation of the local currency improvement and supply chain initiatives and, where necessary, against the US dollar, or an increase in the dollar price of the through adjusting employee and contractor numbers.
This may have a negative impact on profit margins and financial results.
Decrease in risk Commentary: The Driving Value programme has identified opportunities for cost reduction in operations and corporate costs.
External cost pressures will continue e. g. labour costs but are expected to be managed through the initiatives announced.
LIQUIDITY RISK Pillars of value: Our Group is exposed to liquidity risk in terms of being able to Root cause: Liquidity risk arises from uncertainty or volatility in fund operations and growth.
the capital or credit markets owing to perceived weaknesses in the global economic environment, or possibly as a response to shock Impact: If we are unable to obtain sufficient credit as a result of events.
Liquidity risk also arises when lenders are insecure about prevailing capital market conditions, we may not be able to raise our long term cash generative capacity.
sufficient funds to meet ongoing financing needs, develop projects, Mitigation: We have an experienced Treasury team which is compete for new projects requiring significant capital expenditure, or responsible for ensuring that there are sufficient committed loan fund acquisitions.
As a result, our revenues, operating results, cash facilities in place to meet short term business requirements after flows or financial position may be adversely affected.
taking into account cash flows from operations and holdings of cash, If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained period, our ability as well as any Group distribution restrictions.
We limit exposure on to deliver growth in future years may be compromised as growth liquid funds through a policy of minimum counterparty credit ratings, projects may not be viable at lower prices, and we may not be able daily counterparty settlement limits and exposure diversification.
to compete for new, complex projects that require significant No change in risk capital investment.
Commentary: All financing needs have been met, though capital availability for project development or acquisition is likely to be low until existing commitments are fulfilled or a stronger pricing environment exists.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 49 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK OPERATIONAL RISKS COMMUNITY RELATIONS Pillars of value: Disputes with communities may arise from time to time.
Root cause: We operate in several countries where ownership of rights in respect of land and resources is uncertain and where Impact: Failure to manage relationships with local communities, disputes in relation to ownership or other community matters government and NGOs may disrupt operations and negatively affect may arise.
The Groups operations can have an impact on local AngloAmericans reputation as well as our ability to bring projects communities, including the need, from time to time, to relocate into production.
communities or infrastructure networks such as railways and utility services.
Mitigation: We have developed comprehensive processes to enable our business units to effectively manage relationships with communities and we actively seek to engage with all communities affected by our operations.
No change in risk Commentary: Further description of our work during 2013 to maintain and improve relationships with our stakeholders is provided on pages 3133.
EMPLOYEES Pillars of value: The ability to recruit, develop and retain appropriate skills Root cause: We are subject to global competition for skilled for the Group.
Strikes or other industrial relations disputes labour.
Our assets and development projects are often in remote may occur.
places or in countries where it is a challenge to recruit suitably skilled employees.
In the key countries where the Group operates, the Impact: Failure to retain skilled employees or to recruit new staff majority of employees are members of trade unions.
Negotiations may lead to increased costs, interruptions to existing operations over wage levels or working conditions can sometimes fail to result and delay in new projects.
Industrial disputes have an adverse effect in agreement.
on production levels, costs and the results of operations.
Mitigation: One of AngloAmericans objectives is to be the employer of choice in the mining sector.
A comprehensive human resources strategy has been devised to support that objective, focused on the attraction, retention and development of talented employees and the effective deployment of talent across the Group.
The Group seeks constructive relationships and dialogue with trade unions and employees in all its businesses.
No change in risk Commentary: During 2013, we began a review of our organisational model and structures.
The aim of the redesign is to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of work performed by placing the right employees in the right roles.
This is expected to reduce pressure on recruitment and retention of skills in the short term.
Further details of the changes is provided on pages 2830.
50 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report ENVIRONMENT Pillars of value: Some of our operations create environmental risk in the Root cause: The mining process, including blasting and processing form of dust, noise or leakage of polluting substances as well of orebodies, can generate dust and noise and requires the storage as uncontrolled breaches of tailings dam facilities.
These of waste materials in liquid form.
can generate harm to our employees, contractors and the Mitigation: The Group implements a number of initiatives to monitor communities near our operations, leading to a deterioration and limit the impact of its operations on the environment.
in air quality and water purity and contamination of land.
No change in risk Impact: Potential impacts include fines and penalties for past, Commentary: Our environmental performance during 2013 is current or future events, statutory liability for environmental detailed on pages 4345. remediation and other financial consequences that may be significant.
Governments may force closure of mines on a temporary or permanent basis or refuse future mining right applications.
EVENT RISK Pillars of value: Damage to physical assets from fire, explosion, natural Root cause: Some of our operations are located in areas exposed catastrophe or breakdown of critical machinery.
to natural catastrophes such as earthquake extreme weather conditions.
The impact of climate change may intensify the severity Impact: The direct costs of repair or replacement combined of weather events.
The nature of our operations exposes us to with business interruption losses can result in financial losses.
potential failure of mining pit slopes, underground shafts and tailings dam walls, fire, explosion and breakdown of critical machinery, with long lead times for replacement.
Mitigation: Specialist consultants are engaged to analyse such event risks on a rotational basis and provide recommendations for management action in order to prevent or limit the effects of such a loss.
Contingency plans are developed to respond to significant events and restore normal levels of business activity.
AngloAmerican purchases insurance to protect itself against the financial consequences of an event, subject to availability and cost.
No change in risk Commentary: Unfortunately, we witnessed this risk materialise at the Amap iron ore system in Brazil during 2013, resulting in four deaths, with a further two people still missing, and loss of the port operation.
The Amap operation has since been sold and an insurance claim is being pursued.
Lessons from this event are being shared with other port operations across the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 51 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK OPERATIONAL RISKS continued INFRASTRUCTURE Pillars of value: Inability to obtain adequate supporting facilities, services Root cause: The potential disruption of ongoing generation and and installations water, power, road, rail and port, etc.. supply of power is a risk we face in a number of countries.
Our operations and projects can be located in areas where power and Impact: Failure to obtain supporting facilities may affect the water supplies are not certain and may be affected by population sustainability and growth of the business, leading to loss of growth, the effects of climate change or lack of investment by owners competitiveness, market share and reputation.
Failure of rail or port of infrastructure.
We rely upon effective rail and port facilities for facilities may result in delays and increased costs, lost revenue, and transporting our products and will be expected to provide shipment a worsening reputation with customers.
Failure to procure shipping of product in some circumstances to customers premises.
We use costs at competitive market rates may reduce profit margins.
third parties to provide these services.
Mitigation: We seek to work closely with suppliers of infrastructure to mitigate the risk of failure and have established contingency arrangements.
Long term agreements with suppliers are sought where appropriate.
No change in risk Commentary: Details of programmes to manage water consumption and power usage are provided on pages 4345.
OPERATIONAL RISK AND PROJECT DELIVERY Pillars of value: Failure to meet production targets or project delivery Root cause: Increasing regulatory, environmental, access and timetables and budgets.
social approvals can increase construction costs and introduce delays.
Operational performance can be influenced by technical Impact: Increased unit costs may arise from failure to meet and engineering factors as well as events or circumstances that production targets, thus affecting our operational and financial have an impact on other critical inputs to the mining and processing performance.
Failure to meet project delivery timetables and of minerals.
budgets may delay cash inflows, increase capital costs, incur Mitigation: Management oversight of operating performance contractual penalties, and reduce profitability, as well as have a and project delivery through regular executive management negative impact on the Groups reputation.
briefings, a continuous focus on improvement of operations through our business improvement programme, and consistent application of the companys methodology for new projects, are vital aspects in managing this risk.
No change in risk Commentary: The Minas-Rio project in Brazil remains the key risk from a project-delivery perspective.
The risk has lessened during 2013, with most of the permit delays resolved and construction progressing refer to commentary on pages 5859.
Production performance and status of key projects is provided on pages 3941.
52 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report SAFETY AND HEALTH Pillars of value: Failure to maintain high levels of safety management can Root cause: Mining is a hazardous industry and working conditions result in harm to our employees, contractors, communities such as weather, altitude and temperature can add to the inherent near our operations and damage to the environment.
dangers of mining, whether underground or in open pit mines.
Occupational health risks to employees and contractors Mitigation: AngloAmerican sets a very high priority on safety and include noise-induced hearing loss, occupational lung diseases health matters.
A safety risk management process, global standards and tuberculosis TB.
In sub-Saharan Africa in particular, and a safety and environment assurance programme form part of HIV AIDS is a threat to economic growth and development.
a consistently applied robust approach to mitigating safety risk.
AngloAmerican provides free anti-retroviral therapy to employees Impact: In addition to injury, health and environmental damage, with HIV AIDS and undertakes education and awareness impacts could include fines and penalties for past, current or future programmes to help prevent infection or spread of infection.
issues, liability to employees or third parties, impairment of AngloAmericans reputation, industrial action or inability to attract No change in risk and retain skilled employees.
Government authorities may force Commentary: Details of safety performance and our approach to closure of mines on a temporary or permanent basis or refuse mining health management are provided on pages 2930. right applications.
The recruitment and retention of skilled people required to meet growth aspirations can be affected by high rates of HIV AIDS.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 53
