PrinciPal risKs anD UncerTainTies Marstons adopts a formal risk identification and management process designed to ensure that risks are properly identified, prioritised, evaluated and mitigated to the extent that is possible.
risk management is embedded in the operations of the business.
Business operations maintain risk registers compiled and monitored by the Corporate Risk Director.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the risk management process, including on matters of internal audit and the evaluation of potential impacts, both financial and reputational.
The following risks are, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks which affect Marstons.
It is not intended to be a complete analysis of all risks and may change over time.
economic Mitigation Factor Future economic uncertainty: we rely upon the spending capacity of our customers.
Maintaining value-for-money The basic cost of living could continue to increase at a faster rate than incomes.
Customer choice, flexible pricing Risk options.
The outlook for economic growth in the UK has improved but remains low and a fall in Competitive offering.
consumer confidence may impact upon our sales, and our investment plans.
High standards of service and quality.
Impact Consumer trends analysis supports Customers could spend less on our products and services.
the view that eating out remains Forecasting and investment returns may become more uncertain.
resilient despite difficult economic Strategic objective conditions.
Maximise the return on investment.
Range of pub brands and formats Pub disposal programme.
investment plans Mitigation Factor Increased competition for development sites for building new pub-restaurants.
In-house property development team with proven experience in delivering Risk new-build projects.
Investment plans do not meet return targets.
Expert understanding of planning A reduction in the availability of quality sites for investment.
Impact In-depth knowledge of site availability.
The programme of building new pub-restaurants may be slowed.
Maintain pipeline of new sites for Corporate growth targets may not be met.
Strategic objective Maximise profit growth and development of a high value property estate.
financial covenants Mitigation Factor Lenders expect that Marstons can repay capital and interest on time and operate Sophisticated accounting systems.
Constant monitoring of financial ratios.
Company strategy, business plans, Risk acquisitions and project development Breach of financial covenants.
built upon the preservation of Impact corporate financial covenants.
Breach of covenants could result in additional financial operating restrictions being Annual audit by external Auditors.
Flexibility to transfer pubs between Potential loss of reputation amongst investors.
Business financed at rates of interest that allow profit to be generated to provide further growth.
24 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report accounting controls Mitigation Factor The financial systems of the Group must handle large numbers of transactions securely Sophisticated accounting systems and ensure that transactions are properly recorded.
Risk Regular management accounts by Breakdown of internal accounting controls leading to material financial misstatement.
Impact Detailed annual budgets and Potential loss of investor confidence.
Levels of authority over the approval Strategic objective process for transactions.
Safeguard the assets of the business.
Well established IT systems in pubs Secure investor confidence.
information technology Mitigation Factor Marstons is heavily reliant upon IT networks to process transactions, conduct Anti-virus and firewall protection.
operations at ground level and report on results.
Constant vigilance and monitoring threats posed by hacking, breach of Risk access controls and viruses.
External interference in the computer system cyber risk.
Physical protection of servers and Compliance with the Digital Economy Act 2010 and security of data.
Disaster recovery of backed up data taking longer than four hours.
Backup procedures and continual Impact monitoring regarding the integrity of Significant disruption could be caused to the daily trading operations of the Group.
data and rehearsal of recovery Strategic objective procedures.
A stable IT environment that allows the Group to conduct its operations with a high Business continuity plans.
degree of efficiency and speed without disruption.
Protect sensitive data, particularly that which is commercially damaging if openly available.
People Mitigation Factor Increased demand for high calibre people, particularly licensees.
Comprehensive induction and training programmes.
Risk Regular capability reviews and Failure to attract and retain the best people.
Marstons may not meet its financial targets.
An ongoing programme of Strategic objective engagement surveys with employees.
A stable and experienced employee base will allow the Group to better achieve its Range of flexible agreements with our strategic priorities.
regulatory Mitigation Factor The Group is subject to many different areas of regulation due to the diversity of its Training and monitoring programmes operations.
Significant areas include alcohol retailing, licensing, food hygiene, health for all our pub operators.
and safety, competition law, environment and property law.
External auditing of compliance to current legislation including health and Risk safety, and food safety.
There is a risk that more regulation may significantly affect our business operations.
Compliance Committee to register Impact and monitor legal compliance.
Increase in taxation could reduce profitability.
Active consultation with Government, Further regulation could restrict our licensees in operating their pubs in a sustainable trade bodies and the BBPA.
Our Code of Practice developed to Strategic objective bring greater transparency to the Operating a sustainable and profitable business model.
Comprehensive health and safety management system.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25
