04 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Group Chief Executives review A landmark year with strong strategic and financial performance Our continued strong performance positions us well to succeed in a digital world.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive 2017 has been a landmark year for the Financial performance Strategic progress Group.
In May the UK government We have delivered another year of strong In 2017 we successfully completed the completed the sell-down of its shares financial performance in 2017 with increased second phase of our strategic plan, and the Group returned to full private profits and returns on both a statutory and achieving our strategic priorities of creating ownership.
This was enabled by the underlying basis, strong capital generation the best customer experience, becoming significant strategic progress and strong and increased capital returns.
simpler andmore efficient and delivering financial performance in recent years and sustainablegrowth.
was down to the hard work of all our people Statutory profit before tax increased 24per cent and I thank them for it.
to 5.3 billion, reflecting higher underlying profit Creating the best customer experience and lower below the line charges.
Underlying During the year we successfully completed We have been committed to meeting profit was 8.5 billion, an increase of 8 per cent, customers evolving needs through our the second phase of our strategy with with improved income and positive operating significant improvement in customer service, multi-brand and multi-channel approach and jaws resulting in an improved cost:income ratio as a result customer satisfaction, as measured development of our market leading digital of 46.8 per cent.
Asset quality remains strong proposition including an open banking by net promoter score NPS, has increased to and the Groups gross asset quality ratio remains 62.0 from 58.6 in 2014 and from 42.5 in 2011. platform, targeted growth and delivery of unchanged at 28 basis points, while the net Simplification savings ahead of target.
We now We operate the UKs largest branch network asset quality ratio increased to 18 basis points and the largest digital bank with 13.4 million have the largest and top rated digital bank in as a result of expected lower releases and writethe UK alongside the largest branch network.
active online users, of which 9.3 million are on backs.
Additional PPI provisions of 1.7billion mobile.
We have focused on transforming key We also completed the acquisition of MBNAs and conduct costs of 865 million were taken prime credit card business, the Groups first customer journeys and have made significant in the year.
The increased PPI provision reflects improvements, including faster processing major acquisition since the financial crisis and increased complaint levels including the impact announced the acquisition of Zurichs UK of new mortgage applications and simpler of the first FCA advertising campaign for the processes for account opening.
In addition we workplace pensions and savings business later August 2019 industry deadline.
in the year, giving us a strong platform on which have developed an open banking platform in line with regulatory timescales.
to develop the next stage of our strategy in the During the year, loans and advances financial planning and retirement business.
increasedto 456 billion with open mortgage We remain committed to delivering the best book growth, increased SME balances and 2017 has also been a pivotal year for the UK.
service for our customers and addressing continued growth in consumer lending historic conduct issues.
We have continued The Bank of England increased the bank rate whilstalso consolidating the MBNA book.
Our for the first time in more than 10 years and the to pay compensation to victims of the legacy balance sheet remains strong with a pro forma fraud at HBOS Reading, and have now made government triggered Article 50 and launched CET1 ratio of 13.9percent after ordinary EU exit negotiations.
Although the precise offers to 57 customers, which represents more dividends and allowing for the share buyback, than 80 per cent of the customers in the review.
nature of the UKs future relationship with a total capital ratio of 21.2percent and a pro Europe remains unclear and the economic forma UKleverage ratioof 5.4percent.
Becoming simpler and more efficient outlook is therefore uncertain, the economy Cost management has been a strategic priority has been resilient with low unemployment, In line with our progressive and sustainable and we remain focused on maintaining our stable house prices, record employment and ordinary dividend policy, the Board has competitive advantage in cost leadership.
recommended a final ordinary dividend Our Simplification programme has delivered of 2.05 pence per share, taking the total 1.4 billion of run-rate cost savings, ahead of ordinary dividend for 2017 to 3.05 pence our original 1 billion target, and costs have per share, up 20 per cent on 2016.
Given our fallen every year excluding the impact of strong capital generation the Board has also MBNA.
Our market leading cost:income ratio announced its intention to implement a share improved to 46.8 per cent in 2017, with further buyback of up to 1 billion, equivalent to up to improvements targeted.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05 Transforming ways of working Strategy overview We are making our biggest ever investment Our achievements in 2017 As we look to the future, we see the external in people, increasing colleague training and environment evolving rapidly.
Changing UK government share sale completed, development by 50 per cent to 4.4 million hours customer behaviours, the pace of technological allowing the Group to be returned to full per annum and embracing new technology evolution and changes in regulation all present private ownership to drive better customer outcomes.
Given our strong capabilities hard work, commitment and expertise of our Statutory profit of 5.3 billion, an increase and the significant progress made in recent colleagues has enabled us to deliver to date of 24 per cent on 2016 years we believe we are in a unique position and we will further invest in capabilities and to compete and win in this environment by Underlying profit of 8.5 billion, an agile working practices.
We have already developing additional competitive advantages.
increase of 8 per cent on 2016 restructured the business and reorganised We will continue to transform ourselves to the leadership team to ensure effective Completed the acquisition of prime succeed in this digital world and the next phase implementation of the new strategy.
credit card business MBNA and of our strategy, being announced today, will announced the acquisition of Zurichs UK ensure we have the capabilities to deliver workplace pensions and savings business Financial returns future success.
Increased ordinary dividend of The UK economy has proven resilient and 3.05pence per share with an additional going forward our plans and projections Strategic priorities share buyback of up to 1 billion assume this performance continues with a We have identified four strategic priorities steady increase in base rate to 1.25 per cent focused on the financial needs and behaviours bythe end of 2020.
Delivering sustainable growth of the customer of the future: further enhancing When we outlined our strategic vision in The strategy outlined today will enable the our leading customer experience: further October 2014, we targeted sustainable Group to deliver strong statutory profit growth digitising the Group: maximising Group growth in line with our low risk appetite, supported by targeted asset growth in key capabilities: and transforming ways of working.
committing to grow in areas where we were segments, a resilient net interest margin, We will invest more than 3 billion in these under-represented.
We have increased net lower operating costs, strong asset quality strategic initiatives through the plan period that lending to SME clients by 3 billion since and lower remediation costs, whilst delivering will drive our transformation into a digitised, 2014, significantly ahead of the market, while strong capital generation and sustainable and simple, low risk, customer focused UK financial also increasing UK consumer assets by over superior shareholder returns.
6 billion and acquiring the 8 billion MBNA Costs will continue to be a competitive credit card portfolio.
In the competitive low Delivering a leading customer experience advantage as we deliver market leading growth mortgage market we have focused We will drive stronger customer relationships efficiency.
We expect operating costs to be on protecting margin rather than achieving through best in class propositions while less than 8 billion in 2020.
We also expect to volume growth over the last couple of years continuing to provide our customers with achieve a cost:income ratio in the low 40s as we though the open mortgage book returned to brilliant servicing and a seamless experience exit 2020, including future remediation costs.
The Group also announced the across all channels.
This will include: We continue to expect improvements in the acquisition of Zurichs workplace pensions and remaining the number 1 digital bank in the cost:income ratio every year.
UK with open banking functionality: Asset quality remains strong and, given our We remain committed to building the best unrivalled reach with UKs largest branch low risk business model and the significant team, creating an inclusive and diverse network serving complex needs: and portfolio improvements in recent years, we now workforce that represents a changing Britain.
expect an asset quality ratio of around 35 basis Colleague engagement is at an all-time high, data-driven and personalised points through the cycle and less than 30 basis and in line with top performing corporates.
points through the plan period.
2017 we were awarded number one employer for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Digitising the Group We expect to deliver an improved return on people at the Stonewall Awards and named the We will deploy new technology to drive tangible equity RoTE of 14.015.0 per cent worlds best bank for diversity and inclusion by additional operational efficiencies that will from 2019 onwards on a higher CET1 capital Euromoney magazine.
make banking simple and easier for customers base of c. 13 per cent plus a management buffer whilst reducing operating costs, pursuing the of around 1 per cent.
following initiatives: Helping Britain Prosper Plan Capital generation is expected to remain deeper end-to-end transformation targeting In 2014 we launched our Helping Britain strong with 170-200 basis points of capital over 70 per cent of cost base: Prosper Plan to support the people, generation per year pre dividend and as businesses and communities in the UK.
The a result we expect to deliver progressive simplification and progressive modernisation financial success of the Group is inextricably and sustainable ordinary dividends whilst of our data and IT infrastructure: and linked to the health of the UK and we are maintaining the flexibility to return surplus technology enabled productivity working hard to support the whole economy.
Since the launch of the plan four years ago, we have lent more than 47billion to firstMaximising the Groups capabilities Summary time buyers, supported more than 440,000 We will deepen customer relationships, grow Our strong foundations, differentiated business start-ups, been the largest UK corporate tax in targeted segments and better address our model and strategic capabilities combined payer and donated 72 million to the Groups customers banking and insurance needs as with the new strategic plan announced today independent Foundations.
Also, in 2017 anintegrated financial services provider.
This and a highly engaged team positions us well to we have trained over 700,000 individuals, will include: succeed in a digital world and continue to help businesses and charities in digital skills.
2014 we were the first FTSE 100 company to increasing Financial Planning and Retirement make a commitment on the number of senior FP&R open book assets by more than positions held by women.
At that time women 50billion by 2020 with more than 1 million made up 29 per cent of senior management.
new pension customers: In 2017 we met our 34 per cent target and implementing an integrated FP&R we are on track to achieve 40 per cent by proposition with single customer view: and 2020.
We also recently became the first FTSE Antnio Horta-Osrio 100 company to set a target to increase the start-up, SME and Mid Market net lending Group Chief Executive proportion of senior roles held by Black, Asian growth more than 6 billion in the and Minority Ethnic colleagues.
8 per cent by 2020 for senior managers and 10per cent for the overall Group.
