Chief Executives review We have strong foundations in place for delivering to stakeholders and society Two years ago, we laid out our plan to build a Barclays that is fit for the future To recast our business as a transatlantic consuer and wholesale bank, with global reach a pleased to report that the significant task of restructuring this great institution was copleted in 2 The spirit, energy and professionalism that my The Barclays of today is almost colleagues from across Barclays have brought unrecognisable, compared with just a few to this endeavour gives me great confidence years ago.
The momentum we have built in in our future, both as Group CEO and as a successfully delivering on our plans so far, shareholder.
While there is still work to be leaves me with a sense of confidence about done, the story of Barclays in 2017 has been our next task: delivering acceptable Group one of considerable strategic progress.
returns for you, our shareholders.
On the 1st of June, we completed the sell down Our financial performance in 2017 shows that of our shareholding in Barclays Africa.
At a we are on our way to doing this.
Our Group stroke, this single act permitted accounting profit before tax is up by 10, year on year, deconsolidation and regulatory proportional largely driven by a reduction in Non-Core consolidation, reduced both cost and losses.
Group return on tangible equity, complexity, and improved our capital strength.
excluding litigation and conduct charges, the losses related to the sell down of BAGL and a one-off adverse impact from US tax reform, Our Group profit before tax stood at 5.6% in 2017. is up by 10%, year on year.
Our two businesses, Barclays UK and Barclays International, performed fairly well in the year In July, we closed Barclays Non-Core unit, six despite challenging market conditions, and months ahead of plan.
In doing so, we the Group is benefitting from the balance that eliminated some 95bn of risk weighted the diversity of product, currency, geography, assets, sold more than 20 businesses, exited and business mix, gives us.
In Barclays UK operations in a dozen countries, and reduced profitability held up, with good progress in costs by over 2bn - all in just three years.
mortgages, deposit growth, and mobile banking.
Profits were down in Barclays In September, we stood up the Group Service International versus 2016, due to a poor Company, where around 42,000 of our 80,000 performance in the Markets business of our employees now work.
Operational and Corporate and Investment Bank in difficult technological strength is a key competitive trading conditions for the industry.
We have advantage for any global bank today.
The cost strong plans in place to address that efficiencies and improvements in effectiveness underperformance in 2018.
Our Consumer, realised from this strategic decision are already Cards and Payments business continues to being felt right across the Group and that is produce excellent levels of income, while making a real and positive difference to our managing risk effectively.
customers and clients lives, every day.
Perhaps most importantly of all, we enter By December, we had largely completed the 2018 in a strong capital position.
By the end of work to build our UK ring-fenced bank, which 2017, we were at a Common Equity Tier 1 we expect will be fully up and running by the CET1 ratio of 13.3%, within our end-state time we meet at the Annual General Meeting target range.
04 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information This shows that Barclays can sustainably I have worked in banking for some 38 years, and generate profits at a healthy rate, and our I can say with conviction that the way Barclays In 2017 over half of our capacity to do so should increase over time as does business, seeking to earn the trust of every colleagues took part in we grow our businesses.
customer, client and community in which we volunteering, fundraising or serve, is truly extraordinary.
That is why in 2017 we set ourselves giving programmes.
ambitious but attainable targets for Group In 2017 we celebrated the 20th anniversary of returns of greater than 9% in 2019, and of the Barclays Citizenship Awards - a year which greater than 10% in 2020, excluding litigation saw over half of our colleagues take part in It is the talent, ingenuity and dedication of our and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of volunteering, fundraising or giving people, and the progress we have made in the around13%.
Among many examples of great past year, which gives me great confidence for contributions to the communities in which we A small number of significant legacy conduct our future.
I look forward to discussing this operate, I was particularly proud of the work issues remain, and we will need to resolve future with you when we meet at our AGM in we have done to increase digital safety and to them in due course.
prevent the growing threat of fraud.
Our Nevertheless, it is our intention to prioritise education and awareness campaign has seen the return of capital to shareholders, over 4.8 million people take action to protect beginning this year.
We plan to pay a dividend themselves as a result.
aes tale for 2018 of six and a half pence, which is more Group Chief Executive This kind of effort is not just the right way to than double the amount paid in 2016 and act, it also makes commercial sense.
When 2017, and restores it to the level paid in 2015. the societies where we operate succeed, This is an important first step, but is still a Barclays succeeds.
That is why, for over three fairly modest proportion of our anticipated centuries, this great institution continues to earnings for Barclays.
It is our firm intent, over rise up to the challenges that our time, to return a greater proportion of our communities face, and to play our part.
earnings to shareholders, both through the This is particularly true as our home country, annual dividend and in other ways.
For the United Kingdom, faces an uncertain future example, it has been some 20 years since as negotiations to leave the European Union Barclays last used share buybacks as a means unfold.
Whatever may come, Barclays is here to of returning value to investors, but we expect stay, and here to help the 24 million customers these to be an important part of the capital and almost one million UK businesses, who put return mix going forward.
their trust in us, every day.
Barclays Citizenship Awards Going the extra mile to benefit society and Barclays is what our Being a contributor is a very important part of the culture of Barclays.
It says the right things about who we are.
Barclays is a business built Shared Growth Ambition is all about.
The Citizenship Awards is a chance to celebrate the extraordinary Barclays colleagues who do just on our people and we are proud of the contributions that our extraordinary people make to our Citizenship ambitions.
that and play a positive role in society.
2017 marked the 20th anniversary of the awards.
There were almost 500 nominations for the awards, celebrating the outstanding Citizenship contributions of our employees to driving economic, environmental and social prosperity.
The awards were split into five categories that encompass Citizenship and our Shared Growth Ambition: access to financing, access to financial and digital empowerment, access to employment, colleagues in the community and the way we do business.
Whether its creating commercial products with a positive societal impact, empowering customers with better financial and digital skills, helping people get into the world of work, improving the way we do business, or colleagues giving their time and skills to the causes theyre passionate about, there is a huge variety of ways in which Barclays colleagues contributed to society in 2017. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 05
