com Chief executives statement All told, these claims added roughly 10 percentage points to our combined Claims service is our ratio for last year and directly affected all of our five divisions.
The largest claims product and our claims were, naturally, focused on our team moved swiftly reinsurance and property divisions, but our marine division also incurred in2017 to redeem some cargo claims while our newly amalgamated political, accident & ourpromise to contingency division PAC picked up ourpolicyholders some event cancellation claims due to the storms.
The losses we paid in 2017 were well within the scenarios for which our underwriting teams routinely plan.
As described on page 12, a detailed claims plan is a major part of the annual business plan for divisions exposed to potential catastrophe losses.
In 2017 our plans included a larger role for technology than in prior years, with sophisticated satellite imagery enabling claims adjusters to be dispatched rapidly to the Beazley clients located in the areas most severely affected by the storms.
These events were, in aggregate, by far the largest insurance industry losses since 2011, accounting for an estimated $100bn in claims.
After five years of largely benign catastrophe experience superstorm Sandy in 2012 being the only significant exception, it is not surprising that pricing for the Andrew Horton affected lines of business had eroded Chief executive significantly.
In the property insurance and reinsurance markets, price declines were aggravated by a large influx of Claims service is our product and our new capital from pension funds and In a year that tested the mettle claims teams moved swiftly in the wake other investors seeking profitable of many insurers, Beazley of the hurricanes, earthquakes and diversification from other asset classes.
performed strongly, delivering wildfires to redeem our promise to Across Beazleys portfolio as a whole, a profit before income tax our policyholders.
By the end of the year premium rates fell 1% in 2017. we had disbursed more than $110m in of $168.0m 2016: $293.2m cash advances and claims settlements Prudent risk selection and effective on gross premiums written to help our insureds in the Caribbean cycle management are disciplines that that rose by 7% to $2,343.8m and US in the wake of Hurricanes any insurer must get right if it is to 2016: $2,195.6m.
After Harvey, Irma and Maria, the two prosper in the long term.
The events earthquakes that rocked central Mexico of 2017 punished insurers that had absorbing the impact of an in September 2017 and the California succumbed to the lure of premium exceptional series of natural wildfires in October and December 2017, growth in short tail lines with inadequate catastrophes, we achieved a the worst in that states history.
Beazleys relatively strong modest underwriting profit, performance in such a challenging with a combined ratio of 99% year speaks to the resilience of our business model.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 19 The events of late 2017 have since , thebalance In February 2017 we acquired spurred material price rises in the of our underwriting portfolio continued Creechurch Underwriters, a Canadian classes of business directly affected.
We managing general agency specialising in We saw reinsurance renewal prices were able to achieve growth of 11% small and mid sized specialty business.
climb by 3% for non-US business and in specialty lines on gross premiums And in July 2017 we received 8% for US business in January 2018. written and, after a slow start to the authorisation from the Central Bank of Our property division, which derives year, our underwriters in the US Ireland to underwrite business through 71% of its business from the US, delivered premium growth of 12% a new Dublin-based insurance company, saw prices overall rise by 6% with to write $778.0m 2016: $695.7m.
Beazley Insurance dac, broadening our the biggest increases focused on the access to business from continental large risk business that we underwrite  Europe.
In the marine increased their contribution of prior year market, premium rates for cargo reserve releases by 77% to $121.4m Our longstanding preference is for business the class most affected 2016: $68.5m.
Our consistent organic growth, but our purchase by the Atlantic storms rose by between approach to reserving means that some of Creechurch Underwriters was an 2.5%-5.0% in the last quarter of 2017. distribution of prior year reserves for .
specialty lines business is often possible We had supported the company with It is too early to say how sustainable in excess of three years after the underwriting capital since its creation in these price increases will prove to be.
business was underwritten, by which 1996 and we knew the team extremely Much will depend on the continuing time claims have largely been paid.
Now that we have a local presence appetite of non-traditional capital inCanada,  The scale of these reserve releases providers, who shouldered some of was reduced by the elevated claims opportunities and have already begun the largest reinsurance losses.
to supplement the existing team with that we saw and had expected to  new underwriters focusing on media In other areas we expect to see a decline liability, cyber and environmental crisis: but with this period now well in a practice that frequently undermines behind us, the contribution specialty liability business.
pricing discipline in a soft market lines should make to overall reserve  releases is on the increase.
Prior Spain,  to last year, this underpinned the Looking ahead, we are budgeting for and plan to transact business for the willingness of many insurers to account of Beazley Insurance dac growth in all of our divisions in 2018, countenance combined ratios of over  through branches in those countries, 100% on their marine books, whilst as well as in the UK and France.
Overall, we expect catastrophe-related claims were low to reach double digit growth in 2018. will have a choice of security: that of or non-existent.
Now that offsetting the insurance company, which enjoys  passporting freedoms under European Growth initiatives disappeared, some upward adjustment Union law, and that of our Lloyds Our approach to growth remains in marine rates can be expected.
Instead we look for growth The same may prove true for some of In Asia and Latin America, we continue fromthreesources:increasingtheflow the large risk business underwritten to focus on the growth opportunities  by teams within our largest division, available through regional hubs.
through brokers who know they can specialty lines.
The specialty lines Singapore has been playing such a role rely on Beazley for high quality service: division, which focuses on professional in Asia and Miami continues to grow in designing new products to cater for our liability, management liability and importance as a hub for Latin American clients changing needs: and expanding cyber risks, has accounted for much business: we expanded our specialty geographically into new markets.
of Beazleys growth in recent years as lines teams in both locations in 2017. margins on small and mid sized risks We pursued all of these growth much of it accessed by our underwriters Other divisions also targeted growth strategies in 2017.
A team within in the US have remained attractive.
in geographies that, while not new to specialty lines under the leadership of However aggressive competition from Beazley, were new for the products in Gerard Bloom focused on geographic new entrants in areas such as large risk question.
Our marine division, the last growth in markets where Beazley has architects and engineers professional Beazley division to establish a local historically had a modest presence, liability and medical malpractice for presence in the US, began underwriting including continental Europe, Canada, large US hospitals have held back our hull and liability cover for the marine and Latin America and parts of Asia.
To growth in these segments.
This too marine construction industries from our facilitate this growth and that of other may change as opportunities for , teams, we took two important steps.
targeting business not normally seen by our underwriters in London.
com Chief executives statement continued Earlier in 2017 we also began writing Given the depth of our experience, the We restructured our fixed income large scale property business locally cyber market continues to afford strong investments in 2016, adopting in the US on the same basis a move growth opportunities for Beazley.
This additional credit exposures, and this that should stand us in good stead in spring the European Unions General proved helpful in 2017 as declining the changed market conditions now Data Protection Regulation will come credit spreads generated additional prevailing.
into force, continuing a process through value.
As a result, our core portfolio which data regulation outside the returned a respectable 1.6% 2016: All measures to grow internationally US has been catching up with and 1.5%, despite rising yields in the final come with risk and they do not always in some respects exceeding the months of the year.
Our capital growth pay off.
In 2017 we closed the office in stringency of US regulation.
Beazleys investments produced a particularly Dubai that we had opened in 2014 and product range is adapted to the needs strong return, at 11.0% 2016: 5.6%, sold the renewal rights to our Australian of clients of all sizes and in all industries.
driven by equities, to which we added accident and health portfolio.
We kept a focus on instances we did not see the profit All of our business at Beazley is sourced emerging markets, which performed potential as large enough to warrant through brokers and, even when we are particularly well in 2017. further investment.
Crispin Hodges, who not offering new products or expanding set up our Dubai office, has a strong geographically, we can rely on brokers Risk management track record of business development to show us attractive business in our 2017 was our second year of operating for Beazley in Asia and Europe and upon specialist lines.
Our brokers continue within the new Solvency II regime with his return has taken up the position to rate our teams highly for service our internal model approved by the of international business producer as both in underwriting and claims Central Bank of Ireland.
During this a cross division resource for our marine, and we strive to maintain their period we have seen the work political, accident & contingency and confidence and that of their clients.
undertaken by the capital modelling property divisions.
Also members of In most of the markets in which we team in the pre-application stages pay our Australian accident and health team do business, there remains significant off.
As our chief risk officer Andrew Pryde joined Blend Insurance Solutions, a headroom for growth, providing pricing explains on page 56, we have in place Sydney-based Lloyds service company, levels are attractive as in many cases a capital model which reflects the which took over our local portfolio.
reality of the business and can be used across the group to support business Product innovation is another important We are also exploring writing a portfolio processes and inform the board on how source of growth in the specialist of facilities business through a newly risk is changing.
We have continued to markets in which Beazley operates.
created syndicate, syndicate 5623. use an external consultancy to provide Our track record in this area is strong This syndicate will be backed mainly independent challenge and to support and we continued to expand our product by third party capital and is expected the production of a detailed validation range in 2017.
We have seen particularly to deliver returns with lower volatility.
strong demand in the US for our Virtual Care product, launched in July Investment performance Although risk appetite is established 2017, which addresses the wide range Beazleys profitability in 2017 was with reference to earnings volatility, of risks affecting both healthcare and supported by a very strong investment there are a number of risks that do not technology companies in the fastperformance.
Our financial assets necessarily have an immediate financial growing telemedicine market.
returned $138.3m, or 2.9% 2016: consequence but which are taken into $93.1m, 2.0%.
Signs of strength in account by our processes.
Reputational Sometimes product adaptation can the global economy helped equities risk is one example.
The qualitative risk be as important as pure innovation.
and corporate credit exposures to rally appetite statements first introduced in In November, we relaunched our strongly throughout much of the year, 2015 have helped business functions market-leading cyber product for small generating good returns on these prioritise activity within their teams to and mid sized businesses, Beazley elements of our portfolio.
However, ensure that all parts of the business Breach Response BBR.
When the expectations of higher US interest operate as the board expects.
product was first launched in 2009, the rates led to rising yields later in the strongest demand was for liability cover year, adversely impacting the value The latest chief risk officer report to and breach response services following of our bond exposures.
the board confirmed that the control the loss or theft of large numbers of environment has not identified any customer records.
This need has not significant failings or weaknesses in gone away, but recent cyber attacks key processes and that Beazley is have sensitised other organisations, operating within risk appetite as at Investment return such as manufacturers, to the 31 December 2017. operational risks they face.
The new BBR offers far broader protection against first party risks such as business interruption.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 21 Clive Washbourn also stepped down Also, as in 2017, we will continue to Board changes from the board in 2017 but will remain rely heavily on the preparedness of our In October 2017, we announced the an important part of the executive claims teams to redeem the promises appointment of David Roberts as a committee heading up our marine that our underwriters have made.
I am very grateful for Clives chairman of Nationwide Building Society contribution to the board and am The breadth of our expertise in all since July 2015 and during his career delighted we will continue to benefit these areas means that we can innovate has served as an executive director at from Clives expertise through the in ways that benefit our clients and Barclays Bank and deputy chairman at executive committee.
our brokers but without necessarily Lloyds Banking Group.
He will take up assuming more underwriting risk.
the position of non-executive chairman Insurance is, for the most part, a following the annual general meeting in Outlook complicated, jargon-laden business and Some variations in profitability, year on March 2018, succeeding Dennis Holt anything we can do to make our clients who will step down from the board year, should be expected in a business lives simpler and easier is likely to be such as ours that specialises in having served two full three year terms rewarded with increased loyalty.
assuming the risks of others.
However is particularly true of small business over the years we have built a portfolio clients that do not employ professional Dennis took on the role of non-executive that is expressly designed to cushion risk managers.
Last year we simplified the shocks that will inevitably occur chairman in March 2012.
During his and streamlined our data breach tenure, Beazley has achieved premium from time to time in individual lines product, BBR, while expanding the cover of business.
As such we were able to growth of 37% in often challenging offered.
We are committed to providing market conditions, an average return obtain an average combined ratio of beautifully designed insurance across 99% across all divisions.
on equity of 17%, and ordinary our product range and see considerable dividend growth of 5-6% annually.
scope for further simplification of Our business model should, equally, policies and processes.
During this period, the board has prove well adapted to the more favourable market conditions now benefited enormously from his sound A well established design precept is judgement and guidance, and his prevailing.
Our underwriters have shown sometimes expressed as what you patience and discipline through a influence has been widely felt and see is what you get, meaning that appreciated across the company.
The difficult period during which the supply there should be no mismatch between of capital in many parts of our market antithesis of an ivory tower chairman, the way in which a product or service Dennis has engaged consistently with significantly outstripped demand, is sold and the way in which it performs.
resulting in steadily falling prices.
colleagues at all levels within the It is a precept we have long sought to organisation, always looking for ways Through this period we have continued apply at Beazley in relation to all of our to invest in talent and today we employ in which we can build on our successes stakeholders.
Todays world offers and learn from our failures.
We are 117 more underwriters than we did in enough surprises: we have no desire 2011, the last year in which premium immensely grateful to him.
rates were significantly affected by catastrophe losses.
In a catastrophe year such as that of 2017, a short term reduction in profits Looking ahead, the expertise and is inevitable.
However, with appropriate dedication of our underwriters will cycle management and a balanced be a necessary but not sufficient portfolio of business, the temporary condition for profitable growth.
We reduction in profits can be minimised are also looking to our technology before deploying resources to take and operations teams to enhance our advantage of improving underwriting underwriters productivity and ensure conditions.
they have the data they need to make well informed decisions.
Andrew Horton Chief executive 7 February 2018
