10 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT ANOTHER YEAR OF DELIVERY avid Sleath reports on SEGROs performance during the past year Dandlooks to the future.
2017 has been another year of delivery for SEGRO, culminating in strong financial results and a significantly improved capital structure.
Our focus on Operational Excellence and Disciplined Capital Allocation has delivered some of our best ever operating metrics, a record volume of almost fully IN 2017, SEGRO HAS DELIVERED leased completed developments, greater scale in our STRONG OPERATING METRICS, target markets and a 16 per cent increase our EPRA NAV.
Our modern, well-located assets, our current AND IT HAS BEEN A RECORD development pipeline and our land bank all offer significant opportunities for future growth.
Our main achievements in 2017 include: DAVID SLEATH CHIEF EXECUTIVE The acquisition of 702 million of buildings and development land primarily taking full ownership of the Airport Property Partnership APP portfolio FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS in locations with strong occupier demand, and disposal of 525 million of buildings and land to ADJUSTED PROFIT IFRS PROFIT release funds for further growth: 1 BEFORE TAX BEFORE TAX Continued active management of our existing properties to ensure customers want to stay with us for longer, achieving high customer 194.2m 976.3m satisfaction results: Completion of the largest volume of developments 2016: 154.5m 2016: 426.4m in any year of the Companys history, building 654,900 sq m of properties to high environmental standards, almost all of which have now ADJUSTED IFRS been leased: 1 EARNINGS PER SHARE EARNINGS PER SHARE Contracting 53.5 million of new rent, 19 per cent more than last year: and 19.9p 98.5p Raised 573 million of new equity and raised or refinanced 2.1 billion of debt to ensure that 3 3 our balance sheet is in a strong position to take 2016: 18.8p 2016: 53.9p advantage of future opportunities.
Our results reflect this activity: adjusted profit before EPRA NAV IFRS NAV tax is up 25.7 per cent to 194.2 million IFRS: 1 PER SHARE PER SHARE 976.3 million, up 129 per cent and adjusted earnings per share are up 5.9 per cent to 19.9 pence IFRS: 98.5 pence, up 91 per cent.
Our EPRA NAV 556p 554p per share is up 16.3 per cent to 556 pence IFRS: 554pence, up 15 per cent, driven substantially by a 13.6 per cent increase in our portfolio value, 3 3 2016: 478p 2016: 480p which now totals 8.0 billion reflecting our share of9.3 billion of assets under management.
PORTFOLIO TOTAL DIVIDEND 2 VALUE PER SHARE 8.0bn 16.6p 3 2016: 6.3bn 2016: 15.7p 11 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have also taken significant steps to improve our capital structure, reducing our average cost of debt to 2.1 per cent 31 December 2016: 3.4 per cent and extending the duration of our debt to 10.8 years 31 December 2016: 6.2 years.
SEGRO remains conservatively funded with a loan-to-value ratio of 30per cent.
The combination of a strong set of financial results in 2017 and our optimistic outlook for 2018 and beyond means that we are recommending a final dividend of 11.35 pence, an increase of 6.1 per cent.
SUPPORTIVE MARKET ENVIRONMENT The economic environment across our markets has remained supportive, with a particular improvement in sentiment in France and more generally across Continental Europe.
In tandem, e-commerce continues to take a greater share of retail sales across all of our markets.
The combination of these factors has resulted in robust levels of occupier demand for welllocated, high quality warehouse space from retailers, third party logistics operators and parcel delivery companies, among others.
At the same time, supply of new warehousing remains stable and is particularly constrained in our urban markets where competition from higher value uses such as residential is a significant barrier to entry for industrial developers without land on which to build.
This favourable demand-supply balance has translated into strong demand for our developments, both pre-lets and those built speculatively, as well as rental value ERV growth in a number of our markets, most apparent in the UK, but also in urban warehouses in France and Germany.
The positive occupier market conditions and low interest rates across Europe have continued to drive investor interest: according to data from CBRE, industrial investment volumes across Europe increased by 67 per cent, significantly influenced by two large, pan-European warehouse portfolios which were sold Important Explanatory Notes about Alternative Performance Metrics used in this Report during the year to global investors.
Industrial asset 1 EPRA and Adjusted metrics: TheFinancial Statements are prepared under IFRS.
SEGRO management monitors a values have also improved further, reflected in yields number of adjusted performance indicators in assessing and managing the performance of the business which they which are around 30 to 40 basis points lower than a believe reflect the underlying recurring performance of the property rental business which is the Groups core operating year ago.
These include those defined by EPRA as part of their mission to establish consistency of calculation across the European listed real estate sector.
Pages 125-126 contain more information about the adjustments and the reconciliation of these to IFRS equivalents.
2 Proportionally consolidated figures and metrics: SEGRO owns assets both wholly itself and through stakes in 50-50 joint ventures.
In the Financial Statements, the profit from joint ventures is stated as a single figure in the Income Statement and the net asset value of joint ventures is stated as a single equity figure on the Balance Sheet: Note 7 to the Financial Statements provides the component parts of these figures.
In operational terms, SEGRO does not distinguish between assets held in joint ventures from those assets which are wholly-owned.
Therefore, unless specifically stated, in the Strategic Report, performance metrics and financial figures are stated reflecting SEGROs wholly-owned assets and its share of joint venture assets known commonly as a proportionally consolidated basis.
Where the Strategic Report refers to the area of a property, it is stated at 100 per cent of the space, irrespective of whether the property iswhollyowned or held in a joint venture.
3 During the year, SEGRO undertook a Rights Issue.
The 2016 adjusted earnings, total dividend and EPRA NAV per share metrics have been restated in the accounts following the Rights Issue in order to provide a comparable basis for the current year.
The adjustment factor for the Rights Issue is 1.046, which adjusts for the discount element of the Rights Issue.
Further information on this is included in Note 14 to the Accounts.
12 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT ANOTHER YEAR OF DELIVERY CONTINUED DELIVERING INCREASING HIGH QUALITY, SUSTAINABLE PORTFOLIO ENTERING 2018 WITH CONFIDENCE DIVIDENDS Our unique portfolio of big box and urban Occupier demand in early 2018 is strong across warehouses in key European transport hubs and all our markets and there is no evidence of any population centres has allowed us to make the most 16.6p imminent over-supply of modern warehouse space.
of economic growth across Europe and, in particular, The prospects for rental growth, particularly in the to capitalise on the changing nature of retailing UK, remain good, and rental values in our urban towards e-commerce and consumer convenience.
warehouse portfolio in Continental Europe are also The portfolio is well let, with a vacancy rate of 4.0 per increasing.
The structural drivers of demand in our cent and a weighted average lease term of 7.4 years, sector urbanisation, growth of the digital economy both improving from a year ago.
These operating and e-commerce are likely to underpin occupier metrics are reflected in the findings of our annual demand for some time to come.
customer satisfaction survey in which 87 per cent of Investor demand for prime warehouses also our customers rated SEGRO as Good or Excellent.
remains healthy, attracted by the favourable The portfolio was strengthened by the acquisition occupational market fundamentals and the relatively of the outstanding 50 per cent interest in the APP attractive yields in a low interest rate environment.
portfolio which gives us full ownership of this The outlook for capital growth is difficult to assess, irreplaceable collection of properties with enviable aswe have little control over the multitude of drivers, access to Londons major airports, particularly particularly macroeconomic and political.
In addition, our development pipeline we are confident that our high quality portfolio and delivered 654,900 sq m of warehousing for a wide our focus on asset management will enable us to variety of customers across our major markets, in outperform the wider market.
all cases adhering to our exacting sustainability The work we have undertaken in recent years to standards and helping us meet our SEGRO 2020 improve the quality and focus of our portfolio and environmental targets.
strengthen our balance sheet means that we are well placed both to take advantage of the opportunities 1 OUR TALENTED PEOPLE and to overcome the challenges that the future 7 may bring.
6 SEGROs culture and working environment are Our portfolio is in a strong position, we are well critical to ensuring that we attract and retain the most capitalised, and we enter 2018 with confidence.
In 2015, we drew on the experience 5 We continue to see opportunities to grow our and opinions of all of our people to establish our business through further disciplined investment, active Purpose and Values, and these are at the heart of how management of our portfolio and a prudent approach we work together and with all our stakeholders.
Our warehouses are occupied by a Over 300 people are employed at SEGRO in 11 diverse range of customers and businesses and we will offices across Europe and we work hard to ensure continue to respond to their needs, creating the space 3 2 that they are able to meet, mix and share ideas with that enables extraordinary things to happen.
We encourage shortand longer-term HIGH QUALITY secondments between offices and countries, and we EUROPEAN PORTFOLIO have invested in a new social media-style intranet site BY VALUE, SEGRO SHARE to enhance internal communication and discussion.
Greater London 40% We are also passionate about enabling our people 2.
Thames Valley 18% to achieve career and personal ambitions through 3.
Midlands Big Box 10% investment in training courses, flexible working 4.
Germany 10% conditions and time off to pursue charitable activities.
The success of SEGRO is a reflection of the hard 5.
France 8% work and the talent of our people and I am grateful 6.
Poland 5% to all of them for the part they have played in making 7.
Rest of Europe 9% 2017 such an outstanding year.
