4 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Chief Executive Officers report Strategic direction Our number one strategic priority is the organic development of increasingly sophisticated information-based analytics and decision tools that deliver enhanced value to professional and business customers across the industries that we serve.
Our goal is to help our customers make better decisions, get better results and be more productive.
We do this by leveraging a deep understanding of our customers to create innovative solutions which combine content and data with analytics and technology in global platforms.
These solutions often account for about 1% of our customers total cost base but can have a significant and positive impact on the economics of the remaining 99%.
We aim to build leading positions in long-term global growth markets and leverage our skills, assets and resources across RELX Group, both to build solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
Erik Engstrom Chief Executive officer We are systematically migrating all of our information solutions across RELX Group towards higher value-add decision tools, adding broader datasets, embedding more sophisticated analytics Our number one priority is and leveraging more powerful technology, primarily through organic development.
the organic development of We are transforming our core business, building out new products and expanding into higher growth adjacencies and geographies.
increasingly sophisticated We are supplementing this organic development with selective acquisitions of targeted data sets and analytics, and assets in information-based analytics high-growth markets that support our organic growth strategies, and are natural additions to our existing businesses.
and decision tools that deliver By focusing on evolving the fundamentals of our business we enhanced value to our customers.
believe that, over time, we are improving our business prole and the quality of our earnings.
This is leading to more predictable revenues through a better asset mix and geographic balance: a higher growth prole by expanding in higher growth segments, exiting from structurally challenged businesses and gradually reducing the drag from print format declines: and improved returns by focusing on organic development with strong cash generation.
UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT GROWTH 6% 6% 5% 5% 5% 4% 4% 3% 3% 3% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Chief Executive Ofcers report 5 2017 progress Financial performance We achieved good underlying revenue growth in 2017, and Our positive financial performance continued throughout 2017, continued to generate underlying adjusted operating profit with underlying revenue and operating profit growth across growth ahead of revenue growth.
The underlying growth rate all four business areas.
reects good growth in electronic and face-to-face revenues Underlying operating profit growth was 6%, and adjusted 89% of the total, and the further development of our analytics earnings per share grew 7% at constant currencies.
Key business trends in our scientific, Technical & Medical With a strong balance sheet and an inherently cash-generative business remained positive, with underlying profit growth business, the strategic priority order for using our cash is slightly exceeding underlying revenue growth.
First, to invest in the organic development of our Underlying revenue growth remained strong across all key businesses to drive underlying revenue growth: second to segments at Risk & Business Analytics.
Underlying profit support our organic growth strategy with targeted acquisitions: growth broadly matched underlying revenue growth.
third to grow dividends predictably, broadly in line with EPS growth: fourth to maintain our leverage in a comfortable range: Underlying revenue growth in Legal was in line with the prior and nally use any remaining cash to buy back shares.
As part year with continued efficiency gains driving strong underlying of this we bought back shares for 700m in 2017, and announced operating profit growth.
Exhibitions achieved strong underlying revenue growth, slightly We continued to focus our acquisitions on select, targeted data ahead of the prior year, with underlying operating profit growth sets and analytics, and assets in high growth markets that reecting cycling-out effects.
support our organic growth strategies.
We completed eight acquisitions of small content, data analytics and exhibition assets for a total consideration of 123m, and disposed of 17 assets for a total of 87m.
Since the year end, we have entered into an agreement to acquire ThreatMetrix, a leader in the global risk-based authentication sector, for 580m.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE GROWTH RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL Constant currency 13.0% 13.1% 12.8% 12.7% 12.1% 10% 8% 8% 7% 7% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 6 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Corporate responsibility Outlook In 2017, we undertook a corporate responsibility stakeholder Key business trends in the early part of 2018 are consistent with survey to understand the issues employees, customers, 2017, and we are confident that, by continuing to execute on our investors, suppliers, peers and others feel are important to RELX strategy, we will deliver another year of underlying growth in Group.
They identied data privacy and security and having the revenue and in adjusted operating profit, together with growth right people as having the biggest potential impact on RELX Group, in adjusted earnings per share on a constant currency basis.
and RELX Groups unique contributions universal, sustainable access to information, advance of science and health, protection Erik Engstrom of society, promotion of the rule of law and access to justice and Chief Executive officer fostering communities as our biggest impact on society.
We advanced corresponding objectives in the year, including expanding fraud prevention and progressing cyber security awareness.
We continued to tighten technology controls, and provided training, including through employee simulations, to reduce susceptibility to phishing attacks.
