com Q&A with the chief executive Q Premium rates for US Andrew Horton catastrophe-exposed business have reacted tolast years events.
How reviews Beazleys sustainable do you expect these adjustments to be?
performance and  describestherisks into insurance markets in the wake of major catastrophes for many years and opportunities now, turning what used to be a he foresees in 2018 plateau of higher rates into more of a peak.
However the wild card this time will be the attitude of non traditional capital providers, such as pension funds, a number of whom sustained heavy losses last year.
We still do not know to what degree they will reload.
That could have a major bearing on the levels at which prices settle.
Q In 2017, 41 cents in every dollarBeazley received in premiums went to pay expenses, of which distribution costs were by far the largest component.
How can the insurance industry become more efficient?
We launched a new Beazley syndicate in 2017 which will start underwriting in 2018 with one aspect of this issue in mind.
We see broker facilities in which syndicates agree to write an entire book of  way of providing follow capacity than Andrew Horton a broker going from syndicate to Chief executive syndicate to complete the slip.
We are  Lloyds market and win a share of this One weak area remains the lack Q How would you rate the business, which doesnt clash with  performance of the insurance the ability of our existing syndicates US.
According to data collated by industry in responding to the to select and lead individual risks.
the US Federal Emergency massive damage and disruption Management Agency FEMA, only caused by storms, earthquakes We accordingly launched syndicate 17% of homeowners in the eight andwildfires in 2017?
5623 to write a portfolio of facilities counties most directly affected by Generally speaking, we did well.
supported by external investors  By the end of November Lloyds with a lower cost of capital.
That of course is a matter reported that around $2bn had been we expect, deliver lower returns and of individual choice, but our industry paid out by the Lloyds market, of lower volatility than our existing could do a better job in helping which were proud to be a part, to syndicates, which are backed by our people understand the risk.
Houston, help people rebuild in the US, the own capital.
Our own syndicate 3623 as has been frequently said, has Caribbean and Mexico.
Enhanced will underwrite the facilities and been visited by three one-in-500 satellite imagery is speeding the then reinsure them to syndicate year storms in three years.
Beazley will retain 25% of the portfolio directly through 3623 as well as having a share of 5623, providing capital through a Beazley corporate member.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 23 Overall, I believe that the costs Q The economic fundamentals of Q Do you expect the recent associated with transacting the European Union look stronger reforms of US taxation to affect insurance remain too high, and we today than at any time in recent Beazley?
hope syndicate 5623 will help lead years.
How important are European The over-riding objective of these to a reduction in these costs of markets to Beazley?
reforms is to stimulate the US doing business in London and, Today, Europe is not a major market economy.
If they are successful this therefore, a widening of our markets for us.
Tomorrow, we hope, it will be should be good for Beazley, as the underwriting appetite.
At present US is our largest market and it may about 15% of our total business also cause US interest rates to rise derives from Europe and 4% from Q How do you see technology, which will boost our investment the EU excluding the UK.
We have including new sources and uses of earnings.
There are aspects of the data, changing Beazleys business in plans to grow this business legislation that affect companies that the next five years?
, are doing business in the US using particularly for our specialty lines Every year our operations get more structures that involve overseas products, and we have been actively  companies, but we do not expect hiring talent during 2017.
Infiveyearstimewe  strong demand for cyber, management  on Beazley.
liability and medical malpractice the availability of our products insurance in Europe and we believe available on e-trading platforms.
Q Is the reinsurance that Beazley  We also plan to harness advances buys for itself going tobe much more will value our products and expertise.
in technologies such as natural expensive following the catastrophes We do not expect Brexit to be an language processing and robotics to in2017?
impediment to European growth: we eliminate much of the low complexity The results of our reinsurers have will access business after Brexit both manual intervention in the end-togenerally been excellent which is through Lloyds and through our new end underwriting and claims testament to our philosophy of Dublin-based insurance company, process.
Improvements in the way  which was authorised in 2017. we capture our data, and access to reinsurance.
Quite a lot of our previously untapped data sources reinsurance is purchased on a for example from social media or Q Reserve releases contributed proportional basis and so our the internet of things present us strongly to Beazleys pre-tax profits reinsurers will share any price with opportunities to make more in 2017.
Can we expect substantial increases we get.
On the non informed underwriting and claims releases tocontinue?
proportional side we have to expect decisions, more quickly.
Finally, as Beazley concentrates on setting some increases, but the 2017 events a leading insurer of technology and reserves consistently over time.
didnt hit our cover very hard, the technology industry, all of this If our initial opening reserves are set .
change should create new in a consistent way with a margin for opportunities for us to grow.
prudence, then, all other things being Q What keeps you up at night?
equal, well continue to see the same levels of reserve release, although Generally I sleep very well!
I am there may well be a slight dip in 2018 concerned, however, at the stubbornly as we start the year with the margin high costs of our industrys products, at the bottom of the range we target which are fuelled, I believe, by following the 2017 catastrophe events.
We should be giving more back to our One of Beazleys great strengths clients in claims and we cannot do is our presence in a wide range of that because our costs for writing different specialist markets driven and placing insurance are too high.
by different cycles and trends.
Whilst the total reserve release at Beazley  is very consistent, the teams that me up at night is the money that we contribute the most can change .
Ifind quite markedly over a period of two it odd when people commiserate or three years.
with me over heavy claims.
It is why were in business and more than that its why Im proud to be in the insurance business.
