Chief Executives review Putting the past behind us.
In 2017 we continued to make good progress in building a simpler, safer and more customer focused bank.
I am pleased to report to shareholders that the bank made an operating profit before tax of 2,239 million in 2017, and for the first time in ten years we have delivered a Ross McEwan bottom Iine profit of 752 million.
Chief Executive We have achieved profitability through with FHFA in respect of our historical delivering on the strategic plan that Retail Mortgage Backed Securities was set out in 2014.
The first part of this RMBS activities and with claimants plan was focused on building financial in relation to our 2008 Rights Issue.
In strength by reducing risk and building 2017 we also continued to run down our a more sustainable cost base.
The wind-up of our nonwe have reduced our risk-weighted core division, Capital Resolution in 2017, assets by 228 billion and today can was an important moment.
report a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio As part of the support we received in of 15.9% up from 8.6% in 2013.
Our 2008 and 2009, the bank was mandated financial strength is now much clearer.
to meet certain requirements under a Over the same period we have reduced State Aid restructuring plan.
In 2017, operating costs by 3.9 billion.
We still we received approval for an alternative have more to do on cost reduction, remedies package, which replaced our however this reflects the progress we original plan to divest of the business have made in making the bank more formally known as Williams & Glyn.
is a good solution, both for improving A clear indication of the outstanding competition in the UK SME banking progress we have made is that from the market, and for shareholders.
first quarter of 2018, we will no longer With this solution in place and currently report adjusted financials.
being implemented, the number of At the same time as building financial legacy issues the bank faces has strength, we have also made progress reduced.
However, we have one major with the legacy of our past and legacy issue that we have yet to resolve improving our core bank.
We have which is with the US Department of delivered on this by resolving a number Justice.
The timing of the resolution of of our litigation and conduct issues.
This this issue is not in our control.
includes reaching settlements last year 09 Chief Executives review The bank has received significant media We are going through all of our end-toListening to our customers is not only attention for its treatment of some small end customer processes to ensure they reducing complaints, its also driving business customers between 2008 and are fit for purpose.
To those customers who did not In our commercial bank for instance, Our mortgage application journey is receive the experience they should have in response to customers demand for done while in GRG we have apologised.
experienced by thousands of customers greater speed and efficiency, we have every day.
With one of our strategic We accept that we got a lot wrong in developed self service account opening.
how we treated customers in GRG aims being to grow in this market, Through this channel more than 90% of the benefits of simplification and during the crisis.
However, these were our new to bank commercial customers complex and subjective cases with automation in this area are vast.
Given are able to initiate account openings this, in 2017 NatWest was the first UK each case having unique facts about themselves and, crucially, are doing what was the right thing to do.
The bank to offer paperless mortgages.
it 30 minutes faster than if they used Customers can now apply for a bank welcomes the FCAs confirmation telephony.
Customers told us this that the most serious allegations made completely digital mortgage which uses was a pain point for them and we the latest technology to securely share against the bank have not been upheld have responded.
and that the steps the bank announced and verify documents online.
With this Listening to our customers and new proposition, mortgage offers can in November 2016 to put things right for investing to simplifying our processes is customers are appropriate.
now be made within 11 days, down helping us build a bank which is lower from 23 days before.
The process also cost, and competitive in our target eliminates close to 4.3 million sheets of We have made significant progress in markets improving outcomes for both paper a year, reducing our impact on improving our culture since then.
Today this bank is a simpler and safer We are committed to running the The opportunities created by greater organisation, with colleagues now fully bank as a more sustainable business, simplification and automation, in terms focused on our customers.
serving todays customers in a way of improved controls, cost reduction that also helps future generations.
As I want to thank our colleagues for their and a better customer experience, technological, social and environmental commitment and resolve during what are significant for this bank.
changes shape the world, its important has been a difficult chapter in the banks to stay connected with evolving history.
Our most recent colleague As well as transforming our processes customer needs, our shareholders and survey, Our View, reported the highest and products, in 2017 we continued to the wider expectations of society.
One engagement levels in ten years.
We reap the benefits of refocusing our main of the ways in which we are doing this also recently won the Employee customer-facing brands.
With each is through our Board-level stakeholder Engagement Company of the Year now speaking to a unique constituency engagement programme where we at the UK Employee Engagement of customers, we are better placed proactively listen, learn and engage Awards.
This shows that our culture is to differentiate ourselves from our with our stakeholders to improve the improving.
This bank is now more open, competitors.
With NatWest for England way we do business.
less hierarchical and more focused on and Wales, Royal Bank of Scotland, our customers.
Our colleagues serve for Scotland and Ulster Bank for the Supporting the UK economy and support millions of customers island of Ireland we truly are a bank of While transforming the bank, we have across the UK and Republic of Ireland brands in the UK and the Republic continued to support the UK economy.
every day, it is vital to our success that of Ireland.
In 2017 we extended 33.9 billion in they feel engaged and motivated.
new mortgage lending, helping grow Customer driven change our mortgage market share for the fifth Investing to transform our business Listening and responding to our consecutive year.
We continue to target When I started as CEO in 2014 the bank customers is helping us to get closer growth in our mortgage market share was far too complex.
We operated in to meeting our goal to be No.
38 countries, with over 5,000 systems of this we have continued with the roll supporting hundreds of different out of Closed Loop Feedback in 2017.
We are also the biggest supporter of products.
In our credit card business Today, within 24 hours of an interaction UK business.
Our commercial bank alone we offered 55 different card taking place, customers can provide grew lending in our target markets, designs, as the organisation had grown specific, actionable feedback directly to this commitment supported both we had added complexity which the teams that serve them, empowering recognised household names and distracted us from our key stakeholder, colleagues to listen, learn from and fledgling start-ups.
Our customers want a act on what our customers are telling to business goes beyond simple bank which protects their safety and us.
With our complaints volumes down financing, our Entrepreneurial Spark security, and is also responsive to 9% on the previous year, and our Net programme continued to grow in 2017 their needs.
Promoter scores improving in half of and has supported over 3,800 new our chosen customer segments, we businesses since 2012 with awardcontinue to see the benefits of customer winning facilities and an outstanding Today we have exited 26 countries and now have a more focused product driven change in this bank.
Our work is also being have a lot of work to do to meet our recognised externally.
In 2017 NatWest set, underpinned by almost half the number of systems we previously had.
2020 ambition of being the number was awarded Best Business Bank in one bank for customer service, the UK by the National Association of Simplification will continue to be a key focus for the organisation in 2018. trust and advocacy.
10 Throughout 2017 NatWest Markets and efficiency they can experience success with customers telling us that has continued to deepen its customer through using our digital channels.
using Cora made them less concerned relationships by providing global about converting to our other digital market access and innovative and In our commercial bank, we are channels.
While many customers felt supporting customers shift to mobile tailored solutions.
As well as increasing empowered to be more direct in their employee engagement and improving through building our online service questioning of Cora, as they felt much Bankline service into an app.
Currently, the control environment, the business safer and more secure with her.
has made material progress to realise 90,000 commercial customers are Through digital innovation we will serve active on Bankline.
In the future we cost and operating efficiencies.
customers more efficiently, be more expect this to move increasingly to Responding to technological change responsive to their needs and at the mobile.
In 2018, we will also launch The financial services industry is going same reduce costs in the business and Bankline mobile for our larger through one of the most significant build a more solid control environment.
This new periods of change we have seen in service will act as a companion to our Looking forward many years, and we are responding.
In the past our legacy has dominated Initially, customers will be able to view Like other industries, the digital our corporate story.
In 2017 our transactions and send payments with revolution has naturally led to lower financial strength improved and we biometric approval.
In the coming footfall in our branches.
Branch continued to put the past behind quarters we will further expand the transactions are down 40% on 2013, us.
We are entering a new phase of scope of what Bankline Mobile offers.
as increasingly our customers prefer transforming the core bank through the convenience and ease of digital technology innovation and end-to-end Embracing the latest in digital banking.
Given this we have made process re-engineering.
Our future innovation some difficult, but necessary, decisions will be high tech and high touch, which We know that we cannot stand still around the scale of our branch network means lower cost, high quality digital on innovation as our competitors in 2017.
This does not mean we are not services with human expertise available certainly are not.
Over the last few supporting our customers.
years we have invested in building our are providing customers more ways to partnerships and scouting networks Conclusion bank than ever before, be that through across the globe to ensure we are at I would like to thank shareholders for a visit to their local Post Office, a visit the cutting edge of technology.
We have their continued support.
We welcome from one of our 39 mobile branches, developed some excellent partnerships the indication in the Chancellors which visit over 600 towns and villages and one area we have advanced budget statement about the potential to on a weekly basis, meeting one of significantly in is Artificial restart share sales during the fiscal year our 100 community bankers, a digital Intelligence AI.
2018 2019, again this is a further proof appointment with one of our video of the progress we have made.
bankers, logging on to internet banking By harnessing the latest in computer platform, or banking on the go with learning and speech recognition, in We recognise our responsibility towards our market leading mobile app.
Our partnership with IBM, we have built the society we serve and operate in.
It is customers have never had as many an AI chatbot, called Cora.
Cora is only by supporting our customers and channels through which to undertake helping our customers with many of communities to succeed that we will their banking.
Crucially be become a more sustainable bank.
I, Cora is available 24 7, has no wait-time together with my management team, For the first time we now have more to serve a customer and can handle view this as a core part of our ambition active mobile users than users online, a an unlimited number of queries at the to be No.
1 for customer service, trust clear indication of the direction of travel same time.
Since Q1 2017 Cora has and advocacy.
of our customers banking preferences.
handled over four hundred thousand conversations responding to over two As the number of our legacy issues Our ambition is for the standard hundred different questions.
reduces, and our business performance of service we provide to always be improves, the investment case for this outstanding, no matter how our In partnership with Soul Machines, we bank is clearer, and the prospect of us customers choose to interact with us.
are investing now to build an evolution rewarding our shareholders is getting In 2018 our branches will increasingly of Cora for 2018, giving her a visual closer.
focus providing specialised expertise avatar acting as the interface with our and advice as well as on helping customers.
Initial trials are proving a customers tap into the wealth of ease In 2017 we continued to make good progress in building a simpler, safer and more customer focused bank.
11 2017 performance summary 2017 performance summary RBS reported its first bottom-line profit in ten years 2017 operating profit of 2,239 million, an increase of 6,321 million compared with 2016.
1,2 Adjusted operating profit increased by 31.1% to 4,818 million.
1 4.0% increase in adjusted income and an 8.1% reduction in adjusted 2 operating expenses driving a 12.1% improvement in operating leverage.
Net interest margin NIM reduced by 5 basis points to 2.13% compared with 2016.
3 Supported the UK economy through a 6.0 billion, or 2.2%, increase in net lending across PBB, CPB and RBSI.
Whilst behind our 3% target, this represents strong growth in a competitive environment.
Delivery against our 2017 targets Strategy goal 2017 target 2017 Strength and sustainability Maintain bank CET1 CET1 ratio of 15.9%: up 250 ratio of 13% basis points from 2016 Customer experience Significantly increase NPS or maintain We have achieved target in half our key No.
1 in chosen customer segments customer segments and Commercial Banking remains ahead of its main competitors.
Trust has improved for both NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland Simplifying the bank Reduce adjusted operating expenses Adjusted operating expenses down by at least 750 million 810 million, or 9.6%, excluding 2 VAT recoveries Supporting growth Net 3% growth on total PBB, Net customer loans in PBB, CPB, 3 CPB and RBSI loans to customers and RBSI up 2.2% for the year Employee engagement Improve employee Employee engagement improved by 7 engagement points to 83, 1 point above the GFS norm Notes: 1 Income excluding own credit adjustments 69 million loss 2016 - 180 million gain, loss on redemption of own debt 7 million 2016 - 126 million and strategic disposals 347 million 2016 - 164 million.
2 Operating expenses excluding litigation and conduct costs 1,285 million 2016 - 5,868 million, restructuring costs 1,565 million 2016 - 2,106 million and VAT recoveries of 86 million 2016 - 227 million.
See notes on page 15 for further details.
12 Continued track record of delivery Significant capital build Building a more sustainable bank against our stated objectives throughout 2017 O ur Board Sustainable Banking C ET1 ratio increased by 250 basis Committee hosted four stakeholder Grow income: Adjusted income points to 15.9%, despite absorbing engagement sessions, inviting a increased by 490 million, or 4.0%.
broad mix of stakeholders to share Cut costs: Excluding VAT their perspective on key issues recoveries, adjusted operating I FRS 9 adoption on 1 January 2018 with us.
2 expenses reduced by 810 million, increased CET1 by a further 30 R BS is a founding partner with the or 9.6%.
National Trading Standards Scam Reduce capital usage: Excluding Team on their Friends Against Prioritising transformation volume growth, RWAs reduced Scams initiative.
acceleration by 20.8 billion across PBB R BS was recognised by InfraDeals I ncreased investment and 0.6 billion, CPB 12.9 billion, as the leading lender to the UK innovation spend focused RBSI 4.4 billion and NatWest renewables sector by number of on achieving higher levels of Markets core 2.9 billion, already transactions over the past six years digitisation and automation.
F aster repositioning of the banks Resolve legacy issues: W e helped over one million existing distribution network and During 2017, RBS: customers with a free Financial technology platforms towards Wound up the former Capital Health Checks to help customers mobile, cloud based platforms and Resolution business.
Legacy RWAs organise their finances and virtualisation.
now represent around 11% of total: achieve their financial goals.
Received formal approval from W e supported over 3,830 the European Commission for its people through our enterprise alternative remedies package in programmes.
This includes the respect of the business previously following enterprise programmes: described as Williams & Glyn: and Entrepreneurial Spark, Princes Reached settlement with the Trust and Skills & Opportunities Federal Housing Finance Agency Fund.
FHFA and the California State Attorney General in the US and resolved the 2008 rights issue shareholder litigation.
15 minutes to apply for a business account The process of applying for an account with us is now quicker than ever for our business customers.
Using our new online service, business customers who are new to the bank can open their account at a time and place to suit them, and the whole process can be completed in less than the time it takes to enjoy a coffee break.
85% of new customers have opened accounts via our self-service offering since it became available in 2017, benefiting from a simpler, more efficient process that frees up more time for the things that really matter like running a business.
