Group Chief Executives Review Group Chief Executives Review HSBC is simpler, stronger and more secure than it was in 2011, and better able to connect customers to opportunities in the worlds fastest growing regions.
Business performance Retail Banking and Wealth Management had an excellent 2017, with strong adjusted revenue increases across a number of business lines.
In Retail Banking, interest rate rises helped to grow revenue as our robust balance sheet and capital strength continued to attract deposits, particularly in Hong Kong.
We continued to grow lending in our target markets, especially Hong Kong, the UK and Mexico.
Wealth Management benefited from improving customer investment appetite, strong product sales across all categories and the impact of market movements on our life insurance manufacturing businesses.
Stuart Gulliver Group Chief Executive Commercial Banking adjusted revenue grew well on the back of an outstanding performance in Global Liquidity and Cash Management.
Higher lending volumes helped Credit and Lending 2017 was an important year for HSBC.
We completed the transformation programme that overcome the impact of narrower spreads.
Global Trade and Receivables Finance revenue stabilised we started in 2015, maximising the benefits of our network and increasing our competitive after a difficult 2016 and we increased our share of major markets, including trade finance in advantages.
By the end of the year we had exceeded our risk-weighted asset and cost-saving Hong Kong and receivables finance in the UK.
HSBC was voted market leader for trade finance targets, rebuilt our Mexico business, delivered revenue growth from our international network in Euromoneys annual trade finance survey in January 2018. in excess of global economic growth, and accelerated investment in our operations in Asia.
Global Banking and Markets grew adjusted We also opened new businesses and launched revenue, driven particularly by strong growth products that considerably strengthen the service in Global Liquidity and Cash Management, that we offer our international clients.
Growth in the first three These achievements, and the work that preceded quarters of the year in Markets and Banking enabled both to withstand the effects of subdued them, were a critical factor in delivering a strong financial performance in 2017.
The strength of our market activity in the fourth quarter.
three main global businesses generated significant Global Private Banking adjusted revenue reflected increases in both reported and adjusted Group the impact of historical repositioning, but was profit before tax PBT, while reported PBT also stable over the course of 2017.
The business grew benefited from the non-recurrence of a number adjusted revenue by 10% in its target markets.
of large significant items from 2016.
Adjusted PBT Our strong revenue generation meant that the and adjusted revenue were up in four out of five Group achieved positive adjusted jaws in 2017. regions.
We grew adjusted revenue faster than We accelerated investment to grow the adjusted costs, and continued to increase our business, particularly in Retail Banking and market share in strategic product areas.
Wealth Management, which contributed to an increase in adjusted costs.
Performance-related compensation also grew in line with profit before tax.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | Group Chief Executive's Review Our international network is now much better Adjusted loan impairment charges were able to connect customers to opportunities and significantly lower than 2016, mainly due delivering revenue growth above that of the global to improved conditions in the oil and gas economy.
53% of client revenue now comes from industry in North America.
international clients, up from 50% in 2015.
Global Our strong common equity tier one ratio of 14.5% Liquidity and Cash Management in particular is included the effect of recent changes in US tax now a major component of the banks success, legislation, which reduced our capital position by and Global Trade and Receivables Finance has 9 basis points.
It also included the impact of our extended its leadership of the global trade most recent $2bn share buy-back.
returned a total of $3bn to shareholders through The Groups business mix is more oriented towards share buy-backs and paid more in dividends Asia, improving our ability to channel the economic than any other European or American bank.
and social changes taking place within the worlds We achieved this while maintaining one of the fastest growing region.
Asia contributes a larger strongest capital ratios in the industry.
proportion of the Groups profits than in 2015, reflecting regional investment in growing our loan book, building our insurance and asset management businesses, and connecting We have delivered excellent value to customers to opportunities within the region.
shareholders through a total shareholder return We continued to expand our presence in mainland of 70.3% from 2011 to the end of 2017.
China with the launch of new retail banking products and increased lending in the Pearl River Delta.
In December we launched HSBC Qianhai Securities, the first securities joint venture in Strategic actions mainland China to be majority-owned by an The strength of our business is due in large part international bank.
This allows us to offer our to the strategic actions that we first announced in clients increased access to Chinas rapidly June 2015.
This programme concluded at the end expanding capital markets and provides an of 2017 with eight out of ten actions completed on unprecedented opportunity to establish and grow time and on target see pages 12 to 13. a securities business in mainland China with strong international standards.
This underlines our status HSBC is much more capital efficient and capable as the leading international bank in mainland China.
of producing stronger returns for investors as a consequence of these actions.
Our cost-reduction We won a number of significant new business programmes have enabled us to absorb the cost of mandates related to the China-led Belt and Road growing the business and protecting HSBC from Initiative in 2017, and opened new China desks in financial crime, while improving the efficiency and Poland, Luxembourg, Thailand and Macau to security of our processes.
We now have a total of 24 China desks aimed at supporting Our previously underperforming Mexico business Chinese businesses with global outbound is increasingly profitable and well positioned for ambitions, 20 of which are along the Belt and further growth.
Whilst our US business remains Road routes.
In November we were named a work in progress, it is a valuable source of Best Bank for Belt and Road at the FinanceAsia business for other regions and continues to make Achievement Awards 2017. important progress.
We also completed the run-off of our legacy US consumer and mortgage lending portfolio, bringing an end to a difficult chapter in HSBCs recent history.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 8 Group Chief Executive's Review Thank you My sincere thanks go to all of my HSBC As I prepare to pass on the stewardship of HSBC to my successor, I am proud of our achievements colleagues around the world, past and present, of the last seven and a half years.
After the most whose hard work and commitment are the extensive transformation programme in HSBCs 153 year history, HSBC is simpler, stronger and foundation of the banks success.
more secure than it was in 2011, and better able to connect customers to opportunities in the worlds fastest growing regions.
We have also Fighting financial crime delivered excellent value to shareholders through For the past five years, we have been weaving a higher share price, $64.7bn in declared Global Standards into the fabric of HSBC.
The dividends and $5.5bn in share buy-backs, investment that we have made in our financial representing a total shareholder return of 70.3% crime risk management capabilities has from 2011 to the end of 2017. considerably strengthened our ability to protect I am pleased to be handing over to such a the integrity of the financial system.
We have capable successor as John Flint, whose assembled a highly expert team which is helping intimate knowledge of HSBC and its culture to shape the debate about our industrys role in will be a considerable asset to the bank and its the fight against financial crime.
I am grateful to my colleagues on the great strides in building a compliance function fit Group Management Board for their support for the many evolving challenges we face, and since 2011, and to Douglas Flint and Mark Tucker built partnerships to combat financial crime with for their backing.
regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world.
Finally, my sincere thanks go to all of my HSBC colleagues around the world, past and present, The expiration in December of the five-year whose hard work and commitment are the deferred prosecution agreement that we entered foundation of the banks success.
It has been my into with the US Department of Justice in 2012 privilege to work with them for the last 38 years.
AML DPA was an important milestone for HSBC.
Nevertheless, exiting the AML DPA was a product rather than the focus of the essential work that we have done to transform our compliance capabilities and protect the financial system.
This work will continue as we seek to ensure that the changes Stuart Gulliver we have made are effective and sustainable.
Group Chief Executive Combating financial crime is a never-ending 20 February 2018 exercise and will be a constant focus for the Groups management.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
