STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT BUILDING ON FIRM FOUNDATIONS DELIVERING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE we improved our underlying EBITDA margin by a further five percentage points.
Profit attributable to equity shareholders doubled from $1.6 billion to $3.2 billion.
And we ended the year showing a $4 billion reduction in net debt, at $4.5billion, well ahead of our target even after dividend payments.
Given where we are in the commodity price cycle, we intend to strengthen the balance sheet further in 2018.
Our return on capital employed ROCE improved to 19%, above our targeted 15% through-the-cycle return.
While an individual year is too short a period to assess returns, our focus on ROCE, as set out in 2013, is one of the key measures around which our decisions are made.
In delivering improved free cash flow, we were also in a position to restore dividend payments six months early, while also regaining our investment grade rating.
Combined with the proposed final dividend payment of 54 cents We have transformed the nature and per share, payable in May 2018, total dividends paid to quality of our portfolio, contributing to shareholders in respect of 2017 will amount to $1.02 per share.
As stated previously, dividend payments will be based Anglo Americans materially improved on a targeted payout level of 40% of underlying earnings performance and prospects.
through the commodity price cycle.
Mark Cutifani, Chief Executive OPERATING PERFORMANCE At the heart of the business turnaround is the implementation of our Operating Model.
In 2017, we delivered 9% more Our focus on quality assets and the portfolio decisions product, at a 26% lower unit cost, compared to our 2012 that we made through the commodities down cycle, baseline.
Over five years, that represents an 80% along with internal restructuring and work process productivity increase and 28% in 2017 alone.
In dollar changes, have built the firm foundations for our terms, we exceeded our 2017 cost and volume improvement broad-based business delivery.
Combined with target, delivering $1.1 billion.
Over five years, that is an improved price environment, we have delivered a $4.2 billion of annual underlying EBITDA improvement.
This reflects a renewed sense improvements are generally achieved without additional of purpose in our people and their determination to capital, so we continue to improve our ability to generate deliver results through the cycle.
free cash flow and increase returns from existing capital employed.
While we have delivered a material operational SAFETY turnaround in recent years, we still believe there is significant further improvement ahead.
In 2018, we expect a further Our safety record in 2017 is deeply saddening and was $800 million of benefit and, by 2022, we are targeting an our single disappointment.
We lost nine of our people in fatal additional $3-4 billion annual underlying EBITDA run-rate accidents, all in South Africa.
Every leader in our business improvement from production volumes, productivity understands it is unacceptable to continue to work where improvements and cost reductions.
there is a likely consequence of injury.
Let me assure you that we have made significant and urgent operational interventions to manage activity risks to end fatal incidents PORTFOLIO across all operations.
Safety is our most critical area of focus, The quality, long life and growth potential of our mineral and while we must recognise significant progress over recent assets are the foundation of our global business.
Over the years, reducing our safety incident rates by more than 40%, last five years, we have transformed the nature and quality we still have a long way to go on our journey to zero harm.
of Anglo Americans portfolio, contributing to the materially improved financial and operational performance.
We have FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE moved from a total of 68 assets in early 2013 to 36.
The discipline of divesting assets that do not meet our return Cash flow is our ultimate measure of business performance criteria or long term value potential will continue.
We will while returns on capital assess whether we are using also continue to pursue a prudent portfolio balance where shareholders funds in a prudent and efficient manner.
concentration in a single commodity, geography or end-user We set out to further strengthen the balance sheet in 2017 market is closely scrutinised to ensure we do not overweight and we have done so through a combination of wide-ranging capital allocation based on a single consideration.
self-help work, in terms of productivity and costs and As we divest less attractive assets, we replace them with capital discipline, along with receiving better than expected assets of a higher quality and cash generation profile, thereby prices for many of our products.
In 2017, we generated a lifting the overall quality of the portfolio.
New portfolio 93% increase in attributable free cash flow to $4.9billion.
contributors include Grosvenor in Metallurgical Coal, Underlying EBITDA increased by 45% to $8.8 billion and 08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Gahcho Ku at fide Beers and the Minas-Rio iron ore mine, embedded our Organisation Model across the Group, all in ramp-up mode, while we also progress undeveloped providing clarity of accountabilities and minimisation of work options, ensuring a well-phased organic growth pipeline.
duplication, thereby increasing our aggregate effectiveness Our most advanced option is the Quellaveco copper deposit and efficiencies.
And, we are working hard to create working in southern Peru, which benefits from considerable local environments and an inclusive and diverse culture that community and government support, and that we expect encourage the high performance and innovative thinking to bring to the Board for consideration during 2018. that our business requires to retain its commercial and competitive advantage.
INNOVATION FUTURESMART MINING CAPITAL ALLOCATION From resource exploration and discovery, and through every step of the value chain to delivering our products Our value-based approach to capital allocation ensures we into our customers hands, FutureSmart Mining is have a business that: delivers sustainable free cash flow Anglo Americans innovation-led approach to sustainable with returns well above our weighted average cost of capital: mining.
Working in partnership beyond mining, we are that delivers returns of cash to shareholders in the form of looking well beyond our own industry to re-imagine the dividends: and that can grow where we see opportunities to future of mining, using open-innovation principles and materially improve our delivery of cash flow and returns over partnerships to find solutions that will materially improve the longer term.
Our targeted 40% dividend payout ratio efficiencies and our competitive positions.
recognises the importance of disciplined decision-making through the cycle, while potential growth investments The technologies we are developing will fundamentally must of course demonstrate their value.
We are then clear change the way we extract and process our products and will that in the event of there being excess cash, this is returned provide the next step-change in operating performance to shareholders.
creating significant safety improvements and major energy, water and capital cost savings.
From technologies that are available today, to those such as swarm robotics and the use OUTLOOK of dry water, the future of mining will be very different to the With a relatively broad-based global growth outlook, extent that previously inaccessible or uneconomic orebodies the expectation is for continued growth in most major will become mineable, both technically and in an acceptable economies in 2018.
However, we are suitably conservative way to our host communities and countries.
We intend to in our planning assumptions and we will continue to drive remain at the forefront of this revolution.
improvements across the business to deliver free cash flow Sustainability and to continue our balance sheet strengthening.
As we look Anglo American has a long track record as a leader in ahead, it is clear that todays more resilient Anglo American sustainable, responsible mining, and a reputation for doing is well positioned to benefit as we hold our focus on the the right thing.
We will be introducing what we believe to be quality of our portfolio, improving individual asset quality, a progressive and industry-leading Sustainability Strategy, maintaining future growth optionality, and a continuous aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN, improvement approach to operational performance and setting out a series of stretch goals relating to our host our commercial positions.
communities, the natural environment, and the governance of our industry, together with a new collaborative approach THANK YOU to regional economic development.
Anglo Americans centenary milestone in 2017 is great Engagement faith groups testimony to generations of people associated with us.
As Innovation extends to all corners, considering minings role chief executive, I thank all our employees for their diligence, in meeting the needs of society.
Our work with community motivation, care for each other, and their loyalty.
I also thank faith groups as a leading participant in the Mining and Faith our diverse range of stakeholders for their support, and Reflections Initiative recognises that many relationships those people and organisations that, over a wide spectrum with communities and NGOs are guided by faith-based of fields, partner Anglo American in some form.
A very positive initial dialogue with the Vatican is being broadened into a more ecumenical approach I am also grateful for the guidance of the Board in a year encompassing the Church of England and the Methodist which saw a change in both chairman and finance director.
With greater mutual understanding, At the end of October, Sir John Parker stepped down as we are better placed as true partners in developing our chairman after more than eight years in the role.
Sir John businesses and communities towards a better future.
was at the helm through the most challenging period I have seen in my 40 years in the mining industry, and I would Marketing like to thank him personally for his wise counsel.
And my Equally important is how we think differently about thanks also to Ren Mdori, our finance director of 12 years maximising the value from our mineral resources and market we wish him the very best in his new ventures.
Today, we better understand and address our customers specific needs through direct long term Together with the management team, we are working relationships, while also leveraging our capabilities in the closely with Stuart Chambers, our new chairman, and the financial and physical markets for mutual benefit.
Our progress Board as we build upon the firm foundations we have to ensure that the prices we secure for our products reflect created to fulfil this great companys full potential.
their quality and security of supply is evident in the expansion of our underlying EBITDA margin over the last five years.
PEOPLE Ours is a people business whether they are our employees, our stakeholders in all their many forms, or our shareholders.
Our people are not assets: they are more than assets and Mark Cutifani represent the heart and soul of our business.
We have Chief Executive Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 09
