STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET OVERVIEW Senior designs, manufactures and markets hightechnology components and systems for the principal original equipment producers in the worldwide aerospace, defence, land vehicle and energy markets.
The chart below illustrates the growth in benefit from the Embraer E2-Jet, the American heavy-duty trucks is anticipated Industrial 13% of Group Seniors shipset values over the past 12 years Bombardier Global 7000 and the Mitsubishi toimprove in the medium to longer term as Senior designs and manufactures products and the estimated annual production volumes MRJ, with the first two due to enter service in demand for replacement capacity is driven forglobal industrial process control markets of the major platforms.
2018 and MRJ in 2020. byregulatory changes.
The off-highway including petrochemical, HVAC and power market continues to benefit from improved andenergy markets, to meet an increasingly Forecast annual growth in global passenger Military Aerospace 12% of Group levels of activity in end markets such as oil stringent regulatory environment.
In the AEROSPACE KEY MARKETS FLEXONICS KEY MARKETS airtraffic is a significant driver of demand for European and US defence budgets are growing andgas, mining and agriculture.
upstream oil and gas market we are continuing new commercial aircraft, and hence for many as a result of increased geopolitical tensions Large Commercial Aircraft 45% of Group Land Vehicles 15% of Group to see improved activity.
However, downstream of Seniors core aerospace products.
Boeing and Seniors revenue from the military and In the passenger car sector 5% of Group, Senior continues to benefit from strong The increasingly stringent global requirements oil and gas market remains subdued as and Airbus are predicting air traffic to grow defence sector isexpected to benefit from the Seniors revenue arises predominantly from demand in the large commercial aircraft for reduced carbon emissions influences the anticipated, with few major projects being inexcess of 4% per annum over the next F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and CH53-K, which is European markets.
This market sector is sectordue to healthier global air traffic growth.
demand for the majority of the Groups launched: however, repair and overhaul 20years.
scheduled to ramp up significantly over the forecast to remain stable in the medium term.
At current build rates, Boeing and Airbus order products in the land vehicles market which activities have been reasonable and we believe next five years.
Production ofthe Black Hawk books represent over eight years production.
arises in the form of reduction targets for Regional and Business Jets 7% of Group In the medium to longer term, as a result of recovery in this sector will lag the upstream helicopter is expected to decrease over the Senior maintains a healthy shipset content on emissions from cars, trucks and off-highway Senior has significantly higher shipset content growth in GDP and as emissions regulations recovery by at least a year.
short to medium term as theglobal helicopter all the key large commercial aircraft platforms vehicles and through increased fuel efficiency on new regional jet platforms such as the continue to tighten demand for the Groups market remains weak.
Over the longer term, projected increases and will continue to benefit from expected from their engines.
The chart below highlights Bombardier CSeries, Mitsubishi MRJ and products in the land vehicle sectors is inglobal energy usage, tightening emissions increases in build rates of all the key platforms.
the deployment of emissions standards in Embraer E2-Jet than legacy regional jets: anticipated to increase, particularly in control regulations and emerging changes in Senior has managed to secure significantly major geographies.
therefore, the Groups regional jet market geographies outside of North America and power generation will drive increased global higher content on the new engine versions 3%of Group revenue is expected to benefit Europe.
Senior is developing solutions for In the truck and off-highway sector 10% of demand for the Groups industrial products.
ofthe leading narrow-bodied aircraft than the inthe medium term.
thenext generation of more efficient internal Group, Seniors revenue arises predominantly current versions.
This allows the Group to combustion engines, as well as electrified from North America, where the heavy-duty In the regional and business jet market, the outgrow the market, as these new engine landvehicle applications.
truck and off-highway markets are seeing C-Series and Honda Jet continue to ramp up versions come into service and production some improved activity.
Production of North deliveries and the Group is also expected to ramps up.
1 SHIPSET VALUE PROGRESSION ESTIMATED ANNUAL PROD UCTION GLOBAL EMISSIONS STANDARDS LAND VEHICLE PRODUCTION OIL PRICE AND US RIG COUNT LARGE COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT FORECAST 1 800 737 120 North American Class 8 Trucks 29% REGION 2017 2018 2019 2020 1,000 787 350 Oil price 700 26% 1 100 A320 300 600 Light-Duty Engines Car & Truck US rig count A350 26% 250 900 80 500 CHINA China 4 China 5 China 6 200 400 60 150 800 300 EUROPE Euro 6 100 40 200 6% INDIA 11% BS IV 50 73% 700 100 20 Share of T1000 0 adjusted to 50% US Tier 3 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0 2017 2018 2019 2020 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 600 SOURCE: ACT Research Heavy Duty Engines On Highway SOURCE: Customers, Teal Group and internal estimates 1 SOURCE: Rig count data from Baker Hughes Estimates include 737 MAX and A320neo respectively 93% -2% CHINA China V China VI 500 EUROPE Euro VI 8% 400 WORLD ENERGY DEMAND INDIA BS IV BS V WORLD AIR TRAFFIC 20 300 US EPA2013 OECD China India Rest of Asia 18 18 Airbus GMF 2017: 6% Africa and Middle East Other ICAO total trafc 4.4% growth p. a.
16 16 Engines Off Road 200 14 x2 14 Air trafc is forecast to CHINA 12 Stage III 12 double in the next 15 years 10 100 10 EUROPE Stage IV Stage V 8 8 x2 6 INDIA BS III 6 0 4 737 MAX 777X 787 A320neo A330neo A350 x2 4 2 1 US Tier 4 Average based on programme share and estimated engine variant 2 0 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 0 Dec 06 Dec 08 Dec 10 Dec 12 Dec 14 Dec 16 1976 1981 1986 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2021 2026 2031 2036 SOURCE: BP Energy Outlook 2035 Dec 07 Dec 09 Dec 11 Dec 13 Dec 15 Dec 17 % CAGR SOURCE: ICAO, Airbus GMF 2017 12 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 13 $000s World annual trafc trillion RPKs Number of aircraft Thousands Billion tonnes of oil equivalent Index STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL HOW WE CREATE VALUE Seniors primary strategic objective is to create long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value.
This is achieved through a culture of empowerment of autonomous and collaborative operations working within an effective control framework.
The major elements of value creation for the Group can be classified as follows: OUR ASSETS OUR APPROACH Developing our portfolio of autonomous and collaborative operations.
CUSTOMER ALIGNMENT OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The Senior portfolio provides: Working with our customers to provide innovative marketBeing passionate about operational excellence, driving continuous leading solutions.
1 Effective customer alignment means: Effective operational excellence results in: The Leverage opportunity AUTONOMOUS AND COLLABORATIVE of customer to share relationships BUSINESS MODEL STRONG CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS ETHICS AND SAFETY best practices The Group seeks to deliver competitive products utilising Senior is committed to conducting its business with integrity, honesty itsengineering expertise to optimise customer value and and fairness and operating with the highest ethical standards in 2 An integrated Financial exceed expectations whilst continuing to meet performance everything it does.
Governance procedures are designed to allow each global footprint, strength supporting FOCUS ON GROWTH objectives.
This is achieved through advanced process operation to embrace and manage operational excellence effectively, and providing customer investment and engineering and excellent operational execution, leading to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, without imposing proximity and cost innovation for competitiveness PORTFOLIO tomarket differentiation and continued growth in organic an unnecessary administrative burden.
They also aim to ensure that customer benefit 3 revenue, operating margins and cash flow delivery.
employees act safely at all times, with integrity and in an ethical manner.
HIGH PERFORMANCE OPERATING SYSTEM 33 operations Complementary BEING ON THE RIGHT PLATFORMS CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT in 14 countries capabilities 4 covering five Investment is targeted in new product development, Driving value creation through the implementation of operational market technologies and geographic regions as these markets excellence initiatives based around Lean principles and sustained A culture of sectors COMPETITIVE COST COUNTRY STRATEGY collaborative have higher than average growth potential, which will superior performance in the eyes of its customers.
Success through autonomy further enhance organic growth opportunities.
Many of the delivering operational improvements as part of the annual planning 5 Groups products are developed to help customers achieve cycle, using Kaizen events and other Lean practices to reduce costs, their objectives for improved operating costs, particularly improve product flow and velocity and optimise use of resources.
CONSIDERED AND EFFECTIVE fuel efficiency in aircraft platforms and land vehicle engine CAPITAL DEPLOYMENT applications, and to meet increasingly stringent global REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Recruiting and developing our people, to deliver sustainable growth.
Our people make the difference.
They operate in a culture of: Reducing the Groups environmental impact helps to reduce cost and to 6 improve efficiencies and make us more agile.
The Groups main impacts EXPANDING CAPABILITIES on the environment are: energy consumption and associated CO TALENT DEVELOPMENT 2 The Groups customers increasingly operate on a global emissions, waste generation and recycling, and water consumption.
All Investing Integrity basis and it is important that Senior is able to support them of the Groups operations develop energy conservation projects, tailored in local and high across the world.
In industries where customers have to their main energy consumption, and regularly monitor performance communities ethical standards choices with whom they do business, Seniors on-time through energy usage.
Seniors Lean programme also continues to help delivery and quality record and its cost competitiveness reduce energy demand by improving the efficiency of how the Group arekey to the Group gaining market share.
manufactures and streamlines the process to eliminate waste.
Empowerment Maintaining READ MORE ON PAGES 1617 of local management, a safe and within a well-dened healthy control framework workplace PEOPLE Ongoing investment Developing OUR DIVERSIFIED in personal GEOGRAPHY CUSTOMER PRODUCT MARKET strong customer development at all relationships We sell in 14countries We sell to all major aerospace We offer 14 major categories Our products serve BUSINESS MODEL levels throughout and flexonics manufacturers of product lines 12 markets the business Our business model is diversified by geography, customer, Tell it as it is product and market, giving us a key strategic advantage.
philosophy 14 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The following six strategic priorities were identified as key elements of our business model, which will drive the creation of shareholder value.
They will receive specific attention and focus over the coming years.
ENHANCE SENIORS AUTONOMOUS FOCUS ON GROWTH INTRODUCE A HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPETITIVE COST CONSIDERED AND EFFECTIVE TALENT DEVELOPMENT 1 2 3 4 5 6 AND COLLABORATIVE BUSINESS OPERATING SYSTEM COUNTRY STRATEGY CAPITAL DEPLOYMENT MODEL Seniors business model is one of Seniors end markets grow naturally at Senior is implementing a high performance Enhance Seniors global footprint to Senior understands the importance of Senior has a skilled workforce and some empowering and holding accountable around 4% through the cycle.
We believe operating system of its own, drawing on ensureour businesses stay competitive considered and effective capital deployment highly experienced entrepreneurial business ourbusinesses, operating within a clearly itis possible to outgrow our end markets themany excellent practices from across atacapability and cost level, with key in the interest of maximising the creation of leaders.
We are bringing renewed focus to defined divisional structure, to develop and and we seek to do that both organically the Group.
The key elements of this investments in Thailand, Malaysia, China, shareholder value.
All significant investments further developing leadership talent and deliver business plans in line with overall andthrough acquisition by: systeminclude: India, Mexico and the Czech Republic to undertaken by Senior are assessed using a upgrading functional capability across the Group strategy.
Increasing collaboration help ensure we meet our customers cost rigorous investment appraisal process and Group.
We are ensuring robust succession Growing market share, particularly An operational toolkit incorporating best amongst businesses in the Group is a and price challenges whilst protecting aresupported by a business case.
The Group plans are in place across our businesses.
withkey customers: practice processes such as lean and priority to ensure economies ofscale margins.
We are actively moving products has a financial objective to maintain an overall Weare working with capable external Focusing on innovation: continuous improvement techniques: arerealised whilst maintaining and establishing increasingly sophisticated return on capital employed in excess of the partners to deliver tailored training and Geographical expansion: and supplier management: new product theautonomous business structure.
capabilities in these competitive cost Groups cost of capital and to target a pre-tax development programmes for Seniors Seeking out and exploiting adjacent introduction: 5 6S methodology: factory Business leaders throughout Senior are economies to free up capacity in our return in excess of 15%.
opportunities organically and visual management systems: risk and actively embracing collaboration activities European and North American factories, throughacquisition.
financial management: and with priorities set at Group level in which is needed to satisfy anticipated A strengthened business review consultation with the businesses.
processutilising a balanced scorecard incorporating KPIs with focus on performance, growth, operational excellence and talent development.
Multi-site collaboration efforts have led Customer Relationship Managers Launched the Senior Operating System Ramping up new Aerospace programmes Sold Aerospace BWT Ilkeston site: Delivered a more comprehensive to important new business awards: appointed for key customers: inAerospace Structures: in Thailand and Malaysia: Invested 54.8m in organic capital operational excellence leadership Customer Relationship Managers Continued to win more new business in Held targeted performance improvement Continued to win more new business expenditure to support growth development programme: appointed for key customers: China, India, Malaysia and Thailand: workshops focused on margin: and inChina, India, Malaysia and Thailand: programmes: Implemented phase 1 of Group-wide Launched Senior Health & Safety Opened a Thermoplastic Composites Delivered a more comprehensive Transferred Aerospace Fluid Systems Dividend increased by 5.8% to 6.95 pence Performance Development Review Essential Behavioural Standard across Development Centre in the UK: and operational excellence leadership work packages to Aerospace Mexico: and per share total paid and proposed : and process for senior managers: and the Group: Secured first development contracts development programme.
Expanded in the Czech Republic by Working capital reduced to 13.4% of Appointed VP Operational Excellence Brought together three Aerospace forelectric vehicle applications.
revenue at the end of the year.
tolead implementation of Senior businesses in Pacific Northwest under Operating System.
one leadership team: and Brought together Southern California Aerospace Structures businesses JetProducts and Ketema under one leadership team.
Continue to focus front end collaboration Commence build of a new high-tech Launch the Senior Operating System efforts on multi-site business facility in Crumlin South Wales, focused inAerospace Fluid Systems: and Successfully launch new Aerospace Continue to invest in organic capital Further roll out of Group-wide opportunities: on design, development, test and Undertake targeted performance programmes in Thailand and Malaysia: expenditure to support future growth: Performance Development Review Deliver supply chain savings from qualification of new Flexonics products: workshops in businesses with Expand footprint in Malaysia to support Continue to pay a progressive dividend: process: and Procurement Council collaboration: and and biggestimprovement opportunities.
new Aerospace programmes: Maintain the level of working capital as Improve gender diversity in succession Accelerate collaboration between Asian Establish Senior Aerospace Additive Ramp up cooler production in India: and apercentage of revenue: and plans for senior leadership team.
and North American businesses to Manufacturing Technology Centre.
Expand footprint of China JV to support Continue to review performance of achieve increased market share.
existing portfolio against returns on capitaltargets and take action as required.
16 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 17 OUR PLANS FOR 2018 WHAT WEVE DONE WHAT IT IS
