CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW that the growth of our sustainable living brands was outstripping A CHALLENGING BACKDROP TO THE YEAR other brands and accounted for 60% of Unilevers growth.
2017 was another challenging year for the world economy, and in The leadership role Unilever has played more widely in pioneering particular for the consumer goods industry.
Consumer confidence responsible business models was also further acknowledged last continued to be hit by a combination of stagnating wages, recessionary year.
Indeed, for the seventh consecutive year Unilever topped the pressures and widespread political and economic uncertainty.
While GlobeScan SustainAbility ranking of 1,000 sustainability experts around the economic system is working for some, the benefits are still not the world the longest-running and most extensive survey of its kind.
The widely felt, and inequality is rising in most countries.
That's not good study identified integrating sustainability into the heart of the business, for the consumer goods industry.
Climate change is also becoming an demonstrating executive leadership, strong performance in supply chain increasing risk factor for most sectors, making our own mitigating management, and commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals actions even more important.
SDGs, as among key reasons behind the Groups leadership, concluding At the same time, our industry experienced unprecedented levels of that Unilever continues to be seen as the global leader on sustainability.
disruption last year, driven by the accelerating pace of technology.
When We are also benefiting from the company-wide implementation of combined with significant changes in consumer behaviour, these events Connected for Growth.
By streamlining the Group and by empowering are causing manufacturers and retailers alike to rethink fundamentally our front-line operators, C4G is providing the combination of resilience how they reach, serve and ultimately delight consumers in markets that and agility that todays trading environment demands.
We are already are more dynamic and open to entry than ever before.
seeing the benefits, with employees reporting a significant improvement THE IMPORTANCE OF CONSISTENT PERFORMANCE in the speed of decision-making and a greater bias for action.
Delivering consistent, market-beating performance in such volatile and A key measure of C4Gs longer term success will be our ability to rollfast-changing markets is increasingly challenging.
Not many companies out bigger and more impactful innovations even quicker, both globally achieve it.
In fact, a McKinsey & Co study found that over a thirty-year and locally.
Again, there is evidence of improved performance.
The period only 40% of nonfinancial companies then in the S&P 500 survived.
number of local launches was substantially up in 2017.
Our key Its grow or go they concluded and 60% have gone Why its a world of emphasis, however, remains on our core, global brands and on grow or go.
McKinsey & Co. By contrast, those companies that can deliver developing strategic, global launches based on larger projects with consistent performance in a responsible way get rewarded.
We already see some great examples of this, Judged against these criteria, it is not difficult to see why Unilever finds including in 2017 with the launch of Magnum Pints, providing the itself one of the best performing companies in our sector, with a total ultimate ice-cream and chocolate experience in a tub: the roll-out of shareholder return over the last nine years of close to 300%.
In that time Baby Dove to a further 19 countries: the relaunch of the Hellmanns the Group has also delivered consistent top and bottom line progress.
brand with strengthened naturalness claims in 28 markets, as well as This goes to the heart of our responsible long-term compounding growth the roll-out of Hellmanns organic variants in both Europe and North model - based on continuously high levels of re-investment - which has America: and the continued roll-out of the incredibly successful served Unilever well for many years.
Indeed, it is worth noting that one Domestos toilet blocks, now in 33 countries, helping to drive doublepound invested in Unilever in the FTSE in 1986 would have generated digit growth for the brand.
It is a further measure of the strength of our a return four times higher than the market average.
brands that more of them appear in the annual Kantar Global Ranking of Most Chosen Consumer Brands than those of our competitors.
A GOOD YEAR In the spirit of the C4G changes, we also announced last year the 2017 saw a continuation of this trend.
Underlying sales excluding bringing together of our Foods and Refreshment categories into a spreads, which we have agreed to sell, grew 3.5% 3.1% including single division, based in Rotterdam.
The work for this was completed spreads, representing a good performance in largely subdued in 2017.
We believe the new Foods & Refreshment division can become markets.
Growth was broad-based across all our categories and of an even stronger global powerhouse, benefiting from the scale and good quality, supported by high levels of brand and marketing investment.
efficiencies that the integration will bring.
There was excellent progress on absolute profitability and on We have also moved decisively in recent years to reshape our portfolio in underlying operating margin by 110 basis points helped by strong anticipation of changing consumer trends and to help maximise new and delivery against the key savings and efficiency programmes behind burgeoning growth opportunities.
Over the last three years, we have made our Connected for Growth C4G change programme, which started or announced 22 acquisitions.
Twelve of these came last year alone as in 2016.
Two-thirds of the more than 2 billion of savings generated we accelerated our portfolio transformation further, making 2017 one of in 2017 were re-invested behind growing our brands in line with our the most active acquisition periods in the companys history.
The increase in underlying operating profit also contributed to a record free cash flow delivery at 5.4 billion, an These new businesses strengthen our portfolio in a variety of ways.
give us access to fast-growing segments of markets in which we are already active but currently under-represented, such as Carver Korea, By any measure, this represents a good, all-round performance, as well which will enable us to leverage the growing demand for Korean skin care as further evidence of the transformation of Unilever to a sustainable products.
Others will enable us to expand in complementary, adjacent growth company.
In this environment, we continue to believe that categories, such as colour cosmetics Hourglass and air purification Blue a long-term focus on multiple stakeholders, behind a purpose-driven Air.
Some give us greater regional scale in existing categories, as is the case sustainable business model, is the best guarantee of future success.
with the acquisition of the Quala home and personal care business in Latin America and EAC in Myanmar.
And others bring skills and capabilities in new, LOOKING AHEAD WITH CONFIDENCE rapidly emerging segments, including subscription and direct-to-consumer Although the global economy is showing signs of improvement, we models e. g. Dollar Shave Club and our Prestige beauty businesses.
can expect 2018 to be another challenging year, with further rapid and wide-ranging disruption to our markets.
In addressing these Having announced earlier in the year the intention to divest our challenges, we are benefiting, I believe, from having started early spreads business, 2017 also ended with the announcement of the sale in anticipating and responding to many of the trends and of the business to KKR for a little over 6.8 billion.
developments we currently see re-shaping our markets.
This combination of an increasingly relevant Unilever Sustainable By anticipating, for example, the desire of consumers for more natural Living Plan, a C4G change model that supports the kind of speed, and authentic products and for brands that serve a deeper purpose agility and organisational resilience needed to compete in todays the relevance and impact of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, markets: and a sharper portfolio better weighted to higher growth introduced in 2010, has increased steadily.
Last year we reported categories and geographies, gives us the confidence that we can go on delivering consistent, market-beating performance.
4 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We are also particularly well placed, I believe, to capture the markets in which we recruit - a more than 25% increase on the year opportunities of the digital revolution - and the unprecedented before and a remarkable testament to the attractiveness of our explosion in data which are transforming our markets and our employer proposition and our purpose-driven model.
Our digital marketing At the heart of our people agenda is a focus on creating a balanced capabilities, for example, have frequently been recognised as among and inclusive workforce.
This focus not only underpins Unilevers the best in the industry and the online sales of our brands increased longstanding values especially tolerance and respect - but by a further 80% last year, making it a 1.7 billion business for us.
also guarantees the diversity of thought and ideas on which our However, this area is moving fast.
The amount of data in the world is business depends.
We made further strides again in 2017, not more than doubling every two years.
Our ambition is to build a billion least in the area of gender balance, with the proportion of female one-to-one consumer relationships, leveraging our in-house People managers rising to 47% of our total management population.
Data Centres and the opportunity they give us to connect with consumers in a meaningful way through real-time analytics.
We DELIVERING FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS need to continue driving this critical agenda, which is why we are In conclusion, let me thank all of the wonderful people of Unilever investing heavily in digital, experimenting with a range of new, directand the many more we partner with around the world who to-consumer business models and embarking on an enterprise wide worked so hard to make 2017 such a strong and positive year for digital transformation programme.
It was a year in which our long-term compounding growth model was questioned by some, but was ultimately shown THE POWER OF OUR PEOPLE to be a model that unequivocally delivers in the interests of Ultimately, Unilevers success will come down to its ability to Unilever and its multiple stakeholders, including shareholders.
attract and retain the most talented individuals and to motivate and inspire them with a mission and a purpose that speaks to the long-term aims and values of the company.
Here, again, we start from a strong base.
A remarkable 90% of PAUL POLMAN employees express pride in working for Unilever, well above the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER industry average.
And last year the number of countries in which Unilever was named most desired employer rose to 44 of the 52 UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE ULE OVERVIEW FOR PAUL POLMAN AND GRAEME PITKETHLY SEE PAGE 3 DAVID BLANCHARD MARC ENGEL HANNEKE FABER ALAN JOPE Chief R&D Officer Chief Supply Chain Officer President, Europe President, Personal Care Nationality British Age 53, Male Nationality Dutch Age 51, Male Nationality Dutch Age 48, Female Nationality British Age 53, Male Appointed to ULE January 2013 Appointed to ULE January 2016 Appointed to ULE January 2018 Appointed to ULE November 2011 Joined Unilever 1986 Joined Unilever 1990 Joined Unilever 2018 Joined Unilever 1985 Previous Unilever posts include: Previous Unilever posts include: Previous posts include: Previous Unilever posts include: Unilever Research & Development SVP : Unilever East Africa and Emerging Markets Ahold Delhaize CEIO & EC, Ahold CCO, Unilever Russia, Africa and Middle East Unilever Canada Inc. Chairman : Foods EVP : Chief Procurement Officer: Supply Chain, P&G VP & GM.
President : Unilever North Asia President : America SVP Marketing Operations : Spreads, Dressings and Olive Oil Europe VP : Current external appointments: SCC and Dressings Global Category Leader : Global Dressings VP R&D : Margarine and Ice Cream Brazil Managing Director : Bayer AG Supervisory Board member, Home and Personal Care North America Spreads Director of Product Development.
Ice Cream Brazil VP : Corporate Strategy Leading Executives Advancing Diversity LEAD President.
Current external appointments: Group: Birds Eye Walls, Unilever UK advisory board member.
Ingleby Farms and Forests NED.
Current external appointments: PostNL Supervisory Board member.
KEES KRUYTHOFF LEENA NAIR NITIN PARANJPE RITVA SOTAMAA President, Home Care Chief Human Resources Officer President, Foods and Refreshment Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary Nationality Dutch Age 49, Male Nationality Indian Age 48, Female Nationality Indian Age 54, Male Nationality Finnish Age 54, Female Appointed to ULE November 2011 Appointed to ULE March 2016 Appointed to ULE October 2013 Appointed to ULE February 2013 Joined Unilever 1993 Joined Unilever 1992 Joined Unilever 1987 Joined Unilever 2013 Previous Unilever posts include: President, Previous Unilever posts include: HR Previous Unilever posts include: Previous posts include: Siemens AG North America and Global Head of Customer Leadership and Organisational Development President Home Care: EVP South Asia and Siemens Healthcare GC : General Electric Development: Brazil EVP : Unilever Foods and Global Head of Diversity SVP : Hindustan Hindustan Unilever Limited CEO : Home Company GE Healthcare various positions South Africa CEO : Unilever Bestfoods Unilever Limited Executive Director HR : and Personal Care, India Executive Director : including GE Healthcare Systems GC : Asia SVP and Board member.
Home Care VP : Fabric Wash Category Head : Instrumentarium Corporation GC.
Current external appointments: Laundry and Household Cleaning, Asia Current external appointments: Pepsi Lipton JV Board member : Regional Brand Director.
AMANDA SOURRY KEITH WEED President, North America & Global Chief Marketing & Head of Customer Development Communications Officer Nationality British Age 54, Female Nationality British Age 56, Male Appointed to ULE October 2015 Appointed to ULE April 2010 Joined Unilever 1985 Joined Unilever 1983 Previous Unilever posts include: Previous Unilever posts include: President Foods: Global Hair EVP : Unilever UK Global Home Care and Hygiene EVP : Lever and Ireland EVP and Chairman : Global Spreads Faberg Chairman : Hair and Oral Care SVP.
and Dressings EVP : Unilever US Foods SVP.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Business in the Community International PVH Corp. NED.
Board Chairman : Business in the Community Board member.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 5
