Chief Executive Officers review Over the past 12 months we made good progress in a number Over the past 12 months we of areas.
Our Continence & Critical Care and Infusion Devices franchises delivered strong performances, and in Ostomy Care we made good progress in a number saw good momentum in the first half in the US, Latin America, Japan and China.
We also expanded our product portfolio with of areas but also encountered the launch of 16 new products and line extensions.
However, we did encounter some significant challenges as well, which resulted in a disappointing performance overall in 2017.
Performance was affected by supply constraints in both AWC and Ostomy Care and a lower than anticipated revenue contribution from new products.
This reduced our full year organic revenue growth.
Following the relocation of production lines from our US manufacturing plant to Haina in the Dominican Republic, we experienced significant delays with the ramp-up of production volumes on the final Convex and Moldable Ostomy lines.
We encountered unexpected mechanical failures, and delays with optimising operation of the lines in Haina, the impact of which took effect at the end of the third quarter.
We also experienced delays in the ramp-up of production and in obtaining regulatory certification on AWC lines transferred.
These delays meant we used up our reserves of safety stock and backorders quickly developed.
We also lost orders, leading to an immediate impact on revenue growth, which we reported in our third quarter update in October.
Regulatory certification for AWC production lines was received late in the third quarter, and backorders in AWC have returned to a normal level.
Lines manufacturing Convex products have now returned to normal production levels and backorders have been addressed.
Paul Moraviec Chief Executive Officer a 1 Frank Schulkes 7 Tim Moran 1 2 3 Chief Financial Officer President, Americas b 2 Peter Byloos 8 George Poole Franchise President President, APAC Advanced Wound Care f 9 Donal Balfe c 3 Erik Zimmer Executive Vice President, 4 5 6 Vice President & General Manager Global Operations Ostomy Care g 10 Sean McGrath d 4 Frank Gehres Executive Vice President, Franchise President Global Human Resources Continence & Critical Care 11 Robert Steele 5 John Lindskog Executive Vice President, 7 8 9 Franchise President Quality, Regulatory & Clinical Affairs Infusion Devices 12 Adam Deutsch e 6 Kjersti Grimsrud Executive Vice President, President, EMEA General Counsel and Corporate Development 10 11 12 a.
Joined Executive Committee on 1 November 2017. b.
Joined ConvaTec and Executive Committee on 1 January 2018. c. Joined Executive Committee on 1 January 2018. d. Previously Interim President of EMEA.
e. Joined ConvaTec and Executive Committee on 1 January 2018. f. Joined ConvaTec and Executive Committee on 1 October 2017. g. Joined ConvaTec and Executive Committee on 1 January 2018.
ConvaTec Group Plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 For Moldable, we implemented a mitigation plan that has However, in the third quarter, following the transfer of the final increased production volumes to a level which now meets both manufacturing lines from Greensboro in the US to our Haina current market demand and is able to address the backorders facility, we experienced the impact of delays in making those that have built up, although we expect fulfilment of all lines fully operational.
As a result, production of Convex and backorders will take until the end of the first half of 2018.
Moldable products ran below full capacity.
This led to supply We have implemented an external review of manufacturing and constraints, and once safety stock had been depleted, a build-up supply chain and are strengthening our operating mechanisms of backorders and lost orders.
Whilst the backorder situation and project management.
In 2018 we will continue with the for Convex products was resolved in the fourth quarter, stabilisation of our manufacturing and supply chain.
optimisation of the Moldable production line continued and, in line with our recovery plan, by December was producing at Whilst we did see a benefit to adjusted gross margin from our a level to meet both current market demand and to begin to Margin Improvement Programme MIP, headwinds and other address backorders.
We anticipate a knock-on negative effect cost increases more than offset these, resulting in a negative from lost orders as a result of these supply constraints through impact on adjusted gross margin compared to our initial the first half of 2018. expectation of a further improvement in 2017.
Organic revenue growth for the full year was 0.8%, or 3.0% Results at CER, with supply constraints reducing growth by Organic revenue grew by 2.3%, slightly ahead of our revised c. 2 percentage points.
Renewal of Group Purchasing guidance of 1%2%.
Organisation GPO contracts in the US reduced growth by a further c. 0.5 percentage points over the year as a whole.
Advanced Wound Care Our AWC franchise delivered organic revenue growth of 2.6% Reported revenue of $528.9 million grew 3.3% compared to in 2017.
We continued to see strong demand for our AQUACEL 2016, and included a $11.3 million contribution from EuroTec, product lines, with foam, silver and surgical cover dressing the which we acquired at the beginning of the year.
main drivers of growth, although we did underperform in the US in the post-acute channel.
We have already taken action to Continence & Critical Care improve performance in 2018, and will make investments in this We made good progress in our CCC franchise.
Organic revenue area to scale our presence, drive account conversion and expand growth of 1.7% or 7.0% at CER, reflected good growth in our our foam portfolio.
During 2017 we continued the rollout of our Home Distribution Group HDG business and our GentleCath Avelle Negative Pressure Wound Therapy NPWT system, portfolio, offset by planned product rationalisation as part of which is now available in 20 markets around the world.
Whilst our MIP which reduced revenue growth by $13 million revenues from Avelle did not ramp up as quickly as we initially 3.5 percentage points.
anticipated in 2017, we have learnt from our first entry into this market.
The value proposition has been well received, and going HDG is a new business unit for catheter and incontinenceforwards we will modify our commercial focus and expect that related products, created following the acquisition of Woodbury Avelle revenues will continue to grow in 2018.
Holdings Woodbury and encapsulating the US distribution companies of 180 Medical, Symbius Medical, South Shore Following the relocation of surgical cover dressing and Medical Supply, Wilmington Medical Supply and Woodbury DuoDerm production lines from the US to Haina, the delays in Health Products.
certification by our European Notified Body and longer than anticipated time to ramp-up to full production volumes led to During the year we launched GentleCath Glide in the US and a build-up of backorders and consequent loss of some orders.
We expect to launch our next generation Production and certification issues were resolved in the third catheter product in the second half of 2018 targeted at the quarter, and while backorders have returned to normal levels, European catheter market, which will drive growth over the we continued to see a negative impact from the timing of order medium term to long term.
recovery in the fourth quarter.
On a reported basis revenue increased 7.4% to $382.9 million, The impact of the supply constraints reduced organic revenue and included a $18.9 million contribution from Woodbury.
growth by c. 1 percentage point.
In addition, changes to reimbursement rates in France at the start of 2017 reduced Infusion Devices organic revenue growth by c. 1 percentage point.
In our Infusion Devices franchise, we launched our new infusion set, neria guard, for non-insulin therapies in June, and for 1 Reported revenue of $577.8 million in 2017 grew 3.3% diabetes use, MiniMed Mio Advance, with our partner compared to 2016.
This infusion set is the first of its kind to help eliminate the risk of needle-stick injuries with its Ostomy Care fully automated insertion function and has applications beyond The execution of our strategy to return the Ostomy Care insulin therapy.
franchise to consistent growth continued to gain momentum and the franchise delivered an improved performance in the Infusion Devices revenue grew by 5.2% on an organic basis in first half of 2017.
During that period we saw good momentum 2017, with our partners seeing continued growth for diabetes in the US, Latin America, Japan and China, supported by our insulin pumps and new product launches.
me direct-to-consumer programme in the US, and the global launches of the Esteem Flex Convex one-piece system and On a reported basis revenue of $275.0 million grew 5.7% year Natura Convex Accordion Flange.
weakness in EMEA, especially in the UK.
MiniMed Mio Advance trademarks of Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. ConvaTec Group Plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executive Officers review continued MIP and adjusted gross margin A number of actions are in progress following our experience We also progressed our MIP in 2017.
We closed our Greensboro in 2017, focused on improving project management, operating plant in the US and transferred production of 20 Ostomy Care reviews and cross functional collaboration.
Leadership has also and ten AWC production lines to Haina completing our planned been strengthened with the appointment of Donal Balfe as our reduction from 11 manufacturing plants to eight nine including new Executive Vice President, Global Operations.
Our adjusted our EuroTec plant, which was outside the scope of our MIP.
gross margin ambition remains, compared to best in class peers, At 31 December 2017 approximately 84% of our manufacturing and we continue to believe that material productivity gains are workforce were in lower cost countries and the number of achievable over the medium to long term.
As detailed in the manufacturing employees trained in LEAN manufacturing Chief Financial Officers review on page 48, in the future in line principles increased by 20% to cover c. 90% of our with most peers we will provide guidance on adjusted EBIT manufacturing workforce.
margin, instead of adjusted gross margin, whilst continuing to report on our progress in delivering productivity improvements.
We continued with product rationalisation in our Continence & Critical Care franchise to eliminate low margin products from Further information about our operational performance is our catalogue.
As noted, this had a c. $13 million impact on included on pages 38 to 47. revenue in the year but was margin neutral.
We also made further progress implementing our Advanced Pouching System People APS lines in both Haina and Slovakia in Ostomy Care.
During the year there were several changes to the organisational structure and members of the Executive Whilst these initiatives, along with sourcing and supply chain Committee.
As of 1 January 2018, ConvaTecs four franchises initiatives, delivered a cost out benefit to adjusted gross margin, are led by franchise Presidents who report directly to me and this was more than offset by headwinds and cost increases who are members of the Executive Committee.
including additional expediting costs, such as increased air freight, higher than anticipated depreciation and wage inflation These changes will drive improved focus and performance which were not fully taken into account in the original MIP and across the Group and leverage our strong pipeline of new manufacturing inefficiencies.
products, as well as our leading market positions.
Including pricing and product mix effects, overall there was a Kjersti Grimsrud, President of the EMEA Region, and Sean negative impact on adjusted gross margin of 70 basis points.
McGrath, Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources, With favourable foreign exchange of 80 bps, adjusted gross have also joined the Group and the Executive Committee with margin increased 10 bps year on year to 61.0%.
We anticipate that we will see additional productivity benefits Following the sudden death of Mike Sgrignari, Executive Vice from the lower cost of labour in Haina, and our LEAN projects President, Global Operations, in March 2017, Donal Balfe was in 2018, although some of the headwinds will remain, such as appointed as his successor and member of the Executive depreciation and wage inflation, restricting adjusted gross Committee on 1 October 2017. margin growth in 2018.
We will continue to drive existing initiatives and launch new projects in five areas where we see Frank Schulkes joined the Group as CFO designate in August clear opportunities sourcing excellence, improved cost and became CFO and Board Director on 1 November 2017 efficiency in supply chain and distribution, driving our LEAN following Nigel Clerkins departure.
productivity programmes, continued footprint optimisation and reducing complexity.
We are already building detailed plans for All members of the Executive Committee are shown on page 6 new projects and validating the opportunities, and expect and their biographical information is available on our website modest productivity gains in 2018 as the majority of these www.
programmes will deliver in 2019 and beyond.
We believe that the overall scale of the cost out opportunities, in dollar terms, During the year four new Non-Executive Directors were is similar to our previous target over the medium to long term.
appointed to the Board: Kasim Kutay, Dr Regina Benjamin, Dr Ros Rivaz and Margaret Ewing.
Dr Raj Shah, Thomas Vetander and Kunal Pandit all left the Board during the year following the reduction in shareholding of both Nordic Capital and Avista Capital Partners and I would like to thank them for their contributions to the business.
We have a values-led, performance-driven culture which builds on our core Purpose, to improve the lives of the people we touch.
Despite recent challenges, much has been achieved in recent years and everyone across ConvaTec has played their part.
On behalf of myself, the Board and our Executive Business insight Committee, I would like to thank all our employees for the great Our Executive Committee is responsible for our day-to-day operations and, work they do every day.
in particular, executing and delivering our strategy, developing our business to capitalise on market trends, monitoring performance and managing risk.
Our market environment Page 10 Our business model Page 14 Our strategy Page 22 KPIs Page 28 Principal risks and uncertainties Page 30 ConvaTec Group Plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Corporate responsibility Outlook We have made good progress in 2017 in implementing our The fundamentals of our business remain strong.
We expect CR programme, which has been designed to support the to return to market levels of growth in the medium term and achievement of our Purpose, and to demonstrate that we live our we continue to see further structural margin expansion Values.
We recognise that there is more work to do but we have opportunities over the medium to long term, although progress taken some significant steps forward, not least the publication of will be delayed as we address the factors that negatively our first standalone CR report that sets out detailed information impacted on our 2017 performance.
We are committed to on our CR strategy, governance, achievements and challenges, delivering value to our shareholders whilst improving the lives together with performance information.
of people across the world who live with chronic conditions.
Paul Moraviec Chief Executive Officer 14 February 2018 ConvaTec Group Plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
