10 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Chief Executives review Overview We have delivered strong financial performance in 2017 as we continued to deliver on our customer focused strategy of growth, quality and returns.
As a result of continuing operational leverage and our focus on maintaining excellent asset quality we met or exceeded all of our financial targets for the year.
Underlying profit before tax increased to 273.3 million and return on tangible equity improved to 14.0 per cent.
On an underlying basis, total income increased by 13.5 per cent while cost growth was limited to 3.7 per cent.
As a result, our cost:income ratio improved to 52.3 per cent, from 57.2 per cent in 2016, and we exited 2017 with a ratio of 49.4 per cent in the fourth quarter.
Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chief Executive Statutory profit after tax increased by 37.1 per cent to 192.1 million, generating 182 basis points of Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital after distributions to Additional Tier 1 We have delivered strong financial capital holders.
This strong capital generation supported the ongoing growth of our lending portfolios together with performance in 2017 and made ongoing investment in both our core business and the build of considerable progress against our our digital bank.
We met or As a consequence, our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was 13.8 exceeded all of our financial targets for per cent at the end of 2017, while our total capital ratio was 18.1 per cent and our leverage ratio was 3.9 per cent.
The cost the year and we are confident about the of risk remained at 13 basis points, demonstrating continued long term prospects for the company.
high asset quality as well as a benign economic environment.
As a result of our performance in 2017 the Board has The strength of the business, our recommended a final dividend of 4.1 pence per ordinary customer focused strategy, and our share, bringing the total dividend per share for the year to 6.0 pence.
This represents an increase of 17.6 per cent new strategic initiatives, including SME compared to 2016. and digital, position us well to continue Over the course of the year, we announced new strategic growing profitably while serving and developments which will enable us to continue serving and growing our customer base, while meeting the challenges of growing our customer base with good regulatory change and an increasingly competitive market value, straightforward products and environment in the key markets in which we operate.
The strength of the business combined with these new strategic initiatives position us well to continue growing profitably and we are confident about the long term prospects for the business.
Customers and distribution We provide our customers with good value products, supported by outstanding service with the aim of driving long lasting relationships and deeper product engagement.
By ensuring that customers are at the heart of our strategy, the proportion of new product sales to existing customers increased to 12.2 per cent, compared to 10.7 per cent in 2016.
We also further improved customer advocacy across all areas of the business, with our overall Net Promoter Score NPS increasing to 40, up from 29 at 2016.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 11 I Our customers continue to choose our digital channels.
In our credit card business our focus has always been on Our website remains the most popular channel, with over delivering strong and sustainable risk-adjusted returns 28 million website visits, up from 22 million in 2016.
78 per through a first-rate card proposition for customers in the cent of sales were delivered digitally during the year and prime segment of the market.
We now have 1.2 million the use of mobile devices to access products and services customers and I am pleased to report that we reached our increased to 52 per cent of all our digital interactions, up from target of 3.0 billion high-quality credit card balances by the 50 per cent in 2016. end of 2017.
As a result of our stringent underwriting criteria we recruited 98 per cent of new balance transfer customers Our Lounges complement our Store network and continue from the highest quality customer segment.
Customer to be a standout success.
They deliver excellent customer engagement increased as we improved our online service for satisfaction with an NPS score of 87 matching best in class mobile usage and Virgin Money Back, our customer cashback peers in the retail sector.
As a result, we will be opening a new platform, supported an 8 per cent increase in average retail Lounge in Cardiff in 2018.
Our Store network continues to play spend per active account.
an important role for customers with a 25 per cent increase in new accounts opened in-Store year-on-year.
Our straightforward and transparent investment funds continue to support growing funds under management of As a result of improving the Virgin Money Giving VMG 3.7 billion.
New money inflows increased by 27 per cent customer journey we now have 1.4 million registered users year-on-year and, supported by the increased ISA savings of our not-for-profit online donation service.
95 million was allowance to 20,000, transfers of ISA balances into stocks donated to charities from 2.2 million individual donations in and shares ISAs were strong during the year.
We will aim to build deeper relationships with our VMG customer base by engaging them beyond charitable donations Our new life insurance proposition performed well in its first and exploring ways to meet more of their financial needs.
year since launch with sales, policies in force and income all exceeding previous life insurance partnerships.
The Business performance contribution from travel insurance and currency services We offer good value, straightforward and transparent was flat year-on-year as we focused on higher margin travel products and our multi-channel distribution model supports insurance business at lower volumes.
cost effective growth in our deposit business.
We continue to offer our savings customers both good value and sustainable Regulatory developments savings rates in the context of the market.
Our approach From 1 January 2019 UK banks will be required to establish delivered further improvements to our average cost of retail ring-fenced operations separating retail from wholesale funds and supported strong retention levels.
All of Virgin Moneys activities will be within the deposit balances by 9.6 per cent year-on-year, while reducing ring-fence and we are on track to meet the relevant our cost of funds to 59 basis points from 80 basis points in requirements.
As the high street banks may seek to deploy 2016.
In a competitive overall market for retail deposits, excess ring-fenced deposits into the market, this could we were delighted that customers continue to recognise the lead to heightened competition.
We remain well-placed to value of our proposition with 89 per cent retention of fixed continue competing for mortgage market share despite this rate maturities.
Our mortgage business remains high quality and performance The second Payment Services Directive PSD2, which took continues to benefit from strong retention of maturing effect from 13 January 2018, together with Open Banking balances and an award-winning intermediary proposition.
allows customers to choose to share data from their banking Improvements in our intermediary proposition drove a products with third parties.
This will increase competition further increase in our intermediary NPS to 61 from 55 in money transmission by allowing new entrants, including in 2016 and supported mortgage balance growth of 13 per new financial technology companies, to compete with the cent to 33.7 billion in 2017.
During the year we extended our established clearing banks.
Although the impact is likely to mortgage proposition to help more people onto the housing be felt most strongly and immediately in the personal current ladder and launched custom build and shared ownership account PCA market, in which we are not currently a material products.
Overall we achieved a market share of gross participant, in the long-term we believe Open Banking and lending of 3.3 per cent despite lowering volumes towards PSD2 represent an opportunity for us to attract customers the end of the year to manage margins and protect returns from the high street banks.
in an increasingly competitive market.
Further progress in our direct channel saw the number of mortgage applications increase by 12 per cent from 2016 with the value of direct mortgages exceeding 1 billion for the first time.
12 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Refreshed strategy Outlook At IPO we set out a number of ambitious targets to maintain Our central planning scenario for 2018 assumes a a high quality balance sheet while growing income and driving continuation of relatively benign economic conditions, shareholder returns.
We have successfully delivered on those modest economic growth and heightened competition as the initial targets, and we are confident about the next phase in market readjusts to a rising interest rate environment and Virgin Moneys strategy.
The macro and political environment, including the impact of the UK leaving the European To ensure that we continue to meet the changing needs of Union, remains uncertain which adds a degree of caution our customers and navigate the wider changes in the market, to our outlook.
we are investing in our digital future and have updated our customer-focused strategy of growth, quality and returns The Bank of England increased interest rates for the first time to provide a strong platform for us to continue to grow in a decade in November 2017 and has indicated that the pace responsibly and profitably in the years ahead.
of interest rate increases is expected to be gradual.
As part of this strategy, we are developing a data-driven, Our natural long term share of the UK mortgage market customer-centric digital bank which will allow us to take remains at 3 to 3.5 per cent.
In 2018 we expect to grow our advantage of the significant technological and regulatory mortgage and cards lending at a single digit percentage rate changes shaping UK retail banking, broaden our customer with banking NIM towards the lower end of a 165 to 170 basis appeal and provide access to a wider pool of UK retail points range.
Cost discipline will continue as we invest in our banking revenues.
strategic developments and we expect the 2018 cost:income ratio to be no higher than 50 per cent.
The new strategy will also diversify our funding through both Small and Medium Enterprises SMEs deposits and increased Our lending discipline will support asset quality and, including reach into the current accounts and savings markets.
We the impact of IFRS 9, we expect our cost of risk to be no higher launched an SME deposit product in January 2018 and plan to than 20 basis points and to maintain a CET1 ratio around launch a Business Current Account BCA by the end of 2018.
The Virgin Money digital bank will be underpinned by next We expect to maintain a solid double-digit return on tangible generation technology and architecture, offering customers equity in 2018. a Universal Account that can be personalised to create a We will continue to make progress with our SME roll-out and unique proposition tailored to individual needs.
In addition to the development of our digital bank over the course of 2018. our current presence in the mortgage, credit card and retail Over time, these initiatives will significantly increase the deposit markets, the digital bank will allow us to expand into breadth of our proposition, drive new sources of income and the current account and linked primary savings markets.
A broader proposition, lower cost to As such, we will provide an attractive proposition for serve and new sources of funding will drive enhanced returns customers that will enable us to compete against the and support sustainable value creation for shareholders over incumbent banks for lower cost current account balances.
The operating cost per customer of the digital bank will also be lower than in our core bank, improving our costefficiency once operating at scale.
Overall, we expect that our strategy will not only result in enhanced returns for shareholders in the longer term, but also enable us to continue delivering innovative products and outstanding service to our customers.
Colleagues Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Our goal is to nurture a high performing, diverse and Chief Executive committed workforce.
We aim to ensure that all colleagues 26 February 2018 can reach their full potential, feel valued and are empowered to thrive in a truly inclusive business.
To achieve this we have extended our use of technology to support flexible working and invested in the development of our people managers to make sure they both value and support a diverse workforce.
Our latest colleague survey results showed that we achieved a strong staff engagement score of 76 per cent, which compares well against industry standards.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 13 I Lounge Hosts, Virgin Money Lounge, Manchester.
