Group Chief Executives STRATEGIC REPORT review Group Chief Executives review A year of progress on a path that is now clear In 2015, we set out a strategy designed to we recently re-set expectations for every Securing our foundations address our performance issues and employee of the Group, based on three new Our foundations have been secured.
Our reposition our business for success.
We valued behaviours: Do the right thing, Never capital and liquidity positions are strong needed to secure our foundations, become settle, and Better together.
Taken together and our risk appetite is properly calibrated, lean and focused, and continually invest and these behaviours will help us to continuously with much greater front-line ownership.
Thanks to the outstanding efforts challenge the way we do things, make better Loan impairments are at less than half the of our 86,000 colleagues around the world, decisions, and hold each other accountable levels of recent years and we have made I am proud to say we are succeeding.
They will be ingrained into every substantial progress on the items we set out Financial performance in 2017 has been aspect of our business as we seek to put the for restructuring.
Our enhanced resilience steady rather than spectacular but has client experience at the centre of every plan, has been con rmed by our performance in signi cantly improved.
The trebling of every process, and every product offering.
the most recent Bank of England stress tests, underlying pro ts, a strong capital position They will also inform our hiring policies and which we passed without caveat.
Despite and emerging regulatory clarity allows us how we measure individual performance.
this progress, we are not complacent and to resume paying dividends.
We are building a truly client-centric remain focused on further enhancing the risk organisation with no tolerance for Of course, we have a long way to go.
We are management framework and capabilities complacency or mediocrity.
working hard to establish income growth of the Group, particularly in areas such as momentum across all our businesses, and cyber security.
Investing and innovating our return on equity continues to fall short of our cost of capital.
At the time of writing we We have increased the rate of investment Getting lean and focused are just under halfway to our initial milestone in our business by over 50 per cent since We are ahead of our plans to remove of 8 per cent underlying return on equity.
2015, spending close to $1.5 billion in 2017 inef cient cost from the business.
This Our key investment areas are growing well to improve our controls and bolster our has enabled us to increase investment and we are encouraged by our start to 2018. franchise capabilities.
We have focused on signi cantly while remaining on track to But we are well aware that this franchise the areas we set out in 2015: the opening of hold overall expenses at over the initial is capable of much more.
I would like to China, the digitisation of Retail Banking, the three years of our plan to the end of 2018. update you on the work we have done so far, wealth management needs of the growing and set out how we intend to build upon our af uent populations across our markets, and We are also working to instil a culture of successes to capture our full potential.
the ongoing development of countries in excellence across our organisation.
We are beginning to see the pay-back Vials noted in his Chairmans statement, in terms of client satisfaction and strong income momentum in these areas, which together with our highly relevant network offering and strong brand are the foundations for our future.
We were convinced these were the areas of our competitive advantage in 2015 and we believe it even more so today.
Technology is already changing the financial services landscape, re ecting evolving client expectations.
While it threatens the status quo in some respects it will also be a source of relative advantage for us.
Our presence in more than 60 markets gives us an unparalleled opportunity to test and re ne new concepts in single locations before rolling them out across many.
We are doing this in Cte dIvoire currently, trialling a purely digital retail banking offering.
And as one of the worlds leading trade banks we are ideally placed to drive a better client experience and higher returns for our shareholders by utilising new technologies.
For example, we are using blockchain technology to streamline cross-border payments as part of the first live, real-time payments corridor between Singapore and India that we initiated in 2017.
We will expand this capability to five more Bill Winters pairs of countries in 2018.
Group Chief Executive Standard Chartered 06 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information New valued behaviours The ongoing transformation of our Business performance Commercial Banking business is delivering Our Corporate & Institutional Banking results.
Enhanced frontline management and business has been re-positioned around risk monitoring has translated into signi cantly 1.
Do the right thing our core strengths as a global network bank.
It has returned to This focus enabled us to on-board over 90 pro tability and is now far better integrated mainly OECD-based multinational companies 2.
Never settle with the other client segments, which will in 2017.
They were attracted by our strength help it to generate higher quality and more in the emerging markets where they are sustainable income.
Early incremental income gains from this cohort are encouraging.
In Private Banking, we have continued to make signi cant investments in people and Simon Cooper, the CEO of this business, technology.
We are encouraged by the explained at an investor seminar in November increase in net new money driven in part by how over the coming years we will grow the higher productivity from our new relationship top line further, while improving our ef ciency managers, and in 2018 the business will through cost management, process target further improvements in both respects.
He also outlined initiatives to allocate capital Group outlook more effectively within the business and Invested in 2017 further improve its funding mix.
At the same We believe these business initiatives will help seminar the new head of our Financial the Group generate income at a compound Markets business Roberto Hoornweg annual growth rate of between 5 and $1.5bn explained our plans to re-establish it as a 7 per cent in the medium term, with our leading risk manager in global markets and personal banking businesses likely to grow 2016: $1.4bn the leading provider in emerging markets.
at a relatively faster rate than our corporate 2015: $0.9bn businesses, given our focus on optimising the The Retail Banking business has continued returns from our credit portfolios.
We expect to attract more af uent clients in core to achieve this growth while tightly managing commercial cities across our footprint and costs, which we aim to increase below the to improve our digital offering.
We have rate of in ation across the Group.
The successfully targeted Priority clients with operating leverage this creates, together improved wealth and advice products and with our continued focus on risks, will enable a more focused service offering.
As a result, us to deliver an underlying return on equity the proportion of income generated from that above 8 per cent in the medium term.
Proportion of Retail Banking income segment grew from 39 per cent to nearly generated from Priority clients 45 per cent in 2017, constituting most of the Continued focus on conduct businesss 7 per cent income growth in the year, excluding the effect of exiting Thailand Group-wide awareness of our collective and the Philippines.
Over the same period responsibility to our clients and the 45 % the proportion of Retail Banking clients that communities that we serve has tangibly are digitally active rose from just under improved.
We have developed and 2016: 39% 40 per cent to around 45 per cent.
implemented a framework fide ning and 2015: 35% identifying good conduct, and I have made it Ben Hung, who took over as CEO of Retail a strategic priority in 2018 for every segment Banking in November, will host an investor and region rigorously to review, re ne and seminar later in the first half of this year in strengthen our conduct environment.
While which he will further explain our plans and incidents cannot be entirely avoided, we have ambitions for this business.
no tolerance nor appetite for breaches of laws and regulations, and are determined to ensure that our employees do the right thing.
Proportion of Retail Banking clients that are digitally active 45 % 2016: 40% 2015: 36% 07 Group Chief Executives STRATEGIC REPORT review Group Chief Executives review continued It also remains a central part of our mission to investigations of past conduct and are Conclusion help combat financial crime.
Over the course engaged in ongoing discussions to resolve We have made encouraging progress in of 2017, our work has made a real impact by them.
Concluding these historical matters, transforming the Group, the path ahead is identifying and preventing criminal activity in which could have a substantial financial clear and we are now well positioned to drive the financial system.
We continue to innovate, impact, remains a focus for us.
sustainable pro t growth across our markets.
putting into place more ef cient and effective We remain focused on improving our service tools, practices and processes that should The external outlook to our clients, generating strong returns for position us among the leaders in discovering The global economic environment continues our investors, and contributing even more and disrupting financial crime.
Productivity remains weak but to the communities in which we operate.
responsibility as a leading international bank is improving, and in ation remains low.
This will enable us to realise the Groups seriously and continue to invest signi cantly Commodity prices have increased but are still full potential.
in improving standards across our markets at levels that do not threaten global growth.
through our correspondent banking and new Geopolitical risks remain high but have not NGO academies.
Signi cantly, in 2017, the affected economic activity.
We expect these New York State Department of Financial conditions to persist for some time, and as Services recognised that the Group has such expect interest rates to continue to made substantial progress towards normalise and trade volumes to increase.
Bill Winters remediating past financial crime controls We expect the Middle East region to return Group Chief Executive issues and noted that we remain fully to growth in 2018, while many sub-Saharan committed to nishing the job.
As described 27 February 2018 Africa economies are showing signs of on page 259, we continue to cooperate with stabilisation and recovery.
authorities in the US and the UK in their Management Team 13.
Bill Winters, CBE Group Chief Executive Group General Counsel Regional CEO, Group Head of Corporate, Africa & Middle East Public and Regulatory Affairs 2.
Dr Michael Gorriz Group Chief Financial Of cer Group Chief Information Of cer 10.
Mark Smith Regional CEO, ASEAN Group Chief Risk Of cer 3.
Doris Honold & South Asia: and CEO, Regional CEO, Europe Group Chief Operating Of cer 14.
Pam Walkden Commercial and Private Banking & Americas Group Head, Human Resources 8.
Simon Cooper Regional CEO, Greater China CEO, Singapore and ASEAN CEO, Corporate & & North Asia: and CEO, Markets Malaysia, Vietnam, Institutional Banking Retail Banking Thailand and Rep Of ces Standard Chartered 08 Annual Report 2017 Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity Financial crime controls can prevent legitimate payments to and from Working with NGOs development and non-pro t organisations providing humanitarian programmes in countries where bribery, corruption and to ght financial crime money laundering are prevalent.
We are helping these clients to mitigate Our efforts to ght financial crime can have unintended financial crime risk through education.
In October 2017, we hosted our first Financial consequences for clients that deliver critical humanitarian Crime Risk Management workshop in services to people in need Washington for US-headquartered clients in partnership with the World Bank Group, World Vision and the US NGO-membership group InterAction.
The event shared international best practices in financial crime compliance and showed organisations how they could strengthen their fraud, anti-money laundering and counterterrorist nancing controls.
We also offer free financial crime compliance e-learning.
modules to our NGO clients.
