STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Group Chief Risk Of cers review A refreshed approach to managing risk 2017 was a year of continued progress factors constantly reshape our business member of the Cyber Defence Alliance, for the management of risk in the Group.
We have a number of ongoing an external organisation which facilitates With stronger origination discipline and initiatives that will further enhance the risk information sharing with UK banks and targeted growth, the Group has seen management framework and capability of the law enforcement: a board member of the improved asset quality across our Group.
Here is an update of the progress Financial Services Information Sharing & businesses.
Loan impairment was lower, against our key priorities in 2017.
Analysis Center: and a member of the and diversi cation across industry sectors National Cyber-Forensics & Training Strengthen the Groups risk culture and geographies increased as the Group Alliance, for real-time information sharing We have made good progress on continued to add new clients selectively.
The Group also operates a embedding a strong risk culture and Our focus on embedding a sustainable Collective Intelligence & Command Centre increased focus on frontline ownership of risk culture and an effective enterprise risk to coordinate physical and cyber security risk, alongside further development of our management approach is helping to build responses to incidents Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
a more resilient bank for the bene t of our This facilitates more dynamic risk Enhance the compliance management colleagues, clients and investors.
identi cation and enables us to establish framework We have enhanced our We have made signi cant progress in a clear linkage between strategic decisioncompliance systems and controls, and our work to combat financial crime and making and risk management, as well as improved the capability of our compliance have increased focus on our cyber risk identifying and managing correlations resources.
We have embedded ownership management capabilities.
We recognise across risk types and responsibility for conduct across our that these are continually evolving threats geographic footprint, businesses and Manage and improve information and and we cannot stand still in our ght to protect functions in a systematic and sustainable cyber security High pro le security our business and society more generally.
We have strengthened our efforts breaches have been a recurring focus in In addition we have developed a framework to promote awareness of, and con dence the media headlines and among regulators to re ne and strengthen our conduct in the Speaking Up Programme including throughout 2017.
We are placing even environment, and this will be a key priority extending our Speaking Up channels to greater emphasis on improving our in 2018.
Risk is a shared responsibility of the public defences, creating stronger control everyone in the Group, and is an intrinsic frameworks, and expanding intelligence Further details on the Groups Speaking Up part of every decision that we make.
Programme can be found in the Directors Report sharing efforts to keep pace with the page 68 evolving threats in cyberspace.
The Groups An update on our key deepening network of external partnerships Manage financial crime risks We risk priorities strengthen our own intelligence efforts as are committed to playing our part in the well as those across the broader financial Risk management is a dynamic process.
The Group is a founding Market-wide and company-speci c to enhance our controls, systems and processes in 2017 as well as continuing to educate and engage all of our people on financial crime risk and the human and social harm of such crimes.
The financial crime landscape continues to evolve, and we recognise the need to be vigilant against new and transforming threats as well as adapting to changes in relevant regulation and sanctions regimes.
In 2017 we built a dedicated Cyber Financial Intelligence team in the US, and continued our Correspondent Banking Academy initiative across all of the regions in which we operate.
This programme seeks to support our clients in enhancing their financial crime controls, and share international best practices and learning materials.
In October 2017 we also held our first Financial Crime Risk Management Academy for non-government organisations as part of our fide-risking Mark Smith through education initiative.
Our Group Chief Risk Of cer collaborative approach enables us 33 Group Chief Risk Of cers STRATEGIC REPORT review to continue providing services which are number of exposures in Corporate & It also strengthens the Groups capabilities to vital to the world economy in a safe and Institutional Banking from oil and gas support understand, articulate and control the nature sound way services and India.
The majority of these and level of risks we take while still effectively counterparties were on early alert for an serving our clients.
More information about the Groups commitment extended period prior to transferring to NPL to ghting financial crime can be found at As part of this initiative, a revised Enterprise and do not indicate any new areas of stress sc.
com ghting nancialcrime Risk Management Framework was approved for the overall portfolio.
in December 2017, for implementation in 2018.
Improve the risk and compliance We continue to focus on early identi cation We are continuing to develop a well-fide ned, infrastructure The Group has of emerging risks so that we can manage healthy risk culture that is understood multiple initiatives underway to improve any areas of weakness on a proactive basis.
across the Group, as well as a clear control infrastructure for compliance risk framework with sharper delineation of The cover ratio of NPLs in the ongoing management, exposure management, responsibilities between the three lines of business reduced from 69 per cent to data quality, stress testing, operational risk defence.
Further details on the Groups three 63 per cent, and including collateral management and reporting.
We have also lines of defence model are set out in the improved to 79 per cent from 74 per cent.
worked to streamline and simplify our Enterprise Risk Management Framework processes to serve clients better and Global financial markets experienced low section page 161.
We are also formalising drive internal ef ciencies volatility and average Group VaR was the links between our strategy, risk appetite 19 per cent lower than the previous year at and stress testing to facilitate more dynamic Our risk pro le and performance $26 million 2016: $32 million.
The largest risk identi cation and develop management in2017 operational risk loss recognised as at processes which clearly integrate risk 31 December 2017 relates to the Groups considerations into strategic decision making.
The quality of our loan book has improved $17.2 million settlement of a United States in 2017, with a focus on better quality new As part of these changes we have made class action brought against a number origination driving a stronger portfolio across a number of amendments to our Principal of banks concerning foreign exchange all business segments, although we remain Risk Types.
Speci cally we have elevated benchmark rates.
watchful for any emerging risks.
This is Compliance, Information and Cyber security, aligned to a more granular risk appetite and Financial crime, and Conduct risk to Further details of the 2017 risk performance are set enterprise-wide risk management approach.
out in the Risk update pages 120 to 121 and the Principal Risk Types.
These were previously Risk pro le section pages 122 to 159 Our capital and liquidity positions remain incorporated within the risk sub-types under strong, with all metrics above regulatory Operational risk.
Principal Risk Types are risks thresholds.
The Groups client exposures that are inherent in our strategy and business An update to our risk remain predominantly short tenor and our model and have been formally fide ned in management approach portfolio is well diversi ed across various the Groups Enterprise Risk Management It is critical that our risk management dimensions.
The framework provides a approach continues to evolve and develop structure for the monitoring and control of We have seen a signi cant decrease in loan to meet the ever-changing risk landscape these risks through the Board-approved Risk impairment across all businesses, with facing our business, to ensure it remains Appetite.
The Group will not compromise overall loan impairment down 51 per cent relevant and effective in generating safe adherence to its Risk Appetite in order to to $1.4 billion in the last 12 months.
and sustainable performance and growth pursue revenue growth or higher returns.
In 2017 we embarked on a Overall gross non-performing loans NPLs The table below shows the Groups Principal key initiative to build out the Enterprise Risk for the Group have reduced as increases in Risk Types and how they are managed.
This allows the Group the ongoing book were more than offset by Further details on Principal Risks are set out in the to identify and manage risks holistically, planned reductions in the liquidation portfolio.
Risk management approach pages 165 to 178 ensuring the appropriate governance, Gross non-performing loans NPLs for the oversight and information is in place to run a ongoing business increased from $5.9 billion safe, secure and well-controlled organisation.
to $6.5 billion in 2017, driven by a small Principal Risk Types How these are managed Credit risk The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle of diversi cation across products, geographies, client segments and industry sectors Country risk The Group manages its country cross-border exposures following the principle of diversi cation across geographies and controls business activities in line with the level of jurisdiction risk Market risk The Group controls its trading portfolio and activities to ensure that market risk losses financial or reputational do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise Capital and liquidity risk The Group maintains a strong capital position including the maintenance of management buffers suf cient to support its strategic aims and holds an adequate buffer of high quality liquid assets to survive extreme but plausible liquidity stress scenarios for at least 60 days without recourse to extraordinary central bank support Operational risk The Group controls operational risks to ensure that operational losses financial or reputational, including any related to conduct of business matters, do not cause material damage to the Group's franchise Reputational risk The Group protects the franchise from material damage to its reputation by ensuring that any business activity is satisfactorily assessed and managed by the appropriate level of management and governance oversight Compliance The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations, recognising that whilst regulatory breaches or noncompliance are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided Conduct The Group strives to maintain the standards in our Code of Conduct and outcomes of our Conduct Framework, by continuously demonstrating that we Do The Right Thing in the way we do business Information and The Group seeks to avoid risk and uncertainty for our critical information assets and systems and has a low appetite for cyber security material incidents affecting these or the wider operations and reputation of the bank Financial crime The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to Financial crime, recognising that whilst incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided 1 Pension risk is now a risk sub-type of Market risk and Strategic risk has been integrated as part of the overall Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Further details of updates to our Principal Risk Types are discussed in the Principal Risks section pages 165 to 178 Standard Chartered 34 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Principal uncertainties The revised Enterprise Risk Management Framework will provide a consolidated way of managing risk, and result in more proactive conversations about strategic risk.
We have continued to roll out a more granular and well-fide ned risk appetite which enables our business to grow in a strong and sustainable manner, but we are aware of principal uncertainties on the horizon that are not fully clear and measurable.
Here is a summary of the principal uncertainties that the Group faces, and the steps that we are taking to manage them.
Risk trend 1 Principal uncertainties since 2016 How these are mitigated next steps Geopolitical events, in particular: We continuously monitor and assess geopolitical events and, where appropriate, manage the impact to the Group and our clients.
increase in trade protectionism, Korean peninsula geopolitical We conduct stress tests and portfolio reviews at a Group, country and business level to tensions, the Middle East assess the impact of extreme but plausible geopolitical events.
political situation and post-Brexit implications We have a Business Risk Horizon framework that provides a 12- to 18-month forward view Macroeconomic conditions, in of the economic, business and credit conditions across our key markets, enabling us to take particular: moderation of growth proactive action.
in key footprint markets led by We monitor economic trends and conduct stress tests and portfolio reviews at a Group, China and sharp interest rate country and business level to assess the impact of extreme but plausible events.
rises and asset corrections We are developing an approach for assessing energy utilities clients power generation Climate-related physical risks NEW 2 assets against a range of physical and transition risks, under multiple climate scenarios and and transition risks a range of time horizons.
We are considering how we extend this to other sectors in 2018.
We have made a public commitment to fund and facilitate $4 billion toward clean technology between 2016 and 2020.
We have invested in improving compliance controls, including increasing the capacity and Regulatory reviews and capability of compliance resources, enhancing systems and controls, and implementing investigations, legal proceedings remediation programmes where relevant.
We are cooperating with all relevant ongoing reviews, requests for information and investigations and we actively manage legal proceedings, including in respect of legacy issues.
Regulatory changes and We monitor regulatory initiatives across our footprint to identify any potential impact and change to our business model.
tax reforms We have established speci c regulatory programmes to ensure effective and ef cient implementation of changes required by new, or changes in existing, regulations.
New technologies and digitisation NEW We continuously monitor developments in the technology space affecting the banking sector and the Group Management Team is exploring in more depth our approach to innovation.
We are engaged in a series of initiatives with the aim of building our capabilities to ensure we remain relevant in a position to capitalise rapidly on technology trends.
Risk heightened in 2017 Risk remained consistent with 2016 levels 1 Principal uncertainties refer to unpredictable and uncontrollable outcomes from certain events and circumstances which may have the potential to impact our business materially 2 Physical risks refer to the risk of increased extreme weather events while transition risks refer to the risk of changes to market dynamics due to governments response to climatechange Cyber risk now forms part of our Principal Risk Types which we control and mitigate through distinct risk type frameworks, policies and riskappetite.
Further details on Principal uncertainties, including key changes in respect of 2016, are set out in the RIsk Management Approach pages 179 to 182 Conclusion We continue to make strides in building a sustainable franchise in the interests of all our stakeholders.
In order to drive commerce and prosperity, our organisation must take a long-term view by putting the needs of our clients first, supported by the right culture, people and practices.
Though there will be headwinds along the way, we will continue with our mission to be an industry leader championing trust, integrity and quality.
Mark Smith Group Chief Risk Of cer 27 February 2018 35
