Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review In 2018, the group will continue to rebuild trust with our customers, regulators, shareholders and employees.
The groups turnaround is making progress, but the Board and I realise there is still much to do to achieve a customer centric business delivering long-term sustainable returns to our shareholders.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer Strategy The group plays an important social purpose in providing The groups businesses hold strong positions in their respective access to credit to the approximately 10 to 12 million people markets, and the future prospects of the groups businesses equivalent to approximately 20% of the UK adult population will be strengthened by the governance and cultural changes as at 31 December 2017 in the UK non-standard market which already made and planned.
The actions required to refocus on remains in demand and highly valued.
The Board believes that the customer first, together with any further actions that may the need and demand for responsibly provided affordable credit, be required, will result in a moderation of returns.
However, delivered in a way that is tailored to the needs of non-standard the Board believes that a target ROA of around 10% per annum customers, remains strong across the product sectors in which alongside receivables growth of between 5% and 10% per the group operates.
Therefore, the Board believes that there annum is both achievable and sustainable for the group as the remains an attractive opportunity for specialised non-standard home credit business moves to profitability in 2019, subject to lenders such as the group in the UK.
15 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued as well as to interact more effectively with Strategy continued 2017 results customers in the way they prefer.
The group plans tocontinue to evolve and seek to use The groups businesses have strong The group has reported a profit before new proven technologies to meet the needs customer focused growth strategies going tax, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and preferences of its customers better, forward which position them well to deliver and exceptional items of 109.1m and improve the efficiency of resources attractive returns for shareholders: 2016: 334.1m, down by 67.3% on 2016, deployed in serving them.
For example, the reflecting the significant impairment arising group is developing innovative ways tohelp Vanquis Bank aims to maintain its leading as a result of the operational disruption in customers understand and monitor their position in non-standard credit cards, home credit following the poorly executed financial health more clearly and simply, continue to expand into the near-prime migration to the new operating model in along with the options open to them, sector and develop an instalment July 2017.
Vanquis Bank, Moneybarn and which could help improve their standing loans business: Satsuma have continued to experience good or reduce the overall costs of borrowing.
Adjusted basic earnings per share CCD aims to retain and build upon its This use of technology also makes it easier of 62.5p 2016: 177.5p reduced by 64.8%, market-leading position in home credit for customers to take action based on broadly in line with the reduction in adjusted based on a differentiated approach to an up to date and comprehensive view profit before tax.
customer service and compliance in oftheir situation.
the sector: Exceptional costs of 224.6m have been The groups businesses have worked charged in 2017 comprising: i the estimated Satsuma aims to continue its growth together very effectively in certain areas cost of 172.1m in respect of customer andmove into profitability: and to share resources and expertise, such as restitution, other expenses and a fine Vanquis Banks collections capabilities which Moneybarn aims to maintain its leadership following resolution of the FCA investigation support Satsuma.
There are also some position in non-standard car finance into ROP in Vanquis Bank: ii the estimated areas where supplier relationships have through widening its channel presence cost of 20.0m arising from the ongoing been successfully shared and leveraged, and product range including building FCA investigation into affordability and and where shared customer relationships alarger direct business.
forbearance at Moneybarn: and iii 32.5m have been piloted.
However, the groups in respect of redundancy, retention, training Underpinning the plans of each of the businesses have largely been developed and consultancy costs associated with the businesses is the effective use ofproven and operated separately which provides an migration to the new home credit operating new technologies to deliver better customer opportunity to serve customers better and model and subsequent implementation experiences and deliver them more improve efficiency over time by implementing of the recovery plan to re-establish efficiently.
The group has successfully greater coordination and cooperation relationships with customers and stabilise evolved its product offering and operations going forward.
The group will increasingly the operation.
over time through the deployment of new seek to drive the building and organising technologies and sophisticated techniques of its resources and skills by what serves As a result of the exceptional costs charged that better meet customer needs, help the customer needs the best, in the most in the year, the group reported a statutory demonstrate compliance with regulatory efficient way, rather than necessarily being loss before tax of 123.0m 2016: profit of requirements and increase efficiency.
based on individual businesses operating 343.9m and a basic loss per share of 90.7p For example, in Vanquis Bank, non-voice inisolation.
The groups revised approach 2016: earnings per share of 181.8p.
promises to pay from customers have willalso help implement the cultural shift Vanquis Bank delivered an adjusted profit surpassed call centre interactions as thatthe group is seeking to achieve resulting before tax of 206.6m, 1.0% higher than customers increasingly want to use online, in a more seamless group product offering 2016 2016: 204.5m.
This reflects the automated, app-based and mobile account and customer progression.
impact of a more stable delinquency management options introduced by the performance compared with the improving business.
Across the group, apps have profile in the first nine months of 2016, been successfully deployed and developed the reduction in ROP income following the to replace paper and manual processes, voluntary suspension of sales in April 2016 and an additional year-on-year investment of approximately 12m to augment the medium-term growth potential of the business.
New credit card customer bookings of 437,000 were up 7.6% on last year, benefiting from the actions put in place during the second half of 2016 to develop the credit card proposition and enhance 16 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report distribution, including the launch of the operating model in the UK which in due on-year growth of 22.0%, and receivables, Chrome near prime credit card.
Year-oncourse should allow the business to own prior to balance reduction, were 376.2m, year customer growth of 11.3% and average and manage all aspects of the customer showing year-on-year growth of 26.5%.
receivables growth of 14.6% have been journey and exercise greater control over The annualised risk-adjusted margin has delivered against credit standards that were customer interactions.
The primary focus moderated from 24.1% to December 2016 tightened in the third quarter, recognising of the recovery plan is to re-establish to 21.8% to December 2017 reflecting the uncertainties faced by the UK economy.
relationships with customers, stabilise the additional impairment associated with the In line with previous guidance, the annualised operation of the business and improve step-up in new business volumes and the risk-adjusted margin has moderated from collections performance.
Good progress flow through of impairment from higher risk 32.2% to December 2016 to 30.2% to has been made in implementing the categories of business prior to the tightening December 2017, reflecting a reduction in recovery plan since September with the of underwriting in the second quarter.
the revenue yield due to a further decline in actions taken by management delivering The groups CET 1 ratio as at 31 December the penetration of ROP within the customer a significant improvement in customer 2017 was 14.5% 2016: 21.9% and is stated base and some moderation in the interest service and operational performance.
after the provision for the estimated cost of yield from the changing mix of business.
On 16 January 2018, the business also the FCA investigations of 192.1m which has The loans proposition, initially offered to the announced the rationalisation of the home been reflected in the 2017 year-end balance established Vanquis Bank customer base, credit central support functions in order sheet.
This is below the groups minimum continues to make encouraging progress, to align the cost base to the reduced size regulatory capital requirement of a CET 1 and has now moved from pilot phase.
The home credit business ratio of 25.5%, which has increased primarily ended the year with 527,000 2016: 782,000 CCD reported an adjusted loss before tax due to an increase of approximately 100m active customers and a receivables book of in 2017 of 118.8m 2016: profit of 115.2m, in respect of conduct and operational risk 352.2m 2016: 560.0m and is on-track and reflecting significant impairment arising assessments.
On an unaudited pro forma well-placed to continue with execution of the as a result of the operational disruption in basis, after assuming receipt of the proposed recovery plan.
home credit following the poorly executed rights issue net proceeds of 300m, the migration to the new operating model in Satsuma has continued to make further groups CET 1 ratio at 31 December 2017 July 2017. progress in developing its product would increase to 28.7%.
distribution, digital platform and The new home credit operating model, At 31 December 2017, the group had cash further lending capability during 2017. which involves employing full-time CEMs to resources of 34m, excluding the liquid The business is generating a strong flow serve customers rather than using selfassets buffer held by Vanquis Bank, and of new business and further lending employed agents, was launched on 6 July headroom on the groups committed debt following the improvements made to the 2017.
During the period in the run-up to the facilities amounted to 66m.
The flow of retail customer journey and product proposition launch of the new model in May and June, deposits within Vanquis Bank has continued in the second half of 2016, including the business experienced higher operational in line with its internal funding plan and the the introduction of a monthly product.
disruption than anticipated, with agent additional capacity for Vanquis Bank to take In addition, the business has continued attrition rates and vacancy levels adversely retail deposits amounted to 77m at the end to successfully develop its multi-channel impacting collections, sales penetration, of 2017. distribution capability including the customer retention and profits.
Following the recent roll-out of the new mobile app.
The groups funding strategy will be launch of the new model, poor execution As a result, new business and further broadly unchanged following the proposed in implementation resulted in a significant lending volumes increased by 30% on 2016 rights issue.
This will include maintaining amount of further unforeseen disruption and customer numbers increased from committed facilities to meet contractual in July and August as the model was too 55,000 at 31 December 2016 to 79,000 maturities and fund growth for at least the prescriptive in the way the workforce was at 31 December 2017 and receivables following 12 months and continued access managed and the re-design of territories and increased from 18.2m to 35.8m over the to three main sources of funding comprising: CEM rounds resulted in both discontinuity same period.
The business reported a loss i the syndicated revolving bank facility: and disruption to customer relationships.
before tax of approximately 5m in 2017, ii market funding, including retail bonds, The combination of these factors resulted modestly lower than around 6m in 2016, institutional bonds and private placements: in a significant increase in arrears and which was adverse to internal plans.
The loss and iii retail deposits which will fully fund impairment and led to the home credit reflects the strong growth in the monthly a ring-fenced Vanquis Bank in the short to business reporting a pre-exceptional product during 2017, the underwriting of medium term.
In addition, the group will loss of approximately 114m in the year which has been tightened during the latter actively consider other funding options compared with a pre-exceptional profit part of the year in response to higher than following completion of the proposed ofapproximately 121m in 2016. planned impairment.
Completion ofthe proposed The leadership team in CCD was changed rights issue is designed to allow the group Moneybarn has delivered a 9.6% increase in late August 2017 with Chris Gillespie to re-establish normal access to funding in adjusted profits to 34.1m in 2017 returning to the group as Managing Director, from the bank and debt capital markets.
Extension of both the having previously held this role until 2013.
Following the proposed rights issue, the product offering and distribution channels A recovery plan was developed through group will be funded through to May 2020 and further service enhancements to September which retains the employed when the groups revolving syndicated bank intermediaries has generated new business facilities mature.
As a result, customer numbers were 50,000 at the end of the year, showing year- 17 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued Based on the target level of returns and Capital, balance sheet maintaining an appropriate capital structure, Outlook for 2018 andfinancial model the groups dividend policy is to maintain a dividend cover ratio of at least 1.4 times once The major uncertainties faced by the To support the delivery of the groups the home credit recovery plan has been fully group through a very difficult 2017 are strategy, the group will continue to operate delivered during 2018.
The Board remains now resolved and the valuable franchises afinancial model that is founded on investing strongly committed to the payment of future of the groups business have been in capital generative businesses offering dividends and delivering long-term value to protected.
The home credit recovery plan an attractive return, and which aligns the shareholders.
The group will therefore aim is on-track and the groups regulatory dividend policy with a strong capital base and to restore dividends with a nominal dividend agenda focused on the customer first future growth plans.
for the 2018 financial year before adopting a will underpin the delivery of sustainable progressive dividend, in line with the above growth and returns.
Having taken steps focused on ensuring dividend policy, from the 2019 financial year.
that the customer comes first, the Board The proposed rights issue provides accepts that returns will moderate as a The group has engaged with its lending a strong capital base and access to result, although the Directors believe that banks and M&G and, subject to a successful the funding that will allow the groups they remain attractive.
The Board consider rights issue, the lending banks and M&G businesses to develop their marketthat a target ROA of approximately 10% is have agreed to amend certain covenants leading positions.
a sustainable level of return for the group attaching to the syndicated revolving The Board remains strongly committed to as the home credit business moves to bank facility and the M&G term loan resuming the payment of dividends, with profitability in 2019 and after taking account respectively.
The net worth covenant has a nominal dividend for the 2018 financial of the outcome of the FCAs investigation into been temporarily reduced from 400m to year before adopting a progressive Vanquis Banks ROP, meeting forthcoming 375m at 31 December 2017 and 31 March dividend, in line with its revised dividend changes in regulation which include 2018, the net worth excluding Vanquis Bank cover policy of at least 1.4 times, from the anticipated changes arising out of the FCAs covenant has been temporarily reduced 2019 financial year.
Credit Card Market Study and CP17 27 from 155m to 100m at 31 December 2017 Assessing creditworthiness in consumer and 31 March 2018 and the interest cover Each of the groups businesses has credit and delivering good customer covenant has been temporarily reduced from performed well through the early weeks outcomes.
The Directors also believe that 2.0 times to 1.25 times for the 12 months of the year.
there are attractive growth opportunities ending 31 March 2018 and 30 June 2018. available to each of the groups businesses These amendments would cease to have within the non-standard credit market effect if the rights issue were not to proceed which would allow for receivables growth and complete.
Malcolm Le May ofbetween 5% and 10% per annum, subject The Directors believe that once the Chief Executive Officer to economic conditions and maintaining proceeds of a successful rights issue have 27 February 2018 thegroups minimum returns thresholds.
been deployed, the business model is The revised minimum regulatory capital attractive and sustainable within a robust requirement of the group is a CET 1 ratio governance and oversight framework, of25.5%, which includes an additional capital and the future prospects of the group are requirement of approximately 100m in strong.
The Directors also believe that the respect of conduct and operational risks group offers an attractive proposition for compared with the previous assessment.
shareholders based firmly on good outcomes The Board expects to maintain a suitable for customers and a sound financial model.
level of headroom against the minimum Finally, the success of our future business will regulatory capital requirement to support be predicated on putting our customers first ongoing access to funding from the bank in our thinking and actions.
We are proud anddebt capital markets.
leaders in our sector and can only maintain this position by establishing exemplary relations with our regulators, the FCA, PRA and CBI.
Further more, our success is predicated on our employees working together across our operating subsidiaries and capitalising upon the demonstrable experience we have established over 140 years.
