STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The strength of our balance sheet meant that the proceeds from the sale of our Coal & Allied thermal coal business were returned to Chief executives statement shareholders by way of a US$2.5 billion supplementary buy-back.
Mine-to-market productivity Across our business, from mine to market, we are looking to add Dear shareholders, value, not just cut costs, by harnessing thousands of productivity It is a great privilege to lead Rio Tinto, a company that has been initiatives.
pioneering progress for 145 years, with a commitment to delivering Lifting the performance of our US$50 billion asset base is among the superior value for our shareholders over the short, medium and long most value-accretive programmes we can deliver within our direct term.
I am very pleased to report that in 2017 we delivered on this Since 2012, we have reduced our costs by US$8.3 billion and last year commitment, declaring total cash returns to shareholders of we committed to a five-year, US$5 billion productivity agenda.
In US$9.7 billion for the year, including a record full year dividend of 2017, we delivered US$0.4 billion of additional free cash flow from US$5.2 billion.
This was made possible by our relentless focus on our our mine-to-market productivity programme against a backdrop of value-over-volume approach, disciplined capital allocation and the rising raw material costs across the industry.
hard work of our 47,000 employees.
Our productivity agenda is multi-faceted and focused in four areas: Across the company, we are looking to step up our performance, securing and embedding gains through deploying best practice starting with safety.
approaches: working with our partners: harnessing automation opportunities: and using the power of data in our business to lift the Safety comes first utilisation of our equipment and assets.
Safety is one of Rio Tintos core values and will always be our first We have thousands of productivity initiatives across the company priority.
from lifting truck utilisation rates to energy management systems.
Overall, it is pleasing to report that our safety performance improved Every tonne, every half per cent matters.
Our critical safety indicators are moving in the right direction Rio Tinto prides itself on its pioneering approach to new technologies, but we have more to do.
to deliver faster and better processes, cleaner and greener outcomes.
In October 2017, a colleague died at our Rio Tinto Kennecott copper There are many examples, from automated trucks and trains, to smelter in the US.
I met with his workmates at the operation and remote operated drills and drones.
In exploration with indicator committed to share the learnings from the incident across the minerals, to construction with 3D modelling for new projects, to the business.
many proprietary technologies in our Canadian smelters delivering In the same month, there was a health-related death of a colleague efficiency, productivity and a competitive cost profile.
Our strategy, supported by the appointment of a chief commercial In 2017, three people died at our non-managed sites.
officer, also has a strong emphasis on better understanding the markets in which we operate and partnering with our customers to All of these tragedies are deeply distressing and we must do better.
develop new products of most value to them, such as new aluminium Our safety strategy has many components and, over the past year, we alloys for the automotive industry.
completed the roll out of our critical risk management CRM fatality prevention programme across more than 60 sites.
CRM focuses on We are also working with our equipment suppliers, making the best the tasks and critical risks within an individuals direct control, and, use of their expertise and insights to plan together and consider during the year, more than 1.4 million critical control verifications technology roadmaps for the smart mines of the future.
Portfolio: Developing a world-class asset portfolio We also go beyond physical safety.
For any given task, the state of mind and health and wellbeing of our people is also important.
That is The past year saw a strengthening of Rio Tintos portfolio, solid why we are actively involved in promoting mental health awareness progress on our high-value return projects, and the exploration of programmes and fatigue management initiatives.
In 2018, we will do all we can to make our employees and operations In terms of our growth projects, we completed construction of the safer in the year ahead.
Silvergrass mine in the Pilbara and now have studies under way for the Koodaideri project for early next decade to replenish and maintain Performance: Strong results the quality of our Pilbara iron ore blend.
Rio Tintos value-over-volume approach and an increase in prices for In Mongolia, at Oyu Tolgoi, construction of the underground some of our commodities combined to deliver both higher company development proceeds at pace and first copper production from this margins and cash generation in 2017. world-class asset is due in 2020.
We delivered US$18.6 billion of EBITDA and cash of US$13.9 billion in In Cape York, Australia, the Amrun bauxite project is now more than 2017.
We improved margins to the best in a decade with an EBITDA half complete.
With equity interests in four of the worlds largest margin for the year of 44 per cent.
bauxite mines, we are in a prime position to grow.
The Iron Ore group delivered free cash flow of US$7.3 billion and FOB Structural changes occurring in Chinas aluminium sector, combined free on board EBITDA margins of 68 per cent as customers with an emerging carbon emissions scheme, provide us with the demanded our higher-quality product.
opportunity to look at a staged expansion of our hydro-powered low-cost Canadian smelters.
We will advance these studies during The Aluminium group delivered US$1.4 billion in free cash flow, with 2018. an integrated operations EBITDA margin of 35 per cent: our highest in more than a decade.
This was achieved despite increases in input With a view to the future, within our Energy & Minerals group we costs as a result of inflationary cost pressure in the industry more established a unit to look at new opportunities in metals and minerals generally.
associated with new technologies, trends and the needs of an urbanising and changing world.
The Copper & Diamonds group delivered free cash flow of US$0.3 billion, including US$1.2 billion in capital expenditure as An example of this is our Jadar lithium-borates project.
Lithium and activity ramped up at the Oyu Tolgoi underground project.
borates are used in products as diverse as batteries for electrical vehicles, smartphones and fertiliser.
The Energy & Minerals group delivered free cash flow of US$1.5 billion taking advantage of our latent capacity and better Our commitment to exploration remains strong.
In 2017, we forged a market conditions.
global exploration collaboration agreement with China Minmetals Corporation, and around the world we are actively partnering, Our focus on cash generation and disciplined capital allocation saw combining our global expertise with local knowledge and boots on the Rio Tinto close the year with net debt of US$3.8 billion, and a balance ground.
sheet amongst the strongest in our sector.
com 5 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information 18-year-old son of a nomadic herder, trained by teachers from a People: Engaged and capable employees participating school, represented his nation as a welder in an Our 47,000 employees in around 35 countries are focused on safety, international competition.
cash generation, productivity and living our values.
I had the In the US, the Resolution copper project supports science, opportunity to meet with many of our people during the year when technology, engineering and math STEM programmes in Arizona for visiting our operations, and also spent significant time with our children and teacher training for local high schools.
In Australia over many decades, we have partnered with a range of The way we work our code of conduct is underpinned by our universities and organisations to deliver STEM initiatives.
values: safety, teamwork, respect, integrity and excellence.
These In Beijing, China we extended our partnership with Tsinghua guide us every day, in the decisions we make, and in how we behave.
University focused on sharing best practice in resources, energy and In 2017, we spent considerable time communicating and discussing sustainable development.
This builds on our many partnerships with our values and code of conduct in a global programme which focused China.
on engaging Rio Tinto leaders.
This effort is now being pioneered by Last year, with Chinas Sinosteel Corporation, we celebrated 30 years employee values champions right across the business.
of the Channar iron ore joint venture in Western Australia: In 2017 we introduced a new leadership development programme a pioneering partnership that became a template for many others.
Leading for Success and revitalised our graduate and In addition, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Chinas high-potentials programme as we build a pipeline of talented future State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission leaders of our company.
We are also investing in building technical SASAC to develop executive training for Central State-owned and commercial capability in our workforce, which will enable us to Enterprise leaders on areas including stakeholder engagement, lead the industry in both operational and commercial excellence.
licence to operate, environmental and economic assessments and community engagement.
Partnership: Partnering for progress At Rio Tinto, our partnerships help us deliver our strategy and we Industry leadership must continue to provide our partners with confidence that we Our strong financial results for 2017 show the value of a world-class produce the essential materials the world needs, responsibly.
portfolio, a strong balance sheet, disciplined capital allocation and We never take our licence to operate for granted.
We know that, if we our excellent team.
are to be successful, we must continue to build strong partnerships at Our aim is to ensure everyone goes home safe every day: to build on every stage of our business through exploration, development, our productivity agenda: and to ensure our people, customers, operations and closure.
suppliers and our communities, as our partners, continue to share in In this report, you will see examples of our contributions to future success.
We want to leave a positive and lasting legacy for sustainable development throughout the lifecycle of our operations.
those that follow in our footsteps.
Right from the start of a project, we look for ways to provide work and business opportunities for our host communities, while protecting the We strive to be the most value-creating mining and metals company environment.
For example, at one of our key growth projects, Amrun in the industry and I can assure you our ambition in 2018 remains to in Australia, we are working in partnership with local businesses to achieve this.
maximise employment opportunities for local Aboriginal people.
In 2017, we strengthened our focus on engagement with our key stakeholders, including our host communities and governments, our employees, our supply chain partners, and with our industry peers through associations.
Our business invested US$176 million across nearly 1,300 J-S Jacques programmes covering health, education, environmental protection, Chief executive housing, agricultural and business development sectors.
28 February 2018 Education remains a key focus.
Often we are the education catalyst, working in partnership with schools, training providers and universities.
In Mongolia, programmes delivered by Oyu Tolgoi have seen more than 1,900 vocational teachers receive assistance.
