S STRA TRATEGIC TEGIC REPOR REPORT T CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS FOREWORD FOCUSED ON OPPORTUNITIES INA CHANGED INDUSTRY Tullow continues to positively benefit from the decisive and far-reaching changes we made tothebusiness in reaction to the oil price crash three years ago.
A new Executive Team DEAR SHAREHOLDER As I prepared to take over as CEO, my primary focus was to put In 2017 we continued to see the positive impact of the early together an ambitious, competent and committed team to take andsignificant actions we took to adjust the business in over as the new Executive of Tullow.
The extensive work we had reaction to the oil price crash in late 2014.
As we consolidated done over the years developing our people and planning for these measures we considered it was the right time to make succession ensured that I was able to find all the skills Iwas substantial changes to both the Board and the Executive Team looking for within Tullow.
The new Executive Team is committed toensure the Company was well positioned to start the journey to collective, fully informed decision making, continuing to build back togrowth.
on the financial discipline and efficiency we have embedded Simon Thompson, Ian Springett and Ann Grant all retired from into our business, and is determined to return the business the Board, and I would like to thank them for their personal togrowth.
commitment to Tullow and recognise the immense contribution they made to the Group.
Aidan, after 31 years as CEO, has Hard won discipline moved to Chairman providing me with significant support in The strong foundation we are building on has been achieved mynew role as CEO, which I have appreciated hugely.
through a great deal of hard work since 2014, when we began the process of change within Tullow to ensure we would be competitive in a world of $50 oil.
I would like to thank all our staff for everything that they have contributed to this effort: these have been difficult years with substantial reductions in headcount and an enormous focus on cost reduction, all of which In the same way we has resulted in significant uncertainty for everyone at Tullow.
have successfully Nevertheless, I see no appetite within Tullow to return to previous navigated the biggest spending patterns and key to maintaining this discipline is the new structure we have put in place with three accountable downturn in our Business Delivery Teams, West Africa, East Africa and New industrys recent Ventures, and a reduced and more focused Corporate Centre.
history, I believe wecan return the A stronger financial base In March 2017 we undertook a Rights Issue: I saw this Company to growth in $750million as the final part of resetting our business and, the recovery phase.
while I would have preferred my first task as incoming CEO not to have been to ask our shareholders for equity, we have already benefited and will continue to benefit fromthe operational and financial flexibility that it afforded us.
We have now reduced gearing to 2.6x net debt adjusted EBITDAX and this lower level of debt provides sufficient financial flexibility such that we have been able to allocate appropriate levels of capital expenditure to allow us to continue to invest inthe business such as our drilling programme in Ghana.
Continuing to reduce our debt remains a key target.
The successful and oversubscribed refinancing of our RBL facility inNovember 2017 shows the faith that our banking syndicate has in our quality assets and inour ability to remain financially focused and disciplined.
PAUL McDADE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 8 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 TULLOWS LONG-TERM PLANS & PROSPECTS Tullow is in a robust position, and oil prices have recently achieved higher levels, albeit with the potential for them to remain volatile.
This more positive outlook, and a contractor cost base that reflects a significantly more efficient industry, means we are now shifting from the short term to consider our long-term plans and prospects.
Our low-cost and long-life production in West Africa and, in time, East Africa will remain at the heart of the Groups strategy.
We will endeavour to manage these assets safely, to the highest 1 operational standards, utilising local staff and the local supply chain, whilst minimising costs and maximising production revenues.
We will use the free cash flow from these production revenues to reduce our debt, re-invest and, in time, deliver shareholder returns.
We will aim to build our reserves, resources and future production through targeted and disciplined exploration in geographies and geologies that we know well in Africa and South America.
We will 2 do this through continuous high-grading of our acreage portfolio, appropriately managing equities to extract value through farm-downs, whilst retaining material exposure toour preferred prospects, as we seek toextend our basin opening track record.
We will manage our asset portfolio through both divestments and acquisitions.
We will ensurethat we retain the appropriate equity in our assets for each stage in the cycle to 3 manage both value and risk.
We will also look to acquire assets that we consider can createvalue for our shareholders.
Our disciplined and returns-focused allocation of capital will remain at the forefront of our decision making.
Toughdecisions will be made and assets will have to compete for capital in a 4 market that remains in recovery.
Outlook Under my leadership it is not only our exceptional oil industry In the same way that we have successfully navigated the biggest competencies that will deliver value growth, it is our relationship downturn in our industrys recent history, I believe that by following skills that will continue to make a difference in Tullows financial these key principles we can return the Company to value growth performance as we again start to grow and take advantage of in the recovery phase.
The team at Tullow has a very strong the opportunities that an improving market will offer.
track record: we are recognised as a top industry explorer: we have successfully delivered two major deep-water developments both within budget and on time: we continue to safely and efficiently deliver production revenues: and we have astrong track record on portfolio management.
All ofthese skills are critical as we return the business to growth and positive financial Paul McDade returns.
However, critical skills we have developed as a Company Chief Executive Officer are the necessary relationship skills and understanding to work 6 February 2018 as a partner of choice to our emerging market host nations.
This success has been built through our focus on shared prosperity where we consider our shareholder returns are best served by a strong focus on local priorities.
These include employing and developing our local leadership and workforce, Our strategy 16 developing the local supply chain and working closely with our Organisation & Culture 50 local communities to ensure theyshare in the benefits our Shared Prosperity 52 industry can deliver.
