Strategic Report Chief Executive While Total Revenue declined over Officers Review the year, it rose in the last quarter of 2017, a sign of how we are steadily turning a corner.
2017 represented a defining year for AstraZeneca.
2018 will be equally important... After experiencing the falling revenues of Returning to growth recent years, as some of our best-selling Between 2011 and 2017, Product Sales in medicines lost exclusivity, our revenues Established Markets of our very successful improved over the course of 2017.
Strong older products that have lost exclusivity commercial execution helped us bring our reduced by more than $13 billion after taking science to more patients, making the most into account currency movements.
We expect of our exciting pipeline.
We made encouraging to lose a further $1 billion of Product Sales progress in all main therapy areas and in 2018, in particular through the loss of delivered strong growth in China, our second exclusivity for Crestor in Europe and Japan.
Overall, Total Revenue declined by 2% in 2017.
As shown in the table overleaf, Product Strategic progress Sales declined by 5% from $21,319 million In my Review for 2017, I would therefore like to to $20,152 million, including a decline in pay tribute to our achievements and look more Crestor sales of $1,036 million and Seroquel closely at five medicines we launched during XR sales of $403 million.
the year that bring both very real benefits to patients and underpin our future growth.
But now, a new AstraZeneca is emerging I also want to consider some of the challenges from those headwinds, helped by our Growth we face as we work to realise the full potential Platforms, which gathered momentum of our medicines and ensure we deliver our during the year and grew by 5% 6% at CER.
science to patients around the world.
They now represent 68% of Total Revenue.
The strategy we set ourselves in 2013 As well as launching five medicines last was based on three pillars.
We wanted to: year, we continued to unlock more uses for existing treatments, including for Lynparza Achieve Scientific Leadership and Tagrisso.
In addition, Brilinta Brilique Return to Growth and Farxiga Forxiga, by bringing benefits Be a Great Place to Work to millions of patients, each exceeded $1 billion in annual sales for the first time.
Achieving scientific leadership In the five years since then, we have Externalisation Revenue in 2017 increased launched 13 new molecular entities NMEs, by 37% 38% at CER to $2,313 million.
And, in 2017, Particularly significant was our global we brought those medicines to more people strategic oncology collaboration with MSD to with 19 major regional approvals a new co-develop and co-commercialise Lynparza AstraZeneca record.
It is an indicator for multiple cancer types.
We will also jointly of our scientific leadership in our three with MSD develop and seek to commercialise chosen therapy areas that we published our MEK inhibitor selumetinib, currently 82 manuscripts in high-impact scientific being developed for multiple indications, publications compared to 75 in 2016, and including thyroid cancer.
We are well on our way to meeting our longer-term goals of delivering one or more NMEs annually and sustainably delivering two NMEs annually by 2020.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Chief Executive Officers Review 5 Chief Executive Officers Review continued Global Product Sales by therapy area 2017 2016 2015 Actual CER Actual CER Actual CER Sales growth growth Sales growth growth Sales growth growth 19 $m % % $m % % $m % % 19 NME and major LCM Oncology 4,024 19 19 3,383 20 20 2,825 7 7 regional approvals Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases 7,266 10 10 8,116 14 13 9,489 3 4 Respiratory 4,706 1 1 4,753 5 3 4,987 2 7 Other Disease Areas 4,156 18 17 5,067 20 19 6,340 23 16 68% Total 20,152 5 5 21,319 10 8 23,641 9 1 Five Growth Platforms represent 68% of Total Revenue Being a great place to work Imfinzi durvalumab received accelerated As I talk to our employees around the world, approval from the FDA in May for the whether in our labs, offices or on the road with treatment of advanced bladder cancer.
5 our sales teams, I am constantly reminded It was a significant moment both for patients Five significant launches from that our achievements are only made possible who had limited treatment options and for each of our three therapy areas by a skilled and talented team who live our us as it was our first immuno-oncology IO Values and are true to our Purpose.
Imfinzi is the cornerstone of our extensive IO programme, in development It is they who are transforming AstraZeneca: across many tumour types, both as exploring new ways of working: improving monotherapy and with other medicines.
productivity: and embracing new technology.
Later in May, we announced positive top-line The culture we are creating is aimed at results for the Phase III PACIFIC trial as Imfinzi Our future releasing the talents of our people and demonstrated superior PFS in patients with enabling science to thrive.
We know there locally-advanced, unresectable NSCLC.
depends, is more we can do but we are simplifying how we work: improving diversity to reflect In October, the FDA granted accelerated however, the world and societies in which we work: approval of Calquence acalabrutinib as a and increasing our focus on sustainability.
treatment for relapsed or refractory mantle cell not only on Like the Chairman, I am particularly pleased to lymphoma MCL.
This represented another see the external recognition we are receiving landmark for us as it was our first approval in the number of for our sustainability activities.
We also have blood cancer and was approved less than five cause to celebrate the start of our Healthy months after its regulatory submission.
With a projects but the Lung Asia Programme, the third anniversary of development programme including more than our Healthy Heart Africa Programme and the 35 clinical trials in multiple blood cancers, quality of our seventh year of our Young Health Programme the promise of Calquence is significant.
science In February, the FDA approved Qtern Forxiga People at AstraZeneca know that scientific 10mg and Onglyza 5mg fixed-dose combination progress is best made when we take smart risks as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve in following the science.
We also know that glycaemic control in adults with Type 2 sometimes means we experience setbacks.
diabetes who have inadequate control with For example, in July, the initial results of the Forxiga 10mg or who are already treated MYSTIC trial showed that Imfinzi in combination with Forxiga and Onglyza.
with tremelimumab for 1st line non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC did not meet the primary Finally, in our Respiratory therapy area, endpoint of progression-free survival PFS.
Bevespi Aerosphere glycopyrrolate and The study for overall survival OS continues.
formoterol fumarate was launched in Following the Phase III programme results, the US for COPD, using, for the first time, we decided to discontinue the development our Aerosphere delivery technology that uses of tralokinumab, an antibody in severe, a pressurised metered-dose inhaler pMDI.
Earlier in the year, we received a second Complete Response Fasenra benralizumab was approved in Letter from the FDA for ZS-9, a potential new November in the US for patients with severe medicine for hyperkalaemia, an important asthma with an eosinophilic phenotype and area of unmet medical need, and we continue is our first approved respiratory biologic to work towards its approval.
It is a new anti-eosinophilic the number of successes far outweighed the monoclonal antibody which has demonstrated disappointments.
efficacy versus placebo in pivotal clinical trials and is the first respiratory biologic with an Delivering for patients eight-week maintenance dosing regimen.
By way of example, five significant launches from each of our three main therapy areas in 2017 showed how our rebuilt pipeline is starting to deliver our science to patients.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science provide more options for patients with lung cancer Imfinzi PACIFIC trial Lung cancer accounts for about one quarter of all cancer deaths, Sustainable delivery joined us in January with responsibility for more than any other cancer.
If our launches are delivering benefits to our International Region.
Iskra Reic joined in With the emergence of new targeted small molecules and immunotherapies, patients now, our pipeline is intended to April with responsibility for Europe and David significant progress is being made in ensure we deliver those benefits sustainably Fredrickson took over from Jamie Freedman the treatment of patients for whom the in the years to come.
During 2017, we made in charge of the Oncology Business Unit in disease has already spread through 18 NME or life-cycle management regulatory October.
I welcome the skills, experience the body metastatic.
But for patients with an earlier stage disease, known submissions in major markets and approved and diversity they bring to our discussions.
as locally advanced unresectable nine Phase III investment decisions.
These will All three were internal appointments and non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC, provide plenty of news in 2018 as we await speak to the strength of our pipeline of talent.
treatment options have been limited regulatory decisions and data read outs and clinical outcomes remain poor.
Looking further ahead, Looking ahead Aiming to provide solutions to those we approved 14 NME Phase II starts or 2017 saw two more of our medicines each unmet medical needs, we have initiated progressions in 2017 which will shape our exceed $1 billion in annual sales, five significant a broad immuno-oncology development future in the years to come.
launches and more potential uses found for programme in NSCLC, using the immune system to treat the cancer, existing medicines.
We remain committed to both in the locally advanced and Our future depends, however, not only on the our progressive dividend policy.
For patients with number of projects in our pipeline but the quality is working, propelled by a strong pipeline, locally advanced NSCLC, where the of our science.
In that regard, we are relentless good sales performance and continued tumour cannot be surgically removed, the current standard of care is in our search for the best science whether cost discipline.
concurrent chemoradiation therapy it is in our own labs or those of others with CRT, followed by a period of active whom we collaborate.
For example, we are 2017 represented a defining year for surveillance during which patients harnessing the power of genomics through AstraZeneca.
2018 will be equally important are monitored closely for progression.
Although most patients with locally global collaborations and scientific innovation as we seek to deliver the full potential of our advanced disease initially respond with the aim of transforming drug discovery medicines and ensure we deliver our science to CRT, the vast majority will advance and development.
Additionally, by focusing to patients around the world.
to metastatic disease within 12 months.
on quality rather than quantity, our IMED In the Phase III PACIFIC clinical trial, Imfinzi demonstrated a statistically Biotech Unit has seen a four-fold increase I am excited about AstraZenecas prospects significant and clinically meaningful in productivity, while costs have remained as a science-led innovator as I believe we will improvement in progression-free broadly unchanged.
deliver value for patients and shareholders in survival following CRT, and reduced the long term.
the rate of distant metastasis formation.
No other Phase III trial has demonstrated A great team these results in more than two decades.
Great science needs great people, and great people need great teams if they are going to deliver their best work.
I am therefore grateful to all my colleagues at AstraZeneca for their tremendous efforts in 2017.
These efforts made it a defining year and continued to transform the organisation.
I would also like to welcome three new members to the Senior Executive Pascal Soriot Team who joined during the year.
Leon Wang Chief Executive Officer AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Chief Executive Officers Review 7
