GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Rajiv Sharma I AM REPORTING ON THE COMPANY THIS YEAR Group Chief Executive FROM THE VANTAGE POINT OF OUR NEWLYACQUIRED STATUS AS A MEMBER OF THE FTSE 250 Highlights for 2017: Dear Shareholder Strategic progress in the year I am reporting on the company this year from the vantage point of our newly-acquired Acquisition of Patrick Yarn Mill status as a member of the FTSE 250.
This is a source of great pride for all of us at Coats Continued strong operational and one which affirms the legitimacy of our strategic aims and the ongoing achievement performance with over of all our employees.
$1bn in A&F sales Such recognition brings with it greater expectations of us as a company and new ambitions which we must fulfil in order to keep growing in our role as a global manufacturer.
This is summed up in the title to this report: delivering today, transforming for tomorrow.
It recognises the dual perspective we must maintain to remain relevant in todays fast-changing Priorities for 2018 market -- both s - atisfying the needs of our stakeholders and all the while anticipating and Implementing Connecting planning ahead for future demands.
for Growth programme Continuing integration So, while we are always focused on the businesss current performance, we are also putting in of recent acquisitions place the drivers for change.
Currently, that means a focus on four pillars: digital: innovation: Continuing focus on four simplification: and acquisition, all of which are an evolution of our existing strategy.
These pillars will help us deliver benefits appropriate to each of our stakeholders, allowing us to strategic growth pillars provide our 40,000 customers with products to meet their existing needs while developing unique products, services and digital solutions to cater to their changing requirements and, at the same time, maintaining a level of growth and efficiency that results in sustainable and profitable earnings for our shareholders.
It also allows us to offer our 19,000 employees work in an environment that is innovative, safe, ethical and personally fulfilling.
We recognise, too, the importance of our impact on the communities in which we operate and on our suppliers.
We recognise, too, the importance of our impact on the communities in which 2017 performance we operate and on our suppliers.
Coats delivered a strong performance in 2017.
Momentum in Industrial continued throughout the year in key Apparel and Footwear markets, where we continued to take share, and we saw double-digit growth in hi-tech end-uses in Performance Materials.
This was partly offset by North America Crafts where market conditions remained weak.
In an environment of rising input costs, we were able to grow our operating margins, through realising price increases, productivity and procurement gains, as well as tight control of our cost base.
Coats delivered a strong performance Industrial revenues grew at 6%, driven by share gains in Apparel and Footwear, and in 2017.
Momentum in Industrial underpinned by our continued focus on product innovation, digital solutions and our strong continued throughout the year in key Corporate Responsibility credentials.
This growth in Apparel and Footwear was achieved Apparel and Footwear markets, where despite mixed demand from clothing retailers.
In addition, Performance Materials revenues we continued to take share, and we saw grew by 12%, due to double-digit growth in hi-tech end uses, and the contribution from double-digit growth in hi-tech end-uses in Performance Materials.
Crafts saw revenues decline by 11% on a CER basis 10% decline on a reported basis, as the North American market conditions remained weak throughout the second half of the year.
Group adjusted operating profit increased 11% to $174 million on a CER basis 2016: $157 million and adjusted operating margins were up 70 bps to 11.5% 2016: 10.8%.
On a reported basis operating profit which is after exceptional and acquisition related items increased 9% to $167 million 2016: $153 million.
For more details see the Operating Review on pages on 27 to 30.
Strategic progress As our customers expectations change in line with current trends -- be that u - rbanisation, the non-negotiable need to do business in an increasingly responsible, sustainable and ethical manner, or the ever-increasing adoption of digital technology -- our resp - onses to those changes must also meet the aims of our strategic focus on profitable sales growth, increased Alternative Performance productivity and value delivery.
The four pillars digital, innovation, simplification and Measures see note 37 acquisition are the building blocks that will help us deliver those goals and, to that end, on page 143 we have made good progress during the year.
6 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED The four pillars digital, innovation, Digital.
To stay relevant, we must evolve in new directions, thinking beyond the stitch line to simplification and acquisition are the collaborate with internal and external stakeholders, to repurpose our products into new areas and building blocks that will help us deliver to find different and better ways of operating.
This year we created a data science team to extract those goals and, to that end, we have and analyse our data to gain insights to help us predict future behaviours and make sound, datamade good progress during the year.
We also launched two mobile apps: one for our Red Heart yarn, which improves the customers experience by allowing them to scan images and unlock additional content with access to interactive experiences and special offers : and one for resellers in India, giving them a fast and convenient way to check the status of orders without having to use the full version of eComm.
This is at the heart of everything we do and big, bold, game-changing ideas are crucial to our success.
Our Global Innovation Forum launched during the summer with a remit to foster a culture of innovation within the Group, sharing ideas and focusing on new avenues of growth and profitability for our customers.
In Apparel and Footwear we achieved an industry first when we launched Epic EcoVerde, a 100% recycled premium thread made from post-consumer waste.
Meanwhile, our Crafts team has been working closely with colleagues from Industrial to repurpose products for consumers.
This has resulted in our Eloflex yarn a thread for stretch fabric previously sold to Industrial customers only being marketed in branches of two major US department store chains.
In todays digital age, we need to be fleet of foot and capable of efficient delivery in the quickest possible timeframe.
To achieve this, we need lean and integrated processes and an organisational culture of speed and simplification.
During the year we created a single Digital and Technology structure and our project team worked with a range of countries to increase their compliance with our finance Target Operating Model, resulting in better controls, reduced risk and cost savings to the Group.
We also made significant progress with the ongoing integration of the activities of Latin America Crafts into the larger Industrial Division.
Our recent acquisitions, Gotex, FastReact and GSD have all proved successful, delivering on our strategy of acquiring companies with unique capabilities that can leverage off our network.
Our latest acquisition Patrick Yarn Mill is another case in point.
The North Carolina company, with 150 employees and a turnover of $42 million in 2017, specialises in cutresistant and flame-retardant yarns, and can manufacture yarns using recycled fibres under its earthspun trademark and machines powered by solar panels allowing it to offer products under its unique Spun by the Sun trademark.
Connecting for Growth To accelerate our transition from the industrial to the digital age, we have launched the To accelerate our transition from the industrial to the digital age, we have Connecting for Growth transformation programme, which will support our next phase of launched the Connecting for Growth growth.
We expect this programme to deliver increased productivity, with targeted net transformation programme, which will annualised operating cost savings of $15 million by 2020. drive our next phase of growth.
For more details see the Financial review on pages 31 to 36.
Looking ahead We enter 2018 in a strong position, with continued momentum in our Apparel and Footwear and hi-tech Performance Materials businesses.
Whilst market conditions in our North American Crafts business are expected to remain challenging, our new management team has commenced implementation of a refocused strategy.
We expect 2018 adjusted operating profits to benefit from the incremental full year contribution from the Patrick Yarn Mill acquisition, and the anticipated first year benefits from the Connecting for Growth programme.
As such, 2018 adjusted operating profits are expected to be slightly ahead of previous management expectations.
We will also continue to focus on cash flow generation in order to allow us to continue to reinvest in both organic and inorganic growth opportunities.
Our levers for change -- d - igital, innovation, simplification and acquisition -- a - nticipate the continuing challenges from digital technologies and online retailers, and give us the tools that will enable us to deliver value to customers, shareholders, employees and communities over the long term.
Rajiv Sharma, Group Chief Executive 6 March 2018 7
