STRATEGIC REPORT | GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Q&A We are exceptionally well placed to invest in urban infrastructure, creating jobs and providing housing for young and old alike.
Were ready and willing to invest more patient capital in startups and scale-ups.
Nigel Wilson Group CEO, Legal & General NIGEL WILSON Group Chief Executive Officer WATCH THE VIDEO legalandgeneralgroup.
com media-centre videos Nigel became Group Chief 2017 saw total net inflows of 40 billion So what does this mean for and international net inflows of future growth prospects?
Executive Officer in June 2012 33 billion, giving LGIM total assets of and has led the company, Our successful growth over the last 983 billion.
Legal & General Capitals five years has resulted from having a delivering over five years of investment programme in housing, simple but effective strategy.
He believes urban regeneration, clean energy and strategy is executed well by our three scale-ups made superb progress.
Legal & General is extremely core business areas: investing and well placed to take advantage annuities, investment management Why are you so optimistic about and insurance.
I am convinced that our from further growth.
six long-term global growth drivers will Ive always said that the UK is a continue to stimulate future growth.
great place to operate as a business.
Our ageing demographics growth Nigel, the group has had another Potential investment opportunities are driver has made us a market leader great year.
What do you think are simply outstanding.
London will always in pensions fide-risking, auto-enrolled the highlights?
be a leading global centre for financial pensions and lifetime mortgages.
services, we have skilled workforces Welfare reform has inspired us to Profit before tax increased by 32% and world-leading universities and create success through helping people to 2.1 billion, with a return on equity research institutions.
Cities like build personal financial resilience, both of 25.6%.
We delivered some excellent Manchester, Leeds, Cardiff and in insurance and retirement planning performances in our three biggest Newcastle can also become world products.
The Board is aware of risks to businesses, with less strong results in class with the right investment.
We are the UK economy as Brexit takes place, our two insurance businesses.
Legal & exceptionally well placed to invest in but we remain confident that our General Retirement had total sales urban infrastructure, which will create growth strategy can enable us be of 6.4 billion, with great successes jobs and provide housing for young and a winner.
not only in the UK and US institutional old alike.
Were ready and willing to pension risk transfer markets, but invest more patient capital in start-ups Youre investing capital in also in individual annuities and and scale-ups.
We have now put 14.4 billion in direct investments, such as urban regeneration, housing, clean energy and SME finance.
Building new homes has been a priority for me, because lack of supply has driven up house prices and contributed to generational unfairness and inequality.
This gives us an 6 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Our GI business has launched its Tattenhall later innovative SmartQuote, where only living homes 40m five questions need to be answered online.
Our lifetime mortgage business goes from strength to strength, using online-only applications through our fully responsive website.
Finally, how are you ensuring that you have the right people to We have now make it all happen?
put 14.4bn in Cardiff London Im hugely proud of our Regeneration Gateway Port direct investments 400m 400m commitment to build a diverse workforce, where our 50 50 for 2020 target means that we want 50% of our senior management positions to be filled by women.
In 2017 we recruited Mayflower Headingley or promoted five women into the most Student Plaza Stadium 93m 35m senior management positions.
This included Laura Mason, who is now CEO of our biggest and most successful business, LGR Institutional and our new Group HR Director, Emma Hardaker-Jones.
At the same time positive action means that management positions are filled by opportunity to create long-term assets.
We have established LGIMs regional talented and committed people, We are involved in build to sell and office in Tokyo to complement our regardless of their gender, disability, build to rent, with major new schemes capabilities in Hong Kong, and LGIMs ethnicity, age or sexual orientation.
announced in Birmingham, Leeds, recently-announced entry into the Salford, Crowthorne, Wokingham, European ETF market will provide Bristol and Bath.
Job creation is also access to one of the fastest growing vital and in 2017 we also announced segments in asset management.
new projects to regenerate Britain Are you seeing progress in such as our science parks in Newcastle transforming your digital and Oxford, our first UK offshore wind operations?
investment and our investments in UK rail infrastructure.
In 2017 we made huge progress in improving our digital capabilities.
Are you still planning to expand We have embedded digital processes your US and international in every one of our businesses.
Connect, a digital client portal for Our global growth drivers, especially institutional clients which is hosted ageing populations, are having a big in the cloud, is now used by more than effect on US pensions schemes too, 2,500 of our clients, consultants SLATE YARD, SALFORD where there are still $3.7 trillion of DB and administrators.
In June 2017, the first scheme liabilities and where we have residents moved into written over $1.6 billion of risk transfer Salfords build to business since 2015.
record inflows of 33 billion in 2017 into LGIMs international business, where we saw total AUM increase by 28.5% to 228 billion.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Q&A LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 7 STRATEGIC REPORT Driv ers o f s t r a te gy Our long-term strategy is driven by six global growth drivers Growth drivers Ageing demographics Globalisation Creating real assets Welfare reform Technological innovation Todays capital Ageing populations mean that of asset markets Theres an urgent need to Many families that rely on state Consumers increasingly expect In recent years, equity and pension savings need to last According to PwC, global invest in infrastructure and benefits partially or completely, digital ways to organise their investment capital have been longer, affecting individuals and assets exceed $80 trillion.
Many UK struggle to survive financially finances.
In the low-cost world, in short supply.
The UK needs companies alike.
Companies many other UK asset managers cities outside London need following death, disability or technological solutions can investment in modern, digital have seen an increasing need we need to step up to take investment to match global long-term sickness.
People need mean the difference between start-up businesses to create to restructure their pension advantage of the potential of competitors.
At the same time help to save more for retirement success and failure.
jobs and stimulate economic schemes to meet rising costs.
expanding global markets in the UK continues to experience and to build financial growth.
This can also help North America, Asia Pacific a serious housing shortage.
455bn $47.4tn 52% 73% 56% 1.8% Projected UK DC pension scheme AUM held by North American asset Reduction in house building UK adults who have no life Consumers who say that the quality Change in UK productivity assets in 2030 management companies completions in the 40 years insurance cover of a general insurers online service output per hour Q3 2007 to Q3 2017 Source: Pensions Policy Institute Source: Willis Towers Watson: 2016 between 197677 to 210617 Source: Mintel, June 2017 affects their choice of provider Source: ONS Source: DCLG Table 209 Source: Mintel, December 2017 8 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT EXTERNAL INFLUENCES ON OUR BUSINESS Brexit Our customer base is very largely in Growth drivers the UK, US and Asia, which reduces our exposure to any negative trading effects of Brexit: however, we are establishing businesses in Dublin to support LGIMs European institutional investment clients.
Geopolitical environment 2017 saw a number of shifts in the political landscape, both globally and in the UK.
We believe our strategy based upon global growth drivers is relevant across the political spectrum and will remain resilient to geopolitical events.
However, we will continue to monitor events closely.
Economic outlook Ageing demographics Globalisation Creating real assets Welfare reform Technological innovation Todays capital The global economic outlook is Ageing populations mean that of asset markets Theres an urgent need to Many families that rely on state Consumers increasingly expect In recent years, equity and looking increasingly positive, with central banks beginning to unwind pension savings need to last According to PwC, global invest in infrastructure and benefits partially or completely, digital ways to organise their investment capital have been stimuli and tighten monetary policies.
longer, affecting individuals and assets exceed $80 trillion.
The UK needs The speed of rate normalisation has companies alike.
Companies many other UK asset managers cities outside London need following death, disability or technological solutions can investment in modern, digital become a focus of financial markets.
We are cognisant of risks associated have seen an increasing need we need to step up to take investment to match global long-term sickness.
People need mean the difference between start-up businesses to create with equity and credit market volatility to restructure their pension advantage of the potential of competitors.
jobs and stimulate economic and our investment strategy is to schemes to meet rising costs.
This can also help hold a combination of traded and direct investments.
North America, Asia Pacific a serious housing shortage.
455bn $47.4tn 52% 73% 56% 1.8% Projected UK DC pension scheme AUM held by North American asset Reduction in house building UK adults who have no life Consumers who say that the quality Change in UK productivity assets in 2030 management companies completions in the 40 years insurance cover of a general insurers online service output per hour Q3 2007 to Q3 2017 Source: Pensions Policy Institute Source: Willis Towers Watson: 2016 between 197677 to 210617 Source: Mintel, June 2017 affects their choice of provider Source: ONS Source: DCLG Table 209 Source: Mintel, December 2017 OUR DRIVERS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 9
