Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We saw a particularly lively political debate Importantly, this revised strategy is built on about energy pricing during the year.
the core strengths of our business: our WE SAVED OUR CUSTOMERS As true consumer champions, we leading brands, product diversification and I was attracted to encourage debate about the benefits of breadth of provider relationships, our Moneysupermarket by its comparison and switching, and remain modern technology platform and, of confident in our ability to help households course, our customers looking to save on OVER 2BN IN 2017 inspirational purpose To help make significant savings on their energy their bills across multiple products and households save money.
However, in this political environment categories.
I believe these combining we found that some providers were less factors will be even more differentiating keen to offer collective switches to new and important for us in the future.
Even so, our Cheap Energy As the most diversified price comparison business we Club now monitors over three million Summary take great pride in our ability to help people with their households for better energy tariffs, Innovation is integral to the achievement immediately alerting them when savings household bills and with fantastic brands and a new and success of Moneysupermarket.
To can be made through the Groups quick deliver our strategy we will be re-energising technology platform, we are well positioned to help and simple switching process.
that spirit of innovation in price more people save even more money in the future.
comparison, and in the process creating TravelSupermarket roles for new talent and opportunities for TravelSupermarkets turnaround continued colleagues across the Group.
throughout the year, with revenue of 23.3m, 4% higher than 2016.
We continue As I approach my first anniversary in the to work on improving the proposition for business, and as we move into our new both customers and providers.
Travel London head office building, I believe we ur business serves both MoneySuperMarket remains a very competitive market and have developed a clear strategic direction I was attracted to Moneysupermarket by our customers and our Overview The MoneySuperMarket business delivered we remain focused on the true value in dynamic, growing markets, and I am as providers, importantly its inspirational purpose To help revenue in 2017 of 294.5m, up 3% I am pleased to report that in 2017 we TravelSupermarket brings to its customers, excited about the opportunities as I was households save money, and I am creating value for both helped more households save more compared to 2016.
Insurance performed that of price comparison, particularly on my first day.
delighted to be able to confirm this sides of our marketplace.
strongly with our marketing and pricing money than ever before: an estimated in packaged holidays and associated OIts pleasing that the CMAs motivation holds strong within the Group.
2.0bn for nearly eight million families.
initiatives growing share in a buoyant car rental.
We take great pride in our ability to help recent market study of the comparison In doing so we grew revenue by 4% and market.
During 2017 we continued to Mark Lewis industry confirmed the customer people manage their household bills.
enhance our offer and transformed our grew adjusted operating profit by 6% Chief Executive Officer Strategy satisfaction rating for our services at to 113.9m.
customer proposition in life insurance to 21 February 2018 The purpose of the Group, to help As the most diversified price comparison over 90%.
enable customers to complete their households save money on their bills, business, with fantastic brands and a 2017 was a year of transition and solid applications on our website.
is highly compelling but on joining the new technology platform, we are There will be changes in our regulatory delivery for the business so it is notable business it was important to me that environment during 2018 and we have uniquely positioned to help more people The low interest rate environment set the that we are also finding new ways to help we should revisit and challenge our save even more money.
developed plans for our operations to take customers save money.
For the first time context for our Money category.
account of these, including PSD2 Open card switching remained positive with in 2017, the majority of interactions with Banking and GDPR.
The opportunity to lead such a our customers came via a mobile device strong balance transfer products on offer.
As a result, we have refined our strategy successful business and fulfil such a and this trend continues.
Our markets Bank account and savings switching was and initiatives and are very excited to have No matter where the lively political debate compelling purpose is a true privilege.
initially subdued, but picked up pace remain healthy, dynamic and growing identified clear opportunities to continue to I have inherited a strong team and with around energy pricing lands in the months and we are committed to leading the way towards the year end as banks once again grow our business.
our revised set of strategic priorities I to come, we remain confident there will still saw benefits from attracting new in price comparison through innovation.
be significant consumer savings to be made believe we are set for an exciting new customers and deposits.
With the major replatforming project phase in our growth story.
finished, we can now move into a phase of Home Services had a mixed year with a increased customer experience innovation.
2017 marked the successful completion of significant slow down in energy collective We are calling this the Reinvent strategy our replatforming project and all our major switches compared to the peak of 2016, but and it commits us to leading price Estimated savings made by channels are now running on the new through improving the online customer comparison into its next chapter.
customers bn technology platform, fusion.
The experience we were able to enhance our completion of this significant multi-year core energy switching proposition to drive a Replatforming has positioned us to investment gives us the foundation on recovery in our core performance during reaccelerate and consolidate our core which we can build a truly enhanced the second half.
business growth through optimising the 2.0bn customer experience.
10% MoneySavingExpert The stage is set for us to drive forwards MoneySavingExpert had a good year, But in addition, we are excited about with innovation.
We have a successful, growing revenue by 13% to 41.5m despite opportunities it affords us to add new differentiated, well diversified price a significant reduction in energy collective growth to the market by developing new Active users comparison business with highly trusted switch activity.
services and propositions, including and popular brands.
Our new technology building price comparison in new products platform enables us to harness more of the More users signed up to receive the and categories, to help our customers save latent potential of that core business, more MoneySavingExpert weekly tip email, taking 13.2m even more.
It also gives us the means to the total to almost 13 million.
This is a huge develop and extend our markets in new endorsement of the great work the editorial ways, making it possible for us to help team do at MoneySavingExpert which was more households save even more money Read more about our new KPIs the highest rated brand for advocacy in Mark Lewis onpage11 in future.
Chief Executive Officer Read more about the performance of our brands frompage18 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
