Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Investment performance wasstrong and we are pleased to have outperformed peers by 1.9% on average across our strategies The strong outperformance coupled with positive momentum in markets during 2017 led to an investment performance related increase in FUM of $10.7 billion.
Strong client demand for Emerging Market debt, FRM managed accounts and quant strategies led to net inflows of $12.8 billion for the year, albeit the flows were typically lower margin.
The combination of these two factors as well as an FX tailwind and the acquisition of Aalto led to a 35% increase in funds under management to $109.1 billion.
The growth was broad based, with our alternative and long only strategies, quant and discretionary approaches, and all of our investment engines growing their funds under management during the year.
Overview 2017 marked a year of During the year we made significant progress Adjusted profit before tax increased to in respect of our key strategic objectives excellent operating and $384 million, compared to $205 million in which has laid firm foundations for the longer 2016, principally due to a strong rebound in term growth of the business.
Investment financial performance performance fees.
We are particularly pleased performance was strong and we are pleased to to see this rebound in fees in a year which was for Man have outperformed peers by 1.9% on average not a favourable environment for traditional across our strategies.
This performance has trend following strategies.
This highlights the been recognised by our clients with record Luke Ellis benefit of the diversified set of performance inflows, but more importantly we are developing Chief Executive Officer fee earning strategies both within Man AHL better and deeper relationships with the worlds and across the Group.
Adjusted management largest and most sophisticated asset owners.
fee profit before tax was up 14%, growing This resulted in us adding a significant number at a steadier pace than the increase in FUM of new relationships with strategically important as our revenue margin compressed due to asset owners during the year.
We continue to strong asset growth in lower margin strategies.
add further innovative investment capabilities, Statutory profit before tax was $272 million, for instance in Alternative Risk Premia and compared to a loss of $272 million in 2016 when Private Markets, and to invest in research and we had the impairment of Man GLG and Man innovation, whether that be machine learning FRMs goodwill and intangibles.
Our business techniques across our quant strategies or new continues to be strongly cash generative with discretionary teams in GLG.
From a regulatory adjusted profit after tax a good proxy for perspective an enormous amount of hard work operating cash flow of $337 million in 2017. went into ensuring we were ready to meet all MiFID II obligations at the start of 2018 with the Performance whole firm working together to achieve this.
Market overview 2017 was characterised by a bull market for risk assets.
US equities ended the year at record highs, spurred by the positive sentiment from the passage of US tax reforms.
The TOPIX was up 22% and despite the UK election result and the uncertainty surrounding Brexit, the FTSE 100 ended the year up 12%.
Emerging markets trends were also positive with the MSCI emerging markets index up 37% for the year.
Fixed income markets had a volatile year selling off substantially during the last week of June only to recover in the second half of the year with world bonds and corporate bonds ending the year up 2% and 12% respectively.
Traditional energy markets such as oil and natural gas saw numerous peaks and troughs but oil prices rallied towards the end of the year.
10 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Alternatives Most of Mans discretionary long only strategies We have expanded the focus of our research Against this backdrop returns in many trend had good absolute and relative performance in across the firm in machine learning and data following strategies were limited, with the 2017.
However the largest individual strategy, analytics, to provide growth opportunities from Barclays BTOP ending the year down 0.6%.
Man Japan CoreAlpha with its strong value approach utilising new research techniques and forms of AHLs traditional trend following programmes, underperformed the TOPIX by 5.5%, as value data.
This initiative continues to develop, and a AHL alpha and AHL diversified fared noticeably underperformed as a style in Japan, which number of new machine learning-based signals better finishing the year up 5.3% and 5.0% resulted in Man GLGs long only strategies have been added to several of our quant respectively.
AHL evolution, our trend following underperforming their benchmarks by 2.5% programmes at Man AHL and Man Numeric this strategy in non-traditional markets, continued on an asset weighted basis.
Man GLG added a machine learning team its very strong track record and ended the year European Equity strategy outperformed its during the year in order to use this already well up 17.9%.
AHL dimension, with its allocation reference index by 1.2% and the UK known cutting edge research from quant and to a range of Man AHLs strategies, ended the Undervalued Assets strategy outperformed introduce it into its discretionary offerings.
In contrast to the strong overall its benchmark by 17.2%.
believe technology allows discretionary fund performance of Numeric, its alternative strategies management to materially improve individual had weaker performance with the largest market Progress against strategic priorities investment decisions, the implementation of neutral strategy down 1.7% for the year.
Innovative investment strategies those ideas and the risk management of overall Research and innovation is a key priority portfolios.
Man is particularly well positioned to Towards the end of 2016 we took steps to across our business.
Markets do not stand bring the benefits of technology to bear on improve the consistency of discretionary still: we need to keep innovating to perform discretionary investment processes.
alternatives performance through the for our clients and we invest a huge amount appointment of a GLG CIO, a restructure of the of time and energy in research.
Given our Another focus during 2017 was on trading and risk team and efforts to bring best practices in focus on maintaining outperformance, we execution.
We have appointed a director of risk management and technology to bear from monitor capacity across our strategies and trading to manage this effort across Man, across the Group.
Good progress has been we will regularly have various products bringing together traders, trading technologists made with strong performance generated in that hit their capacity and we soft close to and researchers.
We believe this initiative will 2017 and Man GLGs Alternative Strategies ensure we maintain client returns.
However, deliver superior execution results for all of our Dollar Weighted Composite delivering returns of the constant research and innovation effort investment engines to the benefit of our clients 8.3%, versus the HFRX return of 6.0%.
Credit across the firm means we will also have and increasing our capacity.
In many asset strategies followed up a strong 2016 with new strategies we have developed to help classes, electronic market makers are another year of excellent performance, and Man clients address their investment needs.
increasingly replacing traditional brokers as the GLGs equity strategies also had a strong year principal source of liquidity and as a result a with the firms flagship European Long-Short globally coordinated central execution team We added some exciting strategy generating returns of 6.5% in 2017, will allow us to better adapt to todays market outperforming the HFRX Equity Market Neutral structures.
We have made significant efforts this new capabilities during Hedge Index and many direct competitors.
year to reduce trading costs which translates 2017 including Risk Premia directly into improved performance for clients.
Across our total return strategies, Alternative and Private Markets Risk Premia, which combines liquid strategies We added a new private markets capability from Man AHL and Man Numeric, continued its through the acquisition of Aalto Invest in Man Alternative Risk Premia is a good example strong performance since launch, ending up January 2017, with Man Global Private Markets of the collective expertise across the firm 10.1% for the year.
The Emerging Market debt Man GPM launched at the same time.
helping to solve problems for our clients.
Man total return strategy which launched in 2016 Within Man GPM, we have funded several FRMs own portfolio construction process had ended the year up 2.3%, underperforming its new mandates within our global real estate made clear the benefit of a liquid, cash efficient competitors due to its bearish positioning.
debt and US residential equity strategies as strategy uncorrelated to traditional assets, as well as launched a new US direct lending part of an overall alternatives portfolio.
They Man FRMs strategies also had strong fund.
We are encouraged by the additional worked with Man AHL and Man Numeric to investment performance throughout the commitments from longstanding clients and develop a multi-premia, multi-strategy, multiyear.
FRM Diversified II was up 6.2% and the initial interest shown by our clients for asset approach allocating across four broad outperformed the HFRI Fund of Funds this new asset class within Man.
In line with alternative risk factors.
These systematic trading Conservative Index by 2.3%.
our overall strategy, we continue to look at strategies have multi-level risk management other possible acquisitions, including in the and leverage Mans entire range of investment Long only private markets space to complement Aalto, expertise.
Man FRM then worked with Sales Man Numeric had another strong year continuing to ensure we remain disciplined and Product Structuring to provide a suite generating overall net asset weighted on price, structure and cultural fit.
of flexible solutions to meet individual client 3 outperformance versus benchmark of 2.1%.
The strategy is up 20.9% since 1 Performance figures shown net of representative Positive alpha generation in international inception in 2015: we started marketing to management and performance fees.
Past performance is strategies including Emerging Markets Core and clients around the world during the year and are not indicative of future performance.
Global Core was partially offset by weaker alpha seeing strong interest with $4.0 billion of assets 2 Where a strategy has a formal benchmark, performance is in US stocks resulting in negative performance compared to this.
Where no formal benchmark has been raised to date and a decent sales pipeline.
set, benchmark should be taken to refer to a relative for US strategies including Small Cap Core and index.
Relative performance is provided for illustrative Large Cap Core.
purposes to provide market information and is not meant to be an accurate comparison.
The strategy is managed significantly differently than the benchmark or index.
3 Numerics net asset weighted alpha for the year to 31 December 2017 is calculated using the asset weighted average of the performance relative to the benchmark for all strategy composites available net of the highest management fees and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 11 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED From a geographical perspective, whilst People We are developing better EMEA continues to be our biggest market, the When I took over as CEO in 2016 I created a and deeper relationships business is now better balanced as we have Senior Management Executive Committee seen strong growth in the US market over the comprising: Jonathan Sorrell, who is the with the worlds largest and last five years.
Gross sales from the Americas President of the Group and responsible for our accounted for 32% of the total sales in 2017 Sales and Marketing teams, Man GPM and Man most sophisticated asset compared to 29% in 2016.
At 31 December FRM: Sandy Rattray, who is the Chief Investment owners, adding a significant 2017, 27% of FUM was from clients domiciled Officer for the Group and responsible for Man in the Americas compared to 8% in 2012.
AHL, Man Numeric and Man GLG: Robyn number of new strategic Gross sales from the Americas have grown Grew, our Chief Administrative Officer who is relationships during the year from $1.1 billion in 2012 to $10.8 billion in 2017. responsible for Man Groups infrastructure, operations, technology, compliance, legal, Efficient and effective operations human resources and facilities functions: and Strong client relationships We continually assess our cost base across Mark Jones, our Chief Financial Officer, who 2017 saw excellent engagement with our the firm in comparison to our revenue earning is responsible for Finance, Investor Relations, existing and targeted clients across the globe, capabilities to ensure we are running the Internal Audit and Risk for the Group.
The as reflected in record net inflows for the year business as efficiently as possible while team have provided huge support throughout of $12.8 billion.
We continued to make good investing for growth.
We completed the this year and I would like to thank them, and progress in building long term relationships restructuring initiatives that were started in 2016 more importantly everyone within Man for their with clients and during the year we added a with the costs of the restructuring in line with contribution to the significant operating and significant number of new relationships with expectations.
From a regulatory perspective the financial progress we have made during 2017. strategically important asset allocators and whole firm worked together to ensure we were distributors.
Seeing many of our key targeted ready to meet all MiFID II obligations at the start Outlook clients make their first investments with Man, of 2018.
The ongoing costs associated with In common with others, the recent moves and our existing clients entrusting us with MiFID II will add around $10-15 million to our in markets have impacted our investment further allocations is one of the best signs of cost base from 2018 onwards.
performance in some areas, particularly for the progress we have made and the strength our momentum strategies.
However, looking of our business today.
The trend of clients In November we moved all our London forward Man is well positioned, with strong investing across the firm is also continuing with teams to the same location in the City fundamentals, investment in innovative a number of existing clients investing in new of London.
We are already seeing the strategies and a continuing pipeline of interest products in 2017.
73% of FUM is now sourced significant advantages this generates for from clients.
As ever, we remain focused on from clients investing in two products or more the Group and our clients, with enhanced delivering long term investment performance and 56% of FUM from clients investing in opportunities to collaborate and to further and the highest quality service to our clients.
Furthermore, 59% of leverage our collective investment expertise.
FUM is sourced from clients investing across Luke Ellis more than one of our investment engines.
Our balance sheet remains strong and liquid, Chief Executive Officer and we continue to support the growth There has also been a significant amount of of new products through our seed capital work done to strengthen our sales organisation programme.
We continually assess whether which has translated into an improvement in seeding positions support the business the effectiveness of the function.
The focus and a large position in a US distressed of the team has been on attracting and credit strategy has been redeemed as a developing talent, targeting resources and result of a lack of investor subscriptions.
building the strongest client relationships possible.
2017 saw a 55% increase in gross We completed our previously announced $100 sales to $33.7 billion driven by strong flows into million buyback in September and announced FRM managed accounts, Mans Alternative a further $100 million buyback in October.
Our Risk Premia offering, and Emerging Market surplus capital at 31 December 2017 was $256 Debt strategies in particular.
The proforma surplus capital including previously it is important to note that the the impact of second half profits, the proposed margins on these sales were lower than the final dividend and receipt of year end average for the Group.
Redemptions of $20.9 performance fees and proceeds from the billion were across a range of strategies and redemption from the US distressed credit in line with the redemption rate in 2016. strategy is $460 million.
12 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements PROGRESS AGAINST OUR STRATEGY In 2017, we have made significant progress against our strategic priorities.
During 2018 we will continue to focus on research and innovation and build on new and existing client relationships, whilst running the business efficiently and investing for growth.
Innovative investment strategies Strong client relationships How we performed in 2017 How we performed in 2017 GLG added a machine learning team during the year and are using Continued growth in clients investing across our products, with quant techniques in their discretionary management processes.
73% of FUM from clients invested in two or more products and 56% Improvement in performance at GLG with asset weighted from clients invested in four or more products performance for GLG alternatives of 8.3% in 2017 Continued growth in the US with $4.6 billion of net inflows from A number of machine learning-based signals added to several clients in the Americas in 2017, up from $2.2 billion in 2016 of our quant programmes at Man AHL and Man Numeric during Added a significant number of new relationships with strategically the year important asset owners during the year Seven new strategies developed at Numeric Started marketing Alternative Risk Premia strategies which has raised $4.0 billion since launch Objectives for 2018 Objectives for 2018 Maintain the consistency of performance within Man GLG Attract and develop talent in sales, focusing on hiring required Focus on the deployment of machine learning techniques to aid additional people and providing relevant training and development investment decision making across the Group across all levels Generate incremental high value add capacity in AHL Target resources effectively, balancing near-term sales and asset Develop new strategies particularly through collaboration between retention, with the need to build the business longer-term from a the capabilities of Man AHL, Man FRM, Man GLG and Man product and client perspective Numeric to develop innovative products Broaden and deepen existing client relationships and continue to Continue the work started in 2017 on reducing execution and develop relationships with key target clients trading costs Efficient and effective operations Returns to shareholders How we performed in 2017 How we performed in 2017 Completed restructuring plan implemented in 2016 to reduce Completed $100 million buyback in September 2017 and our fixed cost base by $20 million.
2017 fixed cash costs down 4% announced a further $100 million buyback in October 2017 to $321 million $181 million of adjusted performance fee profits generated in 2017 Continued investment in technology with a new Client Relationship Identified and reviewed around 100 potential acquisition management system implemented in 2017 and a new Finance and opportunities during the year HR system planned for implementation in 2018 Objectives for 2018 Objectives for 2018 Continued focus on our cost base to ensure we run the business Maintain focus on balance sheet efficiency and active management efficiently whilst addressing all risks and opportunities of capital Selective investment in certain areas of the Group, particularly in Generate additional surplus capital through performance fee profits quant and technology to ensure we remain at the forefront of our Assess capital returns alongside any potential acquisition industry opportunities to ensure the best risk adjusted investment of capital Continue to actively foster a diverse and inclusive culture across the business through the DRIVE programme and over broader D&I agenda Continuously review processes around MIFID II to ensure we are being as efficient as possible 1 Performance figures shown net of representative management and performance fees.
Past performance is not indicative of future performance.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 13
