CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Where more happens for our stakeholders Our product is in high demand by retailers and shoppers.
In 2017, we let more space by value than in any other year in Hammersons 75-year history.
This gives me confidence that we are a beneficiary of the structural changes occurring in retail.
Our retail partners tell us that they want more space in highfootfall locations alongside other exciting brands to deliver stores that support a multichannel strategy.
Proportionally consolidated portfolio, excluding premium outlets.
It is clear our retail portfolio is delivering wide-reaching value for all our different stakeholders.
Our retail partners confirm to us that their stores in our centres also contribute to growing their sales outside the store, via online platforms or as a result of increased brand awareness.
This year we conducted research into the True Value of Retail.
The findings highlight that the value of our retail venues is not just commercial, and quantified the wider value our shopping centres have to the local economy, employment and connected communities.
As we enjoyed the celebrations of our 75th anniversary I was also reminded how Hammersons values draw together a wide network of employees, alumni and operating partners.
Even as retailers face increased cost pressures and softer instore sales, they are prioritising space in our Shopping centres, Retail parks and Premium outlets.
David Atkins, Chief Executive 8 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In 2017 we let more space by value than in any other year in Shareholders Hammersons history, a clear sign that we are benefiting from We have delivered another year of attractive earnings and the structural changes occurring in retail.
dividend per share growth for shareholders.
We have achieved This year has undoubtedly been a tougher one for retailers and this by having not just the right properties, but also the right restaurants, particularly in the UK where consumer incomes people and retail innovation.
have been squeezed, and currency effects and inflation have The underlying operational performance of the business was increased cost pressures.
Whilst we have seen some mid-market good this year.
The volume of new leasing was up and vacancy restaurants announce closures and poor performance in the down across all segments.
We missed our target of 2% womens high-street fashion sector, other categories such as LFL NRI growth 1.7%, inc Ireland as a result of weaker grab n go food, sport and aspirational fashion have performed performance in UK Retail Parks which we expect to improve well.
The table below highlights the categories and brands which this year.
We continue to increase our income efficiency, have been most active in taking space this year.
reducing our cost:income ratio and also our cost of debt.
Retailers acknowledge the greater productivity of our Therefore, I expect to continue our track record level of locations and also that online sales are serviced through their dividend growth going forward.
As a result, instore sales is becoming a less appropriate metric to track leasing demand.
Chart 3 Total dividend per share growth pence We maintain a constant dialogue with our retail and catering tenants to ensure we understand their needs.
An important aspect of this is the ability to relocate and right-size tenants in our properties.
By taking back space CAGR 7.4% from underperforming retailers or restaurants and relocating 25.5 24.0 or upsizing successful ones we support our tenants, deliver 22.3 the most popular categories and brands for customers and 20.4 also drive rental growth.
19.1 17.7 16.6 Chart 4 Current demand in leasing Ath-leisure sports fashion and well-being 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Exceptional dining experiences The EPRA net asset value per share grew by 5.0% and the Groups total property return was 6.8%.
We continue to recycle capital from lower performing assets to enhance Personal luxuries our growth.
The total volume of retail property transactions in the wider market was lower this year and the demand for secondary assets is becoming tougher.
However, there are still buyers for high-quality retail properties across Europe.
We delivered our 400m disposal target this year and are Differentiated branded apparel advancing planned disposals for 2018.
Retailers Our business strategy is aligned with that of our retailers.
Homeware brands We know from our regular discussions with them that they want space in high-footfall locations alongside other exciting brands and leisure space, in growing catchments across Europe.
Therefore, retailers are prioritising space in our Consumer brands communicating direct to consumers Shopping centres, Retail parks and Premium outlets because they are more productive than other locations.
For information on our Financial Performance, see pages 53 to 60.
COM 9 Chief Executives review continued Shoppers Retail Specialism: Style Seeker We ensure that our retail venues continue to attract and delight shoppers by combining exciting events with outstanding Another industry first during 2017 was the launch of Style services, accessible locations and seamless digital capabilities.
Using leading edge artificial intelligence, Style Seeker delivers an online product search tool within our Footfall at our centres in the UK increased by 0.4% and by retail environments.
This allows customers to snap clothing 1.6% in France, outperforming the national benchmarks, they have seen on friends, on-screen, or in magazines.
The demonstrating shoppers are drawn to our destinations over search feature then suggests matches within Hammersons other retail venues.
Our spectrum of events this year was retail destinations based on shape, colour and pattern.
even more diverse and imaginative including a new iconic theatre at Italie Deux, Paris, communal screens showing Encouraging shoppers to experiment with new brands and the Wimbledon tennis tournament, a spectacular ice rink, retailers, we have seen Style Seeker inspire product a visually stunning garden at Dundrum Town Centre, purchases and simplify shopping journeys.
Dublin, and summer beaches at Brent Cross, London and A significant number of brands have signed up, including The Oracle, Reading.
Harvey Nichols, Selfridges, John Lewis, Reiss and Anthropologie.
Consumer engagement has been equally impressive, with over 360,000 products listed and more than 150,000 product images delivered to customers since launch.
Style Seeker is fully integrated into the Plus app in all our UK centres and we intend to expand its presence to France and Ireland during 2018 as well as explore additional product categories.
We understand that technology is evolving quickly, so we benefit from partnering with third parties holding specialised digital skillsets.
A highlight for us this year was the launch of our app, Style Seeker see case study box opposite.
It is important that shoppers experience a consistent level of service at our centres.
We have started to hallmark this experience and introduce our brand in a customer-facing environment.
For information on our Product Experience Framework see pages 20 to 27.
10 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW People Partners Success as a retail property specialist is about people and Our partnerships and relationships make us a stronger insight, not just our assets.
We are building teams to support business and give us a competitive edge.
our delivery of the best retail space.
We have enhanced our As the retail property backdrop evolves rapidly, skilled talent pool this year with new skills, particularly in the areas operators become more valuable.
Through our international of speciality leasing, digital and commercialisation.
joint ventures we already operate around 8 billion of assets As the business grows, I believe it is important to maintain a on behalf of our JV partners and will continue to strengthen culture of openness and close collaboration.
We relaunched these partnerships further.
our internal communications platform to facilitate better interaction between our offices in London, Dublin, Reading and Paris and our shopping centres.
Colleagues can more easily share insights, stimulate conversations and discuss news flow relevant to the business.
In our employee survey we again achieved a supportive result with over 75% of participants stating Hammerson is a great place to work.
We will review the feedback from the survey to inform our priorities for the coming year.
2017 marked Hammersons 75th anniversary, and for me it was a personal highlight of the year to be able to bring together the wider Hammerson family to celebrate.
I was reminded how the Our relationship with luxury outlet operator Value Retail has values of ambition, collaboration, respect and responsibility again enabled us to increase our shareholding in the group continue to connect our current employees, alumni and partners.
and also acquire more outlets in VIA Outlets and hence increase our exposure to this fast-growth European market.
Over 80% of staff participated in Our network of partnerships allows us to source global our employee survey and over investors and provides us with access to a depth of capital 75% stated that Hammerson is a markets supporting our refinancing of over 1.2 billion this year.
Outlook Communities 2018 will be a transformational year for the business with the completion of our proposed acquisition of intu as well as moving Our retail destinations sit at the heart of the communities forward with key developments at Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy: Italie Deux, they serve, as we demonstrated in our True Value of Retail Paris: and Brent Cross and Croydon, London, which represent the report this year.
They create jobs, trigger further investment, latest era of retail and leisure destinations.
establish new destinations, increase visitor numbers and grow local spending.
Our regional destinations across Europe We are focused on adapting our business to match consumer trends support approximately 40,000 jobs, the vast majority of which and will continue to deliver the best retail space in the strongest are awarded to local people, and have generated c. 2.5 billion consumer markets.
The combination of our high-quality portfolio and of inward investment.
skilled team ensures we can manage any consumer weakness in the UK and benefit from long-term retail market trends.
A focus on sustainability continues to underpin everything we do as a business.
This year I was proud to set out our commitment to become Net Positive for carbon, resource-use, water and social-economic impacts by 2030, becoming David Atkins the first real estate company globally to commit to this ambitious target.
Chief Executive For information on our people and communities see pages 41 to 47.
For information on our True Value of Retail report and Net Positive see our website.
COM 11 David Atkins reflects on the intu acquisition The acquisition will create a 21 billion pan-European portfolio of high-quality retail and leisure What is the destinations, with enhanced exposure to higher-growth markets which will benefit from evolving rationale for the consumer trends.
It will unlock growth opportunities by bringing together Hammersons and intus acquisition?
leading assets, which have strong fundamentals, under a superior combined operating platform.
In line with our strategy to focus on growing consumer markets, the acquisition will increase ownership of high-quality destination shopping centres including: intu Trafford Centre, Manchester: intu Lakeside, Essex: and intu Metrocentre, Gateshead and Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza, Spain.
With the rapidly evolving role of retail destinations, this is the right time to pursue this acquisition.
Together, we will be better positioned to invest meaningful resources into enhancing and differentiating our retail and leisure destinations through events, customer services and improved digital capabilities.
Following the acquisition, our portfolio growth prospects with be enhanced with exposure to two of How will the Europes higher-growth economies of Ireland and Spain and additional sources of capital to forge combined ahead with ambitions to expand the Premium outlets portfolio.
It will provide the opportunity for business significant rationalisation of the combined property portfolio through a proposed disposal programme be stronger?
of at least 2 billion over the short to medium term.
This will both strengthen our combined balance sheet and provide liquidity to reinvest in higher return opportunities.
We will have more retail space in large high-quality centres which are desirable to retailers.
Access to shared data and customer insights will further improve our consumer knowledge and help provide insights to retailers.
We will draw on our complementary digital strategies, including intus affiliate website and Hammersons bespoke apps, to deliver highly productive space that enables retailers to succeed in its centres in a multichannel landscape.
The acquisition will provide employees from both Hammerson and intu additional opportunities and exciting personal development and growth prospects.
The transaction is expected to be earnings accretive in the first full financial year after completion.
It is What are the anticipated that dividend growth will be at least in line with Hammersons track-record.
The enlarged financial group will achieve approximately 25 million of run-rate cost synergies per annum, with a one-off benefits?
integration cost of approximately 40 million.
In addition, there will be opportunities for further cost savings from operational efficiencies and refinancing.
As a result of the enhanced operating platform, we have greater confidence in delivering positive like-for-like net rental income growth.
Hammerson remains the only European REIT with meaningful strategic investment in European Does this dilute Premium outlets and the proposed disposal programme will provide increased capital to grow this your exposure to faster.
The addition of a portfolio in Spain is aligned with Hammersons strategy of focusing on higher-growth growing consumer markets and adds three significant Spanish shopping centres which allows us to markets?
expand our offer to our retail partners.
The combined expertise will better position us to build the attractive enlarged development pipeline in the UK, France and Ireland and the significant Spanish development pipeline.
An Extraordinary General Meeting of Hammerson shareholders to vote on the transaction is scheduled What are the for April 2018.
Shareholder documents will be distributed around four weeks ahead of that date.
shareholder approval is obtained, the only remaining condition will be competition regulatory approval and following receipt of that approval, the transaction is anticipated to complete in Q4 2018.
