Chief Executives report Portfolio changes One measure of the portfolios potential to benefit from the managers stock picking decisions is the active share which The changes made over describes the proportion of the portfolio which differs from the benchmark see page 10.
This rose from 70 % to 77 % during the past year increase the 2017.
Exposure to emerging markets was raised in February stock specific focus of the with the appointment of GQG.
In May, the five global managers were consolidated into three and in October two managers portfolio, at a time when index with concentrated portfolios were appointed to increase European exposure.
The Strategic Report on pages 8 to 20 sets out details of the third party managers performance during the year as well as decisions made in the areas of gearing, the use of index futures, changes in external managers and the portfolio of directly held collective investments.
Outlook The investment markets in 2017 During 2017, some central banks began to raise interest rates or to reduce and, in the US, start to reverse the monetary Equity markets performed well during 2017, with global stimulus stemming from their purchases of financial equities up 13.
After lagging significantly assets quantitative easing.
Inflation remained low and less during 2016, UK equities 13.1% kept pace with overseas responsive than expected to rising economic activity, enabling markets, despite the vicissitudes of the Brexit negotiations.
monetary tightening to take place very gradually more a Overseas market returns of over 20% in many regions were case of taking the foot off the accelerator than applying the partly offset as the pound reversed some of its 2016 losses but brakes.
in sterling terms most regions still delivered strong absolute returns, with a better performance by non-US markets, after a long period of US leadership.
The strongest regions were 2018 seems set to be another year of broadly-based, steady Europe 1 6.
5%, while North America but not especially rapid, global economic growth.
should be supportive of growth in profits, bond and equity markets may be vulnerable if currently benign inflation Witans multi-manager approach is to select a range of external assumptions are disappointed.
There are several potential managers who have demonstrated the potential to outperform, risks.
to create a portfolio targeting both capital and income growth.
2017 was a good year for active management and our external The enactment of a significant programme of tax cuts in the managers as a whole beat their benchmarks.
The net asset US at the end of 2017 will potentially boost growth at a time value total return outperformance was principally driven by when there is limited spare capacity in the US economy.
The this, along with the decision to maintain 10% gearing for most success of oil producers in restraining output has pushed oil of the year.
Notable performances were achieved by Lindsell prices up which, unless the move is reversed, will increase Train 21.8%, Lansdowne 19.1% and Veritas 17.1%.
energy costs for oil users.
Increased cost pressures may These, together with the Direct Holdings portfolio 27.2% all reduce corporate profits, given the widespread lack of pricing materially outperformed their benchmarks.
power as a result of globalisation and the disruptive effect of technological change.
Central banks might react to higher than expected inflation with faster than expected rate rises.
A further factor is that reducing central bank bond purchases will progressively weigh on the balance between supply and demand in government bond markets which, other things being equal, will exert upward pressure on yields.
06 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Performance attribution of Witans growth in net asset value during 2017 The chart below shows the contributions in pence per share attributable to the various components of investment performance and costs, which together add up to the rise from the starting NAV for the year of 939.2 pence to the ending NAV of 1 096.
2 pence, after the payment of dividends to shareholders.
1150 0.5 0.1 20.3 -10.3 -4.2 -20.5 28.1 1100 1096.2 142.9 1050 1000 950 939.2 900 0 End 2016 Portfolio Portfolio Returns from Share Change in Expenses Finance Dividends End 2017 NAV Gains Income use of gearing Buybacks Value of Debt inc Tax Costs Paid NAV Gains Costs Dividends Total N. B.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
These developments will be monitored carefully.
Although The improvement in economic growth should allow corporate moderate rises in inflation, interest rates and bond yields profits to catch up with the expectation built into equity can coincide with healthy economic growth and rising equity valuations.
Assuming that rises in bond yields are moderate, markets, watchfulness is called for given the degree of equity ratings continue to look competitive with the returns investor optimism reflected in equity valuations.
The volatile offered from bonds and cash.
Equity ratings are high by market conditions that appeared in early February were a historic standards, but interest rates are extraordinarily low.
reminder of the need for optimism on growth to be tempered The changes made over the past year increase the stockby realism on valuations amid bond-market nervousness specific focus of the portfolio, at a time when index valuations concerning possible inflation risks.
On the home front, the underperformance by domesticallyexposed UK equities suggests lingering concerns, as a Andrew Bell result of 2016s Brexit referendum and the policy uncertainty Chief Executive engendered by 2017s General Election.
The Board and its 12 March 2018 managers will continue to take account of the implications of these issues, amongst others, in managing Witans globally diversified portfolio.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 07 Pence per share Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report
