05 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information CEOs statement Our ambition is to drive a high-performance culture, putting science at the heart of GSK, remaining true to our values and our purpose: to help people do more, feel better, live longer.
Emma Walmsley Chief Executive Officer Our long-term priorities Im delighted to be introducing GSKs Consumer Healthcare sales were driven 2017 Annual Report: my first as CEO.
by our power brands which continued Innovation See page 12 to outpace market growth.
Sales from Since starting in this role it has become new GSK innovations represented increasingly clear to me that while the approximately 13% of turnover.
Performance See page 14 healthcare industry remains an attractive sector, it is entering a period of significant Total earnings per share were 31.4p change bringing both challenges and after accounting charges of 1.6 billion Trust See page 16 opportunities.
In addition, despite improved related to US tax reform, with Adjusted delivery in recent years, it is also clear there earnings per share up 11% AER, 4% CER are several areas of the company that need to 111.8p.
Our three businesses Group Adjusted operating margin improved, Thats why, in July, I set out three long-term reflecting effective management of costs Pharmaceuticals See page 22 priorities which everyone in the company and successful integrations of our new is focused on: Innovation, Performance businesses in Vaccines and Consumer Vaccines See page 30 and Trust.
I believe these priorities enable Healthcare.
us to focus on areas we can improve and We have renewed our emphasis on cost allow us to respond more effectively to our Consumer See page 36 and cash discipline and I was pleased operating environment.
They will focus us to see our free cash flow for the year Healthcare on delivering improved performance and was 3.4 billion, an improvement of over better returns for shareholders over both 400million on the previous year.
We the short and long term, as well as a met our expectation of paying a dividend broader societal contribution.
of 80 pence per share for 2017 and we expect to deliver the same for 2018.
2017 performance Group sales were 30.2 billion, up 8% at Pipeline progress actual rates and 3% at constant exchange Towards the end of 2017 we received rates CER, with growth across all three approvals for three key new products: businesses.
This is the first time Group Shingrix, our new vaccine which represents sales have reached more than 30billion a new standard for the prevention of in a year.
shingles: Juluca, the first in a series of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine product 2-drug regimens for HIV which reduces sales were 6.7 billion, with continued the number of drugs patients take as they strong performances from our HIV are now living longer with what is becoming medicines, Tivicay and Triumeq, our Ellipta a more chronic disease: and Trelegy Ellipta, portfolio and biologic medicine Nucala in which is the first once a day inhaler to Respiratory, and our meningitis vaccines.
combine three medicines in one device to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary The performance of these new products disease COPD.
is a great demonstration of what we can achieve when our commercial organisation Our focus in 2018 is to successfully launch has clear focus.
these new products which bring significant benefits to patients, and to continue to maximise our current portfolio.
Footnote We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report performance, as described on page 58.
06 GSK Annual Report 2017 CEOS statement continued I have been clear that we need to strengthen Hal is one of three senior leaders we our Pharmaceutical business and pipeline appointed to the executive team last year.
as this will ultimately drive sustainable, Luke Miels joined as our new President, long-term growth for the company.
Pharmaceuticals and is responsible for driving performance in the commercial During 2017, we set out how we are organisation and will work closely with refocusing our R&D organisation on Hal to ensure alignment with R&D.
four areas: two where we are a world Karenann Terrell also joined us in a new leader Respiratory and HIV: and two role as Chief Digital and Technology potential areas Oncology and ImmunoOfficer.
Karenann joins at a time when inflammation.
Our pipeline in these potential the overlap between healthcare and areas is innovative but early, and over the technology has never been more apparent next 2 to 3 years we will continue to receive and potentially transformative.
Her role is data from a number of key assets which to ensure GSK is at the forefront of this will inform how we progress them.
New external appointments We have made a number of other changes I am delighted that we appointed Dr Hal in our senior leadership through the year, Barron to be our Chief Scientific Officer promoting great internal talent and and President, R&D.
He joins us from bringing in fresh expertise from outside Calico, an Alphabet-funded company, and the company.
before that spent many years at Roche and Genentech where he gained an exceptional Performance and values based culture Our ambition is to drive a high-performance reputation for leading highly productive R&D teams.
I would like to thank Dr Patrick culture, putting science at the heart of Vallance, our outgoing President of R&D, GSK, remaining true to our values and for his contribution over the last 12 years our purpose: to help people do more, feel and for ensuring a smooth transition with better, live longer.
We have a long history in Hal.
I wish him well in his new role as the tackling some of the worlds biggest health UK Governments Chief Scientific Adviser, challenges.
Our commitment to improving for which he is uniquely qualified.
global health and being a responsible business will continue under my leadership.
Karenann Terrell Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Digital and Technology Officer 2.
Claire Thomas Chief Scientific Officer and Senior Vice President, Global Ethics Senior Vice President, President, R&D and Compliance Human Resources 3.
P hil Thomson President, Global Manufacturing CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare President, Global Affairs and Supply 8.
Luc Debruyne President, Global Pharmaceuticals Senior Vice President President, Global Vaccines and General Counsel 9.
D avid Redfern Chief Strategy Officer See pages 86 to 87 07 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our great people and their commitment are foundational for GSKs culture.
During the year, we conducted a new global employee Technology is revolutionising healthcare survey, aligned to our priorities, and I was pleased to see a meaningful improvement New frontiers of innovation, such as genomics, are in employee engagement scores, which creating major opportunities for us and patients.
are an important driver of performance.
Outlook The ability to apply new technology We are also maximising the huge Given the momentum we are seeing in across our R&D activities is creating amount of data within GSK by applying our new products and recent launches, a major opportunity for GSK.
Currently, artificial intelligence and machine the operating performance improvements learning to allow us to identify across the industry almost 90% of we are driving and the benefit of US tax medicines entering trials fail and never patterns that would have been almost reform, we are increasingly confident in reach patients.
In part this is because impossible to identify using traditional our ability to deliver our 2020 outlook of we have an incomplete understanding methods.
We can now model the right mid to high single digit growth in Adjusted patient population and where to find of the link between the biological EPS CAGR 20162020 at 2015 CER.
target of a drug and human disease.
them for our clinical trials, reduce or Pursuing drug targets with human eliminate the need for some studies, While we could see generic competition genetic evidence to support the and in some cases predict outcomes to Advair in the US in 2018 our guidance in a virtual patient.
It is allowing us indication is estimated to double the for the year reflects this.
Aside from Advair probability of developing safe and to more effectively manage diversity we do not expect to face significant generic effective medicines, and improve within our clinical trials to align with erosion in the US until the mid-2020s.
research and development population demographics by analysing Finally, I want to say thank you to GSK our clinical trials from the last ten years.
In recent years, employees, partners and customers for approximately 60% of GSKs new GSK is connecting and bringing their work in 2017 and especially for their targets have been supported by human to life patient data from genomics, support to me in my first year as CEO.
It is also why GSK wearable devices, social media and I very much look forward to working with was one of the first companies to make other emerging sources, ensuring them in 2018 and beyond to deliver our a multi-million pound investment in UK we can leverage the opportunities long-term priorities and improved Biobank to support the generation of presented by these.
new genetic sequencing data from half a million volunteers.
The information generated from this ground-breaking health resource will provide vital insights that we hope will inform and support the development of transformative medicines.
Emma Walmsley Chief Executive Officer Footnote We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, Image: Wellcome Images measures to report performance, as described on page 58.
G e n e t r n a t e e m r p e o v l e e n v u e e D a n d p r o h c t r a e s e r c i t n e i c s n i t s e v n I 08 GSK Annual Report 2017 How we create long-term value 1 As a science-led global healthcare company our three businesses have the common aim of improving health.
On this page we describe the resources we rely on, how our business activities span the lifecycle of a product, and how we create long-term value for shareholders and society.
Our resources Talented people Pharmaceuticals Scientific and technical know-how Effective capital Our purpose allocation Vaccines External collaborations Consumer Healthcare Supply chain Our long-term priorities Our values Our expectations Patient focus Courage Innovation Transparency Accountability Performance Respect Development Trust Integrity Teamwork s n r u t e r e t u b M i r a t s n i u d f a d c n t a u r t i s n e g v n a i n e d R c o m m e r c i a l i s a t i o n 09 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Industry trends Our long-term priorities How we measure success How we manage risk 2 3 4 5 The value we create For shareholders We aim to deliver sustained industry-leading growth with competitive costs, margins and cash flow.
We distribute capital to shareholders in the form of dividends.
How we create value 31.4p 111.8p Invest in scientific research Total earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share We invested 3.9 billion in research and development to bring new medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products to patients, 3.9bn 80p payers and consumers.
Strategic business development, including external partnerships 2017 dividends declared 2017 dividend per share and joint ventures, supports our in-house scientific research.
For patients and consumers Generate revenue and profit We aim to bring our differentiated, high-quality and needed healthcare products to as many people as possible.
We generate revenue by executing new product launches brilliantly and from the sales of our existing portfolios.
Each of our three businesses now has an integrated strategy with one P&L, 1.9bn 798m 6.2bn which enables us to drive competitive costs, Packs of medicine Vaccines sold Consumer Healthcare margins and cash flow across the company.
sold products made Reinvest and distribute returns For employees and society As part of our capital allocation framework we reinvest in our three businesses and also provide We want to run our company responsibly and ethically, and be returns to shareholders in the form of dividends.
a modern employer with strong employee engagement.
We make a positive contribution to communities in which we operate through creating employment, working with suppliers and paying tax.
98,462 1.34bn Employees Cash tax paid Footnote We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report performance, as described on page 58.
