STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW By outsourcing the purchasing, consolidation and delivery of a broad range of everyday items, our customers are able to focus on their core businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies and savings, free up working capital, improve distribution capabilities, reduce carbon emissions and simplify their internal administration.
Our deep understanding and extensive knowledge of the fragmented markets in which we operate and our ability to offer total solutions that provide quantifiable benefits to our customers have once again contributed to our success.
Frank van Zanten Chief Executive the Group operating margin by 20 basis Operating performance HIGHLIGHTS points at both constant and actual exchange With 87% of the Groups revenue generated rates to 6.9%.
outside the UK, the weakening of sterling Acquisitions against most currencies in 2016 had a Record level of committed acquisition In North America, revenue rose 10% significant positive translation impact on spend of 616 million adds 15 businesses 16% atactual exchange rates due to the theGroups reported results in 2017, to the Group.
impact ofhigher organic growth together increasing revenue, profits and earnings with the effect of acquisitions, while byapproximately 6%.
As in previous years, North America operating profit increased 4% 10% at actual the operations, including the relevant growth Improved organic revenue growth from exchange rates as the operating margin rates and changes in operating margins, significant additional grocery business, declined 30 basis points at both constant aretherefore reviewed below at constant albeit at lower margins.
andactual exchange rates to 6.3% due to the exchange rates to remove the distorting impact of the lower margin business won.
impact of these currency movements.
Continental Europe Revenue in Continental Europe rose 12% Changes in the level of revenue and profits Strong increases in revenue and 19% at actual exchange rates as a result atconstant exchange rates have been operating profit with operating margin ofthe impact of acquisitions and an improved calculated by retranslating the results up 10 basis points to 9.4%.
level of organic revenue growth, with for2016 at the average rates used for 2017. operating profit up 13% 19% at actual Unless otherwise stated, all references in UK & Ireland exchange rates and the operating margin this review to operating profit are to adjusted Return to organic revenue growth with up10 basis points to 9.4% at both constant operating profit being operating profit before operating margin down 30 basis points and actual exchange rates.
In UK & Ireland, customer relationships amortisation and principally due to higher import prices revenue was up 9% at both constant and acquisition related items while operating from weaker sterling.
actual exchange rates due to the impact of margin refers to adjusted operating profit acquisitions and a return to organic growth asa percentage of revenue.
Rest of the World and operating profit increased 5% 6% at Good growth in revenue and operating actual exchange rates with the operating Revenue increased 10% 16% at actual profit with margins stable.
margin decreasing by 30 basis points at both exchange rates to 8,580.9 million due to constant and actual exchange rates to 7.4%.
thepositive impact of acquisitions together To find out more see pages 30 to 37 In Rest of the World, revenue increased 5% with an improved level of organic growth.
15% at actual exchange rates as a result of Consistent with the trends seen during both acquisitions and organic growth with thefourth quarter of 2016, organic revenue operating profit up 5% 16% at actual continued to increase in 2017 and was up exchange rates and the operating margin 4.3% compared to the prior year, mainly as a unchanged at 7.5% at both constant and result of the additional business won in North actual exchange rates.
America towards the end of 2016.
Operating profit was 589.3 million, an increase of 6% Adjusted profit before income tax being 12% at actual exchange rates.
The profit before income tax, customer percentage growth in operating profit was relationships amortisation and acquisition lower than that of revenue principally due to related items was 542.6 million, up 7% the impact of the business won in North 13% at actual exchange rates due to the America being at an operating margin below growth in adjusted operating profit and a the Group average, resulting in a decline in lower net interest charge.
Profit before 6 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87% of the Groups revenue was generated outside the UK income tax was 409.3 million, an increase These included two larger transactions, of7% 13% at actual exchange rates.
Basic being DDS in the US and a group of earnings per share were 11% higher 17% businesses in France consisting of Hedis, atactual exchange rates at 94.2p.
Adjusted Comptoir fide Bretagne and Gnrale earnings per share, which exclude the Collectivits Groupe Hedis.
The annual effectof customer relationships acquisition spend in 2017 was a record amortisation, acquisition related items and levelfor the Group.
the associated tax, were 119.4p, an increase of 7% 13% at actual exchange rates.
In January 2017, in addition to completing the purchase of Sbe Compagniet and Prorisk The operating cash flow, which is before and GM Equipement, which we agreed to acquisition related items, continued to be acquire in November 2016, we acquired two strong with cash conversion the ratio of further businesses.
Early in the month we operating cash flow to adjusted operating purchased the business of Packaging Film profit at 97%.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA Sales which distributes food packaging calculated at average exchange rates products, including flexible barrier films and increased from 2.0 times at the end of 2016 speciality bags and pouches, to food to2.3 times, reflecting the higher level of processors in the US.
Revenue in 2016 was acquisition spend during the year.
At the end of January we acquired LSH, a distributor of safety products, Whether they have been with us for a long primarily to end users, which represents our time or are new to the Group, our dedicated, first step into Singapore.
Revenue in 2016 hardworking and loyal employees drive was 5 million.
continuous improvement in everything they do.
We in turn are committed to developing At the end of March we completed two our people to enhance our capability and acquisitions, ML Kishigo and Neri.
ML capacity across all our locations.
Our Kishigo, which is engaged in the sale of high success has been built on continued visibility clothing and other safety-related development and innovation to meet the workwear to distributors throughout the changing needs of our customers and I US, provides customised solutions for its strongly believe that everyone at Bunzl customers and brings additional expertise makes a key contribution to the successful and an extended product portfolio to our growth of the business through their diverse existing safety business in the US.
Neri supplies abroad range of personal protection equipment, including gloves, footwear and Acquisitions workwear, to both distributors and end users Acquisition activity, which is a key component throughout Italy and takes us into the of Bunzls growth strategy, picked up important safety market there for the first significantly in 2017.
agreed to purchase 15 businesses for a total committed acquisition spend of 616 million.
7 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We completed four transactions during May.
laboratory and healthcare related Prospects DDS is a distributor of goods not for resale consumable products to the pathology, The combination of our strong competitive and value-added services to retailers and medical research and life science end user position, diversified and resilient businesses other general distribution customers, markets in Australia.
Revenue in the year and ability to consolidate our fragmented principally throughout North America.
The ended June 2017 was 13 million.
markets further, should lead to continued business supplies a wide range of packaging, growth and our expectations for 2018 at consumables and operating store supplies We acquired a group of businesses in France constant exchange rates remain unchanged.
through a variety of distribution and at the end of November.
Groupe Hedis, which If exchange rates stay at their current levels, outsourcing programmes and has expanded trades through a number of subsidiaries, the recent weakening of the US dollar will and extended our operations, particularly in isengaged in the sale and distribution of have an adverse translation effect on the relation to the retail sector.
Revenue in 2016 cleaning & hygiene related products to a reported results in 2018. was 242 million.
Tecnopacking is engaged in variety of end user customers, principally the distribution of industrial and disposable inthe public, healthcare, foodservice and At constant exchange rates, each of our packaging products to end users operating in cleaning sectors, as well as to some business areas is expected to grow.
In North a variety of different sectors throughout redistributors.
Two other businesses, America, we expect revenue to increase as Spain as well as in Portugal.
Revenue in 2016 Comptoir fide Bretagne and Gnrale last years strong organic growth continues was 33 million.
This acquisition has further Collectivits, distribute light catering during the first quarter of this year before extended our operations in Spain which have equipment and tableware to a similarly returning to more normal levels thereafter grown significantly in recent years with total diverse customer base in France.
In 2016 as the substantial additional grocery annualised revenue now approaching 200 theaggregate revenue of the businesses business is fully absorbed, together with million.
We also acquired two separate acquired was 136 million, of which 115 theeffect of acquisitions.
We will continue businesses in Canada at the end of May.
million related to Hedis and 21 million tofocus on mitigating the impact of higher AMFAS and Western Safety are distributors related to Comptoir fide Bretagne and operating costs, caused in particular by the of commercial and industrial first aid and Gnrale Collectivits.
additional business won as well as some safety supplies, including a full range of inflationary pressures, through productivity personal protection equipment, to end user We completed the purchase of Lightning improvements and other initiatives.
In customers throughout Western Canada.
The Packaging in the UK in November.
Continental Europe we expect to see a strong businesses, which together had aggregated The business is principally engaged in performance due to continued organic annualised revenue of 10 million in 2016, thedistribution of industrial packaging growth and the purchase of Groupe Hedis also provide safety-related services productsto a variety of end user customers inFrance and other acquisitions, partly offset including training programmes and other throughout the UK.
Revenue in the year by the disposal of OPM in February 2018. workplace safety solutions.
Despite ongoing uncertainty in some of our InDecember we also entered into an markets, UK & Ireland should develop well Pixel Inspiration, a marketing services agreement to acquire the business of as a result of improved organic growth from business in the UK which specialises in the Aggorawhich designs, supplies, installs recent account wins and the impact of digital signage sector, was purchased at the andmaintains commercial catering acquisitions.
In Rest of the World, overall we end of June.
equipment for end user customers in the UK.
expect to see progress due to both organic The acquisition was completed in early and acquisition growth.
At the beginning of August we acquired January 2018.
Revenue in the year ended HSESF and its associated companies in March 2017 was 27 million.
As announced in January, we expect that China.
Based in Shanghai with operations therecent changes to tax legislation in the infour other provinces in eastern China, Since the year end we have acquired one US will reduce the Groups effective tax rate thebusinesses are principally engaged in further business.
In early January 2018 for 2018 to approximately 24% from 27.5% thesale of a variety of personal protection wepurchased Revco which designs and in2017.
equipment to local distributors and end develops workplace safety and personal users but also export to customers overseas.
protection equipment for supply to The pipeline of potential acquisitions remains The aggregate revenue of the businesses redistributors in the US.
Discussions are ongoing with a acquired was 24 million in 2016. was 29 million.
number of targets and we expect to complete further transactions as the year progresses.
During October we entered into an Disposal agreement to purchase Talge, which is The Board believes that the prospects of the In February 2018 we sold OPM, a distributor principally engaged in the sale of a variety Group are positive due to its strong market of SodaStream products in France, which offoodservice related products, mainly position and well established and successful was a non-core business that was no longer toredistributors in the southeast region strategy to grow the business both considered to be a strategic fit within the ofBrazil.
Completion of the acquisition took place inJanuary 2018 following clearance of Frank van Zanten thetransaction by the Brazilian competition Chief Executive authority.
At the end of October we 26 February 2018 purchased Interpath, which is principally engaged in the distribution of a variety of 8 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017
