Chief Executives review DRIVING FORWARD Our diversified business model has continued to deliver growth, underpinned by our progress with watch online inchcape.
com AR17 the Ignite strategy, our foundation for the future.
Our Retail businesses had a more challenging year, OVERVIEW with growth in New Car sales slowing in some developed I am delighted to report another strong year of markets.
The UK market declined in the second half of the performance in 2017.
We have continued to grow our year, putting pressure on margins.
Both the Australia global footprint, diversify our revenue streams, and evolve and UK Retail markets were also impacted by the product our business to meet the needs of the rapidly changing cycle of some brands that we represent.
In Russia, by global automotive market.
contrast, pleasingly we saw strong trading profit recovery Our Distribution business achieved strong organic largely supported by progress with Ignite in the region.
growth, boosted by the successful integration of our Although Distribution is our core focus for future growth, business in South America, acquired in 2016, which both organically and by M&A, our Retail operations has seen a trading profit performance ahead of plan.
They underpin and Our Distribution activities now contribute towards enhance our relationships with our brand partners, and c. 80% of Group profit, and are our strategic focus thus our Distribution business, and also provide proven for future growth.
Ignite best practice to leverage throughout the wider We embedded operations for Subaru in four new business.
We therefore continue to invest for the long markets and gained market share in New Zealand as term development of Retail.
well as Australia, where we also successfully integrated The Aftersales market continued to grow this year, with the Peugeot and Citron Distribution operations of an 8% constant currency increase in gross profit for the Groupe PSA into our business.
Group, excluding the effects of the acquired Subaru and Strengthening and deepening our relationships with Hino Distribution business in South America.
Performance our brand partners is a key focus of our Ignite strategy.
in Retail was in-line with this strong performance and This year, we celebrated 50 years of partnership with the reinforces our confidence that further value creation Toyota Group, whom we now represent in 19 national resides in our Retail business beyond New Car sales.
We also continued to strengthen our relationship addition, our focus on procurement has now achieved with our key partner BMW, who awarded us sole 20m of annualised cost savings, with further savings Distribution contracts in Estonia and also in Guam, opportunities still targeted.
our first BMW Distribution contract in Asia, added in We know that the global automotive market is changing January 2018. rapidly.
For customers, the car buying experience is now increasingly digital and mobile, with many mo.
re interactions taking place online, instead of in 14 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Uniquely positioned Regional overview to drive growth in OUR DISTRIBUTION OPERATIONS Asia a changing industry In Asia we delivered double-digit profit growth, driven The global automotive industry partly by a good performance in Singapore.
Technology-driven Singaporean commercial vehicles business performed particularly well, growing volumes by 32% year-on-year.
trends are rapidly evolving customer behaviours and expectations.
Hong Kong performance was also encouraging, Digitisation, increasing automation, regaining stability following a challenging trading growing connectivity and the environment during 2016.
In Thailand, we successfully embedded the Jaguar Land Rover Distribution business development and increasing we acquired during 2016, and our strengthened deployment of the autonomous presence in this market received recognition as we won car are just some of the trends the award for Retailer of the Year for Jaguar Land Rover developing with consumer Tapio, within the smaller operations category in Asia.
Our strategy focuses on The profit growth across Asia was complemented by leveraging opportunities from these a reduction in overheads, achieved by the integration exciting changes while building on of our North and South Asia business, into one regional Inchcapes unique position as an operation.
This is an early indication of the effectiveness independent, global multi-brand of the fixed-cost review that we announced in last years Distributor and Retailer.
Australasia Australasian Distribution achieved profit growth of 12% in constant currency, excluding an unfavourable exchange retail centres.
Inchcape is innovating fast to respond rate between Japanese Yen and Australian Dollar.
This to changing customer behaviour and demands, and was largely driven by the ongoing success of our Subaru we remain focused on providing a differentiated and Distribution operations in Australia that pleasingly gained excellent quality of service, no matter where our market share, taking our position to 4.4%, a new full year customers choose to interact with us.
The successful launch of the Subaru XV SUV and the popularity of the latest Impreza acted as strong You can read more about the Inchcape Customer performance boosts in 2017.
We also successfully integrated two new brands into TOP-LINE FINANCIAL RESULTS our global portfolio Peugeot and Citron following You can read a more detailed overview of Group and the win of the Groupe PSA contract.
The performance of regional performance in our Operating Review on page the PSA network was strong over the second half of the 20 To give you a quick overview of progress, however, year, particularly following the September launch of the I will briefly outline the top line results and regional Peugeot 3008 SUV.
Volumes have grown 46% under our trends here.
ownership and we doubled market share.
We see much further scope to continue building the Australian business Over 2017 Inchcape grew revenues 14% year-on-year for this new brand partner.
in actual currency and 9% in constant currency, with earnings before exceptionals, interest and tax up 14% in Emerging Markets actual currency and 9% in constant currency.
Pleasingly, Emerging Markets Distribution operations performed our free cash flow conversion was strong again in 2017 exceptionally well in 2017, with overall profit growth in at 77% and we ended the year with a net funds balance constant currency of 70% during the year.
contribution of our major acquisition in South America in December 2016, this stood at 11% at constant currency.
80% of our profits now come from fast-growing Emerging Markets and the APAC region, which we expect to drive Following the acquisition, we successfully implemented a robust organic growth over the medium term, boosted new regional structure across South America to unify the by strategic M&A.
This new structure and the implementation of best practice contributed very strongly We remain firmly focused on the efficient allocation of to the profit growth in the region, particularly thanks to an capital and have approved a new 100m share buyback excellent performance by Subaru in Chile and Peru.
We to be completed over the next 12 months.
We are also also saw good growth with Suzuki in Argentina, almost proposing a full year dividend of 26.8p per share, up doubling our market share.
