STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Q Frank van Zanten &A discusses how the business with the performed in 2017 and Chief Executive reflects on how he sees the Group now after his first full year as the Groups Chief Executive.
management conference that we held in We are selling products that are essential Q How would you summarise 2017 May.
This involved 165 of our most senior to our customers operations.
executives in the Group who came together customers want to spend as little time as over a period of three days.
We based the possible thinking about these goods not for 2017 has been another good year for Bunzl conference around five key themes with resale and therefore look to the expert with a 7% increase in adjusted earnings per cross company teams collaborating in knowledge of our staff to ensure they have share which has allowed us to continue our advance in preparation for the conference.
the right products and solutions for their long term track record of dividend growth When we came together the output and needs.
Given the essential nature of the for the 25th consecutive year.
Growth by discussions were incredible.
products we sell, on-time in-full deliveries acquisition is an important part of our ofcustomers entire orders are critical to the strategy and 2017 has been a record year for smooth running of their businesses without Q In your opinion what makes acquisition spend with the Company agreeing the meat trays, the butcher counter of a Bunzl unique?
to acquire 15 businesses with a total grocery store closes and without personal committed spend of 616 million.
protection equipment the construction site Bunzl provides a one-stop-shop for cannot operate safely.
essential products that represent a low Q What is the reasoning behind this proportion of our customers spend record acquisition spend?
Q Having completed a full year delivered in one consolidated delivery, in the role as Chief Executive, on-time and in-full.
We have a marketWe often buy family owned businesses have any of your initial leading position, operating on a global scale that require a trigger to sell such as across 30 countries and six market sectors.
The timing of when that We have a very decentralised management trigger will occur is difficult to predict, which structure with a strong entrepreneurial The Group has continued to grow and develop means we sometimes have to wait patiently culture and all of this together is what I during 2017 and I am very pleased to see this.
for many years until the business in question believe makes us unique in the markets in My initial observations which I talked about becomes available to purchase.
2017 has just which we compete.
Bunzl is a great been a year where several of our targets business with incredibly committed and chose to sell and we have also bought two Q What are the most important hardworking employees, many of whom I larger businesses being DDS in the US and aspects of the service that Bunzl have now had the pleasure to meet in person.
I will continue to execute our consistent and offers to its customers?
proven compounding strategy and believe we Q What has been your personal are well positioned for further development All aspects of the service we offer are highlight of 2017?
important to our customers, but if I had to highlight one or two it would be our ability One of the things I am passionate about is the to provide on-time and in-full deliveries of power of collaboration and the importance a broad range of products and the expert of sharing best practice, so my personal knowledge of our field sales people.
highlight of 2017 would have to be our global 9 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017
