Chief Executive Officers Statement We have addressed the various issues that faced us and we are building the foundations of futuresuccess Overview we saw the benefits, with business units likely to Leadership and Simplification We are reporting financial results for 2017 which respond at different speeds, and therefore potential We will only achieve optimal results if our employees are slightly ahead of expectations, with Group for an uneven recovery.
understand the Groups objectives, are motivated underlying trading profit of 210.3m and organic to achieve them and are made accountable.
Operational environment simplifying processes and procedures, which will Driven by heightened security threats, we are provide more time for focus on customers, with We delivered much improved cash generation in beginning to see an increase in global defence monthly operating reviews enabling us to have a 2017, with operating cash conversion of 103%, and budgets overall, although these are not without more constructive and forward looking dialogue net debt of 383.5m at the year end.
In addition, the US National Defense with our business unit leaders and we are rolling Sheet is now stronger than a year ago, reflecting the Strategy document, published in early 2018, makes out a new streamlined Group policy framework May 2017 Rights Issue and the benefit of the cash technology modernisation one of its themes, with to ensure clearer governance.
The cash generation has been achieved favourable implications for Cobham.
Commercial from a combination of management focus and a aerospace markets continue to see volume growth, We have strengthened the management team with benefit from some deferred cash phasing against although there remain areas of commercial market focus on critical capability gaps.
During the year, the 2016 onerous contract charges, and lower weakness, including maritime and flying services I appointed Air Marshall Greg Bagwell as Strategic capital expenditure.
There was also some in Australia.
Across all markets, customers demand Advisor and Chris Shaw as Chief Operations Officer.
favourable working capital timing, including 27m value-for-money, driving the need to be We have also strengthened the team by appointing of advance customer receipts.
competitive on price: this alongside flawless Paul Kahn as President of the Communications execution and enhanced capability.
It is to prosper and Connectivity Sector and Gillian Duggan as During my first year, I have been impressed with the in this environment that we are pursuing our Executive Vice President Human Resources and Groups technology and capabilities and its people turnaround strategy.
These individuals bring strong and I have also had regular contact with many of operational track records, with considerable energy our customers.
This has reinforced my early Progress against operational priorities and ideas.
I will continue to selectively strengthen conviction that Cobham has a number of high We have made progress on the three operational the broader management team.
quality businesses with differentiated technology priorities which I originally set out.
These will and know-how, and leading positions in a number continue to be a focus for 2018, with key In addition, the Advanced Electronics Solutions of attractive markets.
Taken together, this gives me achievements below: Sector CAES operates under a Special Security confidence in the Groups medium term prospects.
Agreement SSA, with the Sector Board critical to Customer Focus Sector governance and performance.
The Board Encouraging first year of our To enable us to grow the business, we need to has been significantly strengthened during the year turnaroundplan understand our customers needs, invest in our with the appointments of Admiral Steve Abbot USN At our results announcement in March 2017, we products and services, and deliver on time.
We have retired, General Mike Hagee USMC retired, Cindy identified a number of significant opportunities significantly increased the level of CEO and senior Moran and Scott Webster.
These included improved management engagement with customers, execution, better first-pass quality, a reduction in supplementing the business unit level engagement.
Control and Execution organisational complexity and duplication, and We are improving co-ordination to deliver greater Underpinning what we do is a need to improve improved capital allocation decision making.
We customer facing collaboration and we have the ability to forecast performance and enhance continue to believe that these should enable increased training during the year on root cause control.
This includes strengthening supply chain Cobham to deliver underlying operating margins problem solving and lean manufacturing.
management and quality management functions 2-3% higher over the medium term, all else being and making investments to improve our equal.
We identified three operational priorities manufacturing performance.
We have also comprising 1 customer focus, 2 leadership and provided definition and clarity over minimum simplification and 3 control and execution.
It standards of financial control for all our businesses.
was clear that the improvement process would be iterative and would take at least two years before Cobham plc www.
com 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT In conclusion, we are beginning to see early signs Accordingly we announced in February 2018 that of progress across the business.
I am proud of how we had agreed to divest the AvComm and Wireless most of Cobhams employees have responded to test and measurement businesses for US$455m It is my conviction the challenge and, in particular, their demonstration cash consideration, following an auction, with the of real commitment to customers.
However, while businesses comprising approximately 8% of Group that Cobham has high we have many improvement actions in-train and revenue in 2017.
On completion of the divestment, we have started to build the foundations of future we will have increased the coherency of the quality businesses with success, there is much that is work-in-progress portfolio, reducing risk by exiting businesses with with a lot left to do.
little commonality with the Group.
Completion differentiated technology is subject to US anti-trust clearance and other Update on 2016 onerous contracts customary conditions, and is anticipated in the and know-how We are progressing delivery on our contracts first half of 2018. against which we took significant charges in 2016, including on the largest of them, the KC-46 Our strategy is focused on organic growth and programme.
KC-46 qualification is ongoing as part aligned to our operational improvement priorities, of the overarching US Federal Aviation as it will succeed when we combine our high Administration certification process.
The work is value-add technology and capabilities with being carried out according to the terms of the improved execution and delivery.
Future growth will original development contract signed in 2011, be driven by increasing the number of products and which contains some significant terms including services we supply to our customers, as well as relating to delayed performance.
The Centreline selling more of our technology and capabilities into Drogue System qualification is nearing completion attractive geographies.
We will avoid higher risk, and the more complex Wing Aerial Refuelling Pod unrelated diversification.
qualification will be ongoing into the second half of2018.
Technology investment A technology focused company like Cobham needs We continue to support delivery of the first 18 to fund Private Venture PV investment.
This keeps KC-46 production aircraft to the US Air Force during our products and technology fresh, by delivering 2018.
A number of challenges remain, and the focus the cost savings customers want and the capability continues to be on achieving improvements in the enhancements they need.
We are moving Cobham supply chain and quality management.
towards an appropriate methodology to ensure we are consistently allocating this investment for On other programmes, we have taken some optimal returns.
additional charges at the 2017 year end within Group underlying operating profit but overall our Outlook estimates for the 2016 onerous contract provisions The Group is one year into its turnaround are still appropriate.
2018 will be a critical year for programme.
Whilst early progress is encouraging, delivering against these contracts.
there remains much to do in order to improve operational execution and efficiency and return Balance Sheet the Group to strength.
Risks and challenges remain Our year end gearing ratio was 1.3x 31 December in our business and the necessary actions to 2016: 3.0x.
As I have previously stated, the complete the turnaround are expected to take time improved position is due primarily to the May 2017 and have associated costs.
Overall for the Group, Rights Issue, which raised 497m net of expenses.
the Boards expectations for 2018 remain This was enhanced by a greater level of focus on unchanged with a range of potential outcomes.
our cash position, enabling us to deliver cash Reported performance for 2018 will be affected conversion of 103% in the year.
We will continue by the timing of completion of the AvComm and the focus on cash.
Wireless test and measurement divestment, as well as foreign exchange rates impacting the One year ago the Board set a net debt EBITDA translation of overseas business results.
The Board threshold of 1.5x in response to the immediate has confidence in the medium term outlook for need to strengthen the Balance Sheet.
review Cobhams Balance Sheet structure as the risk profile of the Group reduces, and we will set out a capital allocation policy at the end of 2018.
Strategy Our three operational priorities are only the first David Lockwood step in delivering an improvement in Cobhams Chief Executive Officer fortunes.
Cobham is best placed to generate value 1 March 2018 when it focuses on its defence, aerospace and space markets.
We can add value where we serve markets we know with technology and capabilities, where we have real depth in skill and understanding.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07
