Group Chief Executives review Evolving our business inachanging world I am pleased to present another year of good results for Schroders.
We have seen assetsunder management and administration reach a new high of 447.0 billion, inpartdue togenerating net new business from clients of 9.6 billion.
We have continued to strategically invest in the future growth of the business, while still maintaining strong cost discipline, improving the ratio of total costs to net income by three percentage points to 61%.
Despite pressure on our revenue margins, we delivered record profit before tax and exceptional items of 800.3 million and profit before tax of 760.2 million.
More information on our financial performance is set out in the business andfinancialreview starting on page 20.
10 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report During 2017, we have seen markets remain relatively A changing industry benign, despite economic and political uncertainty.
There are a number of well-publicised challenges that Theyear also saw clear challenges facing the we face as an industry.
Pressures on fee margins have assetmanagement industry and specifically active not abated and regulatory change and complexity investment managers such as Schroders.
The market share of passive market environment we have attracted 9.6 billion products continues to grow and we are witnessing ofnet new assets that we have invested on behalf anumber ofmajor asset owners derisking their ofourclients.
portfolios, moving away from public markets, orinsourcing asset management capabilities.
As an active manager focused on the long term, Ibelieve that we have a vitally important role to play as guardians Against this backdrop of uncertainty, the asset of our clients savings.
Our overall purpose is to build management industry is at a crossroads.
We have seen their future prosperity by investing responsibly using some consolidation, as some of our peers have looked actively-managed solutions to help them meet their towards large-scale mergers or acquisitions to achieve future financials goals.
This requires having a talented greater diversification or to drive efficiencies.
workforce with the right tools to ensure our active We have decided to go in a different direction.
We security selection and asset allocation delivers continued believe in the strength of the Schroders proposition outperformance or the desired outcome.
and the ability to adapt our business for the future Our clients trust us to deliver sustainable returns through investment in the right opportunities, whether through periods of economic prosperity and uncertainty supporting organic growth or in targeted acquisitions and it is a responsibility that we take very seriously.
aligned with our strategic priorities.
Stewardship Despite the challenges that exist, we see a number As responsible stewards of capital, we also have ofreasons for optimism.
There are opportunities which animportant role to play in the wider economy.
can drive the future growth of our business.
Weactively allocate capital to companies across the Our strategy is to invest for this growth, adapting and world, promoting growth in all the sectors and regions evolving how we run the firm to meet these challenges where we invest.
We engage with companies in which we invest to improve levels of governance and to encourage greater sustainability.
This engagement allows us to facilitate We believe in the strength of our improvements in how these companies operate, proposition and the ability to adapt our andhow they are governed, in the interests of both ourclients and wider society.
More information on business for the future ourapproach to sustainable investing can be found frompage30.
Product strategy Client investment performance One of the most well-publicised trends in asset Our key priority remains successfully and consistently management is the rise of passively-managed delivering positive investment outcomes for our clients.
We understand that both active and passive Investment performance remained strong in 2017, with products can have a role to play in clients portfolios.
74% of assets outperforming their stated comparator However, we remain a firm believer in the value over a three year period.
Over one year, 70% of assets ofactive management, where investors are seeking outperformed and over five years, the figure was 84%.
toachieve outperformance or a specific outcome.
More information on how we measure investment We remain committed to focusing onareas where performance is set out in the business and financial active management demonstrates clear, repeatable review on page 23.
We strongly believe that we offer advantages.
This could be within outcome-oriented value for money for our clients and add real value to strategies, which are not typically designed around an their portfolios.
It could be in areas of the world where public During 2017, stock markets were unusually benign, markets are less efficient, such as within emerging rising steadily throughout the year.
It is right not to markets.
Or it could be in areas in which passive expect this to continue.
Valuations are high and there investment strategies cannot efficiently compete, such are new risks emerging in the structure of markets, as illiquid fixed income or private assets.
notably the very large flows into Exchange Traded Changing market dynamics also provide us with the Funds.
These have not previously been tested inmore opportunity to take a fresh look at our product range.
With a diverse offering of more than 650 funds across 41 investment desks, we support our clients by identifying the right solution for them.
To do so, we have restructured our product range around 10 key strategic capabilities, which are set out on page13.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Group Chief Executives review continued Regional growth We have made progress this year in a number of key strategic areas which we believe will drive future Market and opportunities growth.
From a regional perspective, I have previously highlighted the growth potential in North America and Asia Pacific.
Continued macro uncertainty 2017 has seen a continuation of many of the themes that have defined recent We have seen good underlying traction in growing years.
Political instability, low interest rates and high market valuations have ourbusiness in North America.
The partnership with again driven headlines across the world.
Hartford Funds that we announced in 2016 has been successful, generating net new business of 1.7 billion While political uncertainty did not diminish in 2017, there was a slowdown since the relationship began.
We are also seeing good inthewave of populism that had dominated the previous year.
General elections momentum in generating new business from in France and the Netherlands were won by the more centrist parties, despite institutional clients.
We see more opportunities in populist movements.
However, we witnessed independence campaigns in Spain, theregion and it continues to be an area of strategic increasing far-right politics in Austria and a German general election that left the focus for us.
incumbent party initially struggling to form a coalition government.
In Asia Pacific, we have continued to generate good net In our home market of the UK, a snap general election failed to deliver a majority flows from clients in Japan, one of the largest markets government to any political party.
The UKs planned exit from the European in the world and one of the few in the region where our Union has continued to dominate the political agenda and a great deal of market share is relatively small.
The Chinese market is uncertainty remains.
opening up to foreign investors and represents a very significant opportunity for us.
We are expanding our In the US, the administration struggled to push through key legislation, although footprint both through our existing relationship with succeeded in passing a tax reform bill that will reduce the headline corporate tax Bank of Communications and through the distribution rate.
In Asia Pacific, escalating tensions on the Korean peninsula threatened to of wholly-owned products to the Chinese retail market, destabilise the region.
where we have recently received a private fund Interest rates globally remain at historically low levels, although we have seen management licence.
some central banks take steps towards normalising monetary policy.
The Federal Private assets and alternatives Reserve has enacted three interest rate increases through 2017 and the Bank ofEngland raised rates for the first time in a decade.
The European Central Bank Product diversification is one of Schroders key maintained its Quantitative Easing policy, but tapered purchases throughout strengths, as we have broad investment capabilities theyear and is expected to continue to do so in 2018. ina range of asset classes.
Regulation continues to be a key focus for the industry.
In June, the UKs Financial We have expanded our capabilities further in private Conduct Authority FCA published the final report of its Asset Management assets, which we consider to be a key area of strategic Market Study and announced a series of measures to improve competition growth.
In 2017 this included the acquisition of Adveq, within the industry.
In Europe, MiFID II and PRIIPs dominated regulatory now rebranded Schroder Adveq, and the creation discussions.
Both were implemented at the start of 2018 and aim to provide ofaspecialist alternatives sales unit.
greater investor protection and improve transparency.
Schroder Adveq is a Swiss-based private equity firm, with a strong track record of AUM growth and a high quality institutional client base.
Private equity displays Asset class returns in 2017 many of the characteristics that make private assets an attractive asset class, such as the benefits of active investment management, high institutional client 125 demand and excellent client longevity.
120 This acquisition increased our total AUM in Private Assets and Alternatives to33.3 billion, building upon existing capabilities including in real estate, 115 infrastructure debt, insurance-linked securities and direct lending.
110 Technology 105 We believe that the effective use of leading technologyand data processing will be critical toourfuture success.
100 Our focus on embedding technology and data analytics 95 across our business allows us to gain insights into Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec client behaviour, build conviction in portfolio positions and drive efficiencies.
MSCI World equities BofA Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Our data insights teams have grown considerably and BofA Merrill Lynch Global Corporate Investment Grade are embedded within investment teams not just in the US 10-year Treasury bonds UK, but also in a number of our overseas offices.
These data scientists use alternative and non-traditional data sets to gain unique insights to complement the work of Returns in US dollar, rebased to 100 at 31 December 2016.
12 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Market and opportunities A good year for risk assets Our strategy for changing client demand Despite these macro concerns, our clients have benefited from Although markets have largely dealt well with macro concerns, abenign environment through 2017, with global equity markets uncertainty remains and it is possible that the investment advancing against a backdrop of positive economic data.
Global environment will become more challenging.
growth rates have continued to improve, albeit in many cases these Against this backdrop, many of our clients face difficulties in were not matched by wage growth.
Inflation rates in most deciding where to invest.
Increasingly, they are looking to us developed economies remain relatively low and employment data toprovide more than just component building blocks for their has generally been strong.
Instead, they require complete solutions that help them Within global equity markets, all of the major indices provided achieve their financial goals.
positive returns for the year.
Emerging markets led the way with Our solutions are designed to take advantage of positive returns anear 40% return in US dollar terms.
European and US indices also but to also provide protection in more challenging environments, performed well, although the latter fell behind when taking the consistently delivering specific outcomes.
depreciation of the US dollar into account.
We have adapted our business towards a more client-centric The positive environment for risk assets was also beneficial for proposition.
In 2016, we created an independent Product division credit strategies, with both global high yield and investment grade and a Solutions team who focus on institutional clients objectives indices providing strong positive returns.
Although equity markets were largely unaffected by macro and We continue to focus on responding to changing client demands geopolitical concerns, this was not generally the same in fixed and in 2017 we reshaped the way we look at our product range.
We income markets, particularly in government debt.
As European have restructured our product offering to provide a more complete, political risk grew at the start of the year, yields rose in French and solutions-based view of our range.
This new approach moves away Italian government bonds ahead of elections.
However, both ended from a traditional asset class view and instead focuses on delivering the year positively as political concerns subsided.
specific outcomes designed to meet abroad range of client needs.
There was some volatility within major currencies at the beginning We have assessed the strategies run by our 41 investment teams of the year but trends became clear through the second quarter.
These strategic capabilities are The US dollar weakened against most major currencies throughout centred on areas of significant or growing client demand, existing the second half, when measured using effective exchange rates, investment strength and persistent demand for active while the euro strengthened.
but ended the year having strengthened slightly due to some positive progress in Brexit negotiations.
Our strategic capabilities are listed below and cover a wide range ofareas, from delivering a consistent income to providing for retirement or focusing on sustainability and strong governance.
Currency returns in 2017 Our ten strategic capabilities 110 105 Absolute Alpha Emerging Credit Return Equity Markets 100 95 90 Multi-Asset Private Income Retirement Solutions Assets 85 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Read more about our British pound sterling Euro strategic capabilities in the US dollar glossary onpage 170 and at schroders.
Solutions Sustainability Effective exchange rate, based on a basket of major currencies, rebased to 100 at 31 December 2016.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
