12 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review Well positioned for growth 2017 was a year of good progress for the Group with results in-line with market expectations.
Our various initiatives have further improved operational performance, and on-going investment in great new products and customer solutions has enhanced our market competitiveness.
which represent almost 80% of the divisions Overview revenue, showed good progress in the year 2017 was another year of important progress for across all of our key geographies.
The combination of a growing pipeline of great new products and the continued drive to improve In IMI Hydronic Engineering, the European our operational performance is enhancing our construction markets, which represent over competitiveness, the results from which will 80% of the divisions revenues, were marginally become increasingly evident as markets stronger and in North America and China continue to recover.
construction markets continued to grow.
Acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing Cost reduction initiatives Company Bimba In response to the protracted deterioration in The previously announced acquisition of Bimba for several of our most important markets, we a total consideration of 148m US$198m was continued to undertake a number of restructuring completed on 31 January 2018.
These actions have now included the is fully aligned with our strategy and fulfils our sale or closure of twelve lower growth, higher cost Mark Selway stated objective of increasing our US revenues IMI Critical Engineering sites and the reduction of Chief Executive while extending IMI Precision Engineerings operating costs across the entire Group.
presence in its core Industrial Automation In IMI Precision Engineering we continued to segment.
In particular, the acquisition provides the deliver Project Janus on-time and on-budget, platform to accelerate IMI Precision Engineerings including a structured programme of cost North American growth objectives by leveraging reductions, insourcing to increase machining both Bimbas strong brand and its market leading capacity utilisation, simplification of the US distributor network.
The combination will also organisational structure, and further leveraging materially improve Bimbas profitability with of our low-cost manufacturing operations.
margins expected to progressively move closer to those of IMI Precision Engineering as it adopts In IMI Hydronic Engineering, a programme to IMIs operational excellence programme.
reduce operating costs in targeted locations was completed in 2017.
Trading environment Trading conditions across our three divisions were Results overview mixed throughout 2017 with a return to strong growth in IMI Precision Engineerings end markets Adjusted Group revenues were 6% higher at offsetting ongoing softness in the Energy market 1,751m 2016: 1,649m.
Excluding favourable in IMI Critical Engineering.
exchange rate movements and disposals, Group revenues on an organic basis were flat when The Oil & Gas market, which represents almost compared to the prior year and reflected the mix of a third of IMI Critical Engineerings revenues, end markets across our three divisions.
Adjusted stabilised in the latter half of the year while the segmental operating profit was 6% higher at Power generation sector continued to be impacted 241m 2016: 228m.
Excluding the impact by lower investment due to power demand lagging of favourable exchange rate movements and the installed supply base.
disposals, segmental operating profit was flat on In IMI Precision Engineering, the core Industrial an organic basis.
The Groups operating margin Automation and Commercial Vehicle markets, was 13.8% against 13.8% in 2016 and adjusted Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 13 Strategic timeline 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 0: Year 1: Year 2: Year 3: Year 4: Ambition: The hard work Increased Benefits starting Nearly firing on Up to full Double begins investment to show all cylinders speed operating profits Supported by value enhancing acquisitions IMIs Executive at IMI Z&J in Dren, Germany, looking at a slide gate valve designed to handle temperatures of 1,600C.
earnings per share were 9% higher at 65.3p completed the transfer of 429m of liabilities to products across all three divisions.
Good operating cash flow of 218m insurance partners.
Building on that success, a confident that we will achieve world-class 2016: 246m followed a strong comparative last second phase is underway which is expected to operational performance by 2019, as year and reflected an increase in working capital to transfer in excess of 400m to insurers in 2018. envisaged in our original 2014 plan.
Overall, inventory days The overseas deficit has reduced by 24m in Improving our operational showed a modest improvement.
performance Improving operational performance is Net Debt of 265m 2016: 283m reflected good Good strategic progress fundamental to our objective of creating cash delivery and resulted in a Net Debt to EBITDA It is pleasing to report a further year of successful competitive advantage and remains a key ratio of 0.9x against 1.0x at the end of 2016. execution of our strategy, which is making a real part of our strategic plan.
IMI has continued its proactive risk management difference to our competitive positioning.
The UK schemes remain achievements, driven by a passion for continuous in surplus following our continued fide-risking improvement, included enhanced operational programme.
In early 2017 the Group successfully performance and the addition of high quality 14 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review 1 Members of IMIs Executive are shown a goggle valve in assembly at IMI Z&J Germany.
The valves can weigh over 100 tonnes.
2 IMIs Executive toured the newly refurbished manufacturing halls, which have been upgraded to provide worldclass facilities for petrochemical valve production.
3 Chief Executive, Mark Selway, checks out planning in IMI Z&Js Obeya room.
1 2 3 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 15 Executive Committee Mark Selway Daniel Shook Roy Twite Massimo Grassi Phil Clifton Paul Roberts Geoff Tranfield John OShea Chief Executive Finance Director Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Interim Managing Group Business Group Human Group Legal Director Director, IMI Critical Director, IMI Precision Director, IMI Hydronic Development Director Resources Director and Company Engineering Engineering Engineering Secretary During 2017 each of our divisions continued New product portfolios on the terms outlined in our 14 December to enhance their operational performance.
The Our focus on New Product Development gained announcement.
We continue to evaluate and Groups average Lean score advanced to 71% significant momentum during the year and as a refine our targets, enhance our integration at the year-end and compared to 66% at the result we have expanded our portfolio of great process and make our underlying businesses same point in 2016.
Scrap rates, on-time-delivery new products which enhance the competitiveness stronger, all of which will facilitate the success and inventory management all improved and the of the Group.
Our advanced product quality of any future developments.
benefits were evident in the Groups working planning process APQP and competitor product capital in the year.
This enhanced productivity tear-downs have resulted in the development of Our people and operational performance provides an industry-leading ranges of platform products in Our people are key to our success and the important foundation to underpin our increased IMI Precision Engineering which increased the progress we have made during 2017 is down competitiveness and responsiveness to customers.
divisions new product vitality index to 10% in to their continued hard work.
businesses there is a passion for continuous Positioning our businesses for growth improvement, and a focus on delivering the In the past three years, we have invested heavily IMI Hydronic Engineering maintained its best products and services to our customers in new systems and processes which are development pipeline and in 2017 launched 13 in a way consistent with our values and culture.
essential to the Groups sustainable competitive new products while IMI Critical Engineering also advantage.
During 2017 new integrated IT introduced further enhanced products through I would like to thank all IMI employees for their systems, that make day-to-day operations the year.
All three divisions have ambitious plans hard work and their on-going drive to deliver our more cost and time efficient, were successfully to continue their product development strategies strategic ambitions.
I would also like to extend installed on-time and on-budget in IMI Critical in 2018 and beyond.
a very warm welcome to our new colleagues Engineerings plants in China and the USA.
Furthermore, by combining New Product Precision Engineerings new JD Edwards system Development with Value Engineering processes, was successfully installed in three US sites and Outlook IMI Critical Engineering has expanded its the division is now focused on fully integrating addressable markets and is competing in In the first half of 2018 we expect organic all elements of the system before extending segments that were not previously accessible.
In revenues to be higher than for the same period its deployment elsewhere.
IMI Hydronic particular, following the development of a range in 2017, with margins reflecting a modest Engineerings JD Edwards ERP system of semi-severe valves, the division is now improvement, supported by both rationalisation was successfully deployed at its Slovenia competing effectively in larger adjacent markets savings and improved market conditions in IMI manufacturing plant and at nine country without compromising its divisional margins.
Results for the full year sales facilities during 2017. will also reflect our normal second-half bias.
Business development Today, disciplined and efficient processes, Alongside our organic growth initiatives, targeted including New Product Development, competitor acquisitions that meet our clearly defined and product tear-downs and the application of Value disciplined criteria remain a core part of our Engineering, are embedded across all our strategy.
In the year, we were pleased to confirm operations.
These processes underpin the the successful negotiation to acquire Bimba sustainability of continuous improvement and Manufacturing, a market leading supplier of ensure that investment ultimately delivers an pneumatic, hydraulic and electric motion products earlier and greater return.
Much has also to the North American Industrial Automation been achieved to simplify the way our market and on 1 February this year, we confirmed businesses operate.
that the transaction had successfully completed
