CEO STATEMENT A history of dedicated investment Whilst we have been impacted by events beyond One of our key focus areas over the last four our control, our operations still continued to years has been on reducing the number of deliver during 2017.
It was especially pleasing international employees and contractors within to see a record year of production at Buzwagi our business and ensuring that our Tanzanian of 268,785 ounces in spite of the uncertainty assets are increasingly led and operated by about the mines future as the mine effectively Tanzanian employees.
Since 2013, we have completed the final stage of the open pit ahead driven a reduction in international employees of moving to a stockpile processing operation of approximately 85% within our business and for the next three years.
North Mara continued now over 96% of our people are Tanzanian.
to perform well and delivered strong free cash Since my appointment as Interim CEO, we have flow despite production of 323,607 ounces continued this process and following the move being below 2016s record year.
Grades from to reduced operations at Bulyanhulu and the the Gokona Underground remained strong, transition of Buzwagi to stockpile processing albeit behind 2016s bonanza levels, as the we have consolidated the management teams focus of mining was in the lower grade West at the two mines, which are located within the PETER GELETA Zone.
During the year we substantially same region, into one, under the leadership INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER completed the mining of the Nyabirama Stage 3 of an experienced Tanzanian national, open pit and continued to progress waste Benedict Busunzu.
We are pleased to report stripping at the start of the Stage 4 open pit the combined Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi INTRODUCTION which will provide the majority of the mill feed management team is now made up of five going forward.
At Bulyanhulu we made the Tanzanian nationals and one international The Company recorded resilient difficult decision to move the mine to reduced employee.
Post year-end we also appointed operations in September and temporarily cease Asa Mwaipopo as our Managing Director, performance in what became a production from the underground mine and Tanzania.
Asa is a highly experienced difficult operating environment in therefore of gold copper concentrates, after Tanzanian mining engineer who has worked significant cash outflows through the year.
This in the industry and for us for a number of years 2017 and expects to return the was the primary driver behind production of in increasingly senior roles.
In his new role, 1 business to free cash generation 175,491 ounces being 39% behind 2016s level.
he will head up our Tanzanian business by during the forthcoming year.
becoming the Managing Director of each of On the cost side, we demonstrated further our Tanzanian operating entities with the Whilst operational performance improvement in AISC as strict cost discipline mine general managers and functional heads was maintained.
Group AISC of US$875 per was solid, financial performance in Tanzania reporting directly into him.
ounce sold was below the guidance range and was significantly impacted by the lowest that Acacia has ever achieved.
If Discussions between the Government of Group sales ounces had equalled production, Tanzania GoT and Barrick Gold Corporation Tanzanias on-going ban on AISC would have been approximately US$798 Barrick, Acacias majority shareholder, aimed exporting gold copper concentrate per ounce sold.
Buzwagi benefited from at resolving the current situation remain which resulted in approximately increased production rates which drove an on-going.
In October 2017, the GoT and Barrick AISC of US$667 per ounce sold, 39% lower each announced that the parties had agreed to US$264 million of lost revenue than 2016, with inventory adjustments a framework on a way forward, and Barrick has in 2017 and drove a total cash largely offsetting the lack of sales of gold in indicated that they expect to be able to present concentrate.
At North Mara we saw a small a detailed proposal for a possible solution to outflow of US$237 million.
increase in AISC to US$803 per ounce sold Acacia for review and approval during the first primarily driven by the lower production base half of 2018.
We are providing support to Barrick compared to the previous year.
At Bulyanhulu in its on-going discussions, and any proposal the impact of the lower sales and production that may be agreed in principle between Barrick base led to AISC per ounce sold being 30% and the GoT will require Acacias approval.
higher than 2016 at US$1,373 although this was partly offset by lower capitalised development costs and lower sustaining capital spend.
1 R efer to non-IFRS measures on page 171 for the definition of free cash flow.
6 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Relevant pages p62 Governance overview After leading significant change at For nearly 20 years the Acacia Acacia over the past four years, Group and its predecessors have Brad Gordon has stepped down from been a significant contributor to his position as CEO.
The Board is Tanzania: see the key milestones pleased to announce the appointment in our journey below: of Peter Geleta, as Interim CEO, effective as of 1 January 2018.
Barrick buys First gold North Mara Sutton Resources, production at Gold Mine Barrick buys owner of Bulyanhulu Bulyanhulu completes first North Mara deposit Gold Mine gold pour Gold Mine 1999 2001 2002 2006 African Barrick Launch of ABG lists Gold plc ABG listed Buzwagi Maendeleo Fund on the Dar-es-Salaam on the London Stock Gold Mine pours Stock Exchange Exchange first gold 2012 2011 2010 2009 The Acacia Groups total tax THE FUTURE ABG changes contribution Aiming to be the partner name to to Tanzania tops Acacia Mining plc of choice for many years US$1billion to come.
2014 2017 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 7 CEO STATEMENT CONTINUED Financial overview During the second quarter of 2017 two as well as a subsequent conflicting set of The positive operational performance was not Presidential Committees announced their adjusted assessments for PML which amount translated into positive cash flow due to our findings following investigations into the to US$3 billion and appear to relate to the inability to export and sell a total of 185,800 technical and economic aspects of the historic historical operation of the Tulawaka mine at ounces of gold, 12.1 million pounds of copper exports of gold copper concentrates.
Acacia which PML ceased operations in 2013.
The and 158,900 ounces of silver contained in has fully refuted the implausible findings of TRA has so far not provided its calculations or concentrate as a result of the concentrate both Committees, which claimed that the substantiation for the adjusted assessments, export ban.
This includes 10,678 ounces of Acacia Group and its predecessor companies and we are objecting to and defending these gold in concentrate produced in late 2016 but had historically and significantly under-declared through the Tanzanian tax appeals processes.
This heavily impacted our Bulyanhulu the contents of exports of concentrate.
Acacia The allegations made by the First and Second and Buzwagi mines which produced gold in both reiterates that the Group has declared Committees are included in the matters that dor and in concentrate form, while North Mara everything of commercial value that it has have already been referred to international sales were unaffected by the ban due to 100% produced since it started operating in Tanzania arbitration by BGML and PML.
In addition, the of its production being dor.
This, together with and has paid all appropriate royalties and taxes Company continues to dispute and defend in an increase in indirect tax receivables, meant on all of the payable minerals that it has accordance with Tanzanian law and procedure that we ended the year with US$81 million of produced.
We have requested copies of the the outstanding tax claims previously reported cash on our balance sheet, a decrease from reports of the two Presidential Committees as having been brought against it by the TRA, US$318 million on hand at the end of the and called for independent verification of the on the purported basis that Acacia itself has previous year.
Net cash also fell, but we results announced by the Committees, but established tax residence in Tanzania.
These continued to repay our CIL debt facility during to date we have not received a response to appeals remain the subject of the Tanzanian 2017 and saw debt balances fall to US$71 these requests.
Post year-end we In late June 2017, new legislation was proposed In July 2017, Barrick, Acacias majority completed the sale of a non-core royalty for which made significant changes to the legal shareholder, announced that it had US$45 million and this, together with the and regulatory framework governing the natural commenced discussions with the GoT aimed purchase of put options for a portion of future resources sector as a whole in Tanzania.
Post at identifying a possible solution to Acacias gold sales and strong cost discipline, will year-end new mining regulations were also disputes with the GoT.
The GoT informed provide additional support to our balance sheet.
issued which are currently being reviewed.
Prior Barrick that it wished to continue their Total revenue for the year amounted to to the legislation being passed into law in early dialogue, and therefore Acacia has not US$752 million which was 29% lower than July 2017, in order to protect the Company, participated directly in these discussions.
2016 as a result of the inability to sell gold, Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited BGML, the copper and silver contained in concentrate owner of the Bulyanhulu mine, and Pangea Timeline of events as set out above during the year.
The lack Minerals Limited PML, the owner of the of sales impacted EBITDA, which at US$257 Buzwagi mine, each commenced international MAR million was 38% below 2016.
Net earnings arbitrations against the GoT in accordance with The Tanzanian Ministry of Energy and were impacted by the lack of sales, but also the dispute resolution processes agreed by the Minerals announced a ban on the export by a post-tax non cash impairment charge GoT in the Mineral Development Agreements of metallic mineral concentrates.
The ban of US$644 million, primarily associated MDAs with BGML and PML.
These impacts the Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi mines with Bulyanhulu as a result of the increased arbitrations remain on-going.
Acacia continues which ordinarily produced a proportion uncertainty in our operating environment to monitor the impact of the new legislation of their gold in concentrate form.
During and the movement to reduced operations.
in light of the Groups MDAs with the GoT.
H1 2017, the last period of full production, This, together with an increase in our However, to minimise further disruptions to gold in concentrate accounted for 50% uncertain tax provision from US$128 million our operations, we have been, in the interim, of the combined Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi to US$300 million, drove a net loss of US$707 satisfying the requirements imposed by the new production.
North Mara is unaffected million.
Adjusted net earnings amounted to legislation as regards the increased royalty rate by the ban as it produces solely dor.
US$146 million which was 9% below 2016. applicable to metallic minerals such as gold, copper and silver of 6% increased from 4%, in addition to a new 1% clearing fee on mineral Operating environment exports.
These payments are being made under On 3 March 2017, the Ministry of Energy protest, without prejudice to our legal rights and Minerals of the Tanzanian Government under our MDAs.
announced a general ban on the export of metallic mineral concentrates following a In July, BGML and PML received adjusted tax directive made by the President of the United assessments from the Tanzanian Revenue Republic of Tanzania.
Following the directive, Authority TRA totalling US$190 billion for we immediately ceased all exports of our alleged unpaid taxes, interest and penalties, gold copper concentrate including the 277 apparently issued in respect of alleged and containers that had been approved for export disputed under-declared export revenues, and prior to the ban and which remain impounded appearing to follow on from the announced 50% in Dar es Salaam at either the port or a findings of the First and Second Presidential staging warehouse.
As mentioned above, the Committees.
Acacia refutes the findings of of combined production export ban impacts Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi each Committee, reiterates that it has fully at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi which ordinarily produced a proportion of their declared all revenues, and has requested impacted by concentrate ban.
gold in concentrate form due to the mineralogy copies of the reports of the Committees of the ore at those two mines.
North Mara and independent expert verification of their production and sales were unaffected by the findings.
We have requested the TRA to ban on export of concentrates due to 100% provide calculations and the necessary of its production being dor.
substantiation to support these assessments 8 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT In October 2017, Barrick and the GoT resolution.
Acacia is not directly involved in the In terms of developing Sustainable announced that they had agreed a framework on-going discussions, and awaits a detailed Communities around our mines, over the last proposing a new partnership between Acacia agreed proposal and documented final five years we have invested heavily in building and the GoT.
As announced by Barrick, the agreements for a comprehensive settlement, social infrastructure such as schools, roads, key terms of the proposal included that: the which will be reviewed by an Independent health and water facilities in close cooperation economic benefits generated by the Groups Committee of the Companys Directors.
In 2017 operations in Tanzania would be shared we began the implementation of the new Contribution to Tanzania between Acacia and the GoT on a 50 50 basis Sustainable Communities SC strategy Acacia continues to share the Government going forward, to be delivered in the form of which focuses on adding further value to this of Tanzanias goals of enhancing the countrys royalties, taxes and a 16% free carry interest physical infrastructure and contributing social and economic development and in 2017 in the operating mines: the establishment of positively to the development of a diversified contributed US$143 million in taxes and a new Tanzanian operating company to manage local economy in our zone of influence.
the mining operations, with GoT participation believe that the SC Strategy is aligned with in decision-making on certain issues: a number Since the inception of its businesses, over 15 Tanzanias national development agenda, of social licence to operate projects and years ago, the Group, and its predecessors, as well as the United Nations Sustainable commitments: there would be further work with have invested over US$4 billion into the Development Goals.
the GoT to advance concepts for increasing country to build and sustain our mines, spent During 2017 we delivered against many in-country beneficiation of gold: and Acacia over US$3 billion with Tanzanian suppliers of our legacy infrastructure commitments.
would make a US$300 million payment, staged to support the operation of our businesses, This included the completion and or initiation over time, in respect of outstanding tax claims invested over US$75 million into our of a number of projects at all three mines.
between the Group and the GoT.
communities and paid over US$1 billion in Projects included a US$500,000 upgrade of taxes and royalties.
We have also built a 60 Since October, Barrick and the GoT have the Bugarama Health Centre at Bulyanhulu kilometre water pipeline to supply clean water continued discussions aimed at agreeing and which supports healthcare for 58,000 people to communities around Bulyanhulu, invested documenting the details of the announced living in the 14 villages in Kakola and its US$45 million to provide electricity to framework, and Barrick have announced that surrounding areas.
The focus at Buzwagi has communities, built and renovated 57 schools they are targeting completion in H1 2018. been the construction of a new dormitory at in the Lake Zone whilst providing over 18,000 Acacia continues to support Barrick in its Mwendakulima Secondary School for female desks and building 129 teachers houses.
discussions with the Tanzanian Government pupils after the original dormitory was towards identifying a possible negotiated MAY JUL SEP THE FUTURE The first Presidential The Acacia Group received We announced our We are continuing Committee announced adjusted tax assessments intention to move to to support Barrick findings post investigations totalling US$190 billion for reduced operations at into mineral content of historic alleged unpaid taxes, interest Bulyanhulu mine and in its discussions exports of gold copper and penalties.
In the same brought forward processing with the Government concentrates which claim month Bulyanhulu Gold Mine changes at Buzwagi the Acacia Group has Limited and Pangea Minerals to solely produce dor of Tanzania towards under-declared the contents Limited Buzwagi commenced going forward.
identifying a possible of historic exports.
Acacia international arbitration to negotiated resolution fully refuted the implausible protect our position.
JUN OCT Acacia continues to believe that a negotiated A second Presidential John Thornton, Chairman of Barrick and the Government resolution is in the Committee announced Barrick, and the President of of Tanzania announced they best interests of all findings that alleged the Tanzania, Dr. John P. Magufuli, had agreed a framework Acacia Group undermet and agreed to enter for the resolution of the stakeholders and declared revenues and tax into discussions to reach disputes.
Barrick are targeting therefore is supporting payments over a number a resolution to the dispute.
H1 2018 to present an agreed the on-going discussions of years by tens of billions In the same month, new proposal to Acacia for review.
The findings legislation was proposed and were based on the first subsequently enacted which PETER GELETA Presidential Committee makes substantial changes INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER findings which Acacia to the legal framework governing fully refutes.
the natural resources sector in Tanzania.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 9 CEO STATEMENT CONTINUED This carrying value review demonstrates Reserves and Resources Remaining committed a potential reduction in value at all three Notwithstanding the performance of the gold operating assets, but Buzwagi and North Mara price in 2017 we have taken the decision to as we move forward, have sufficient headroom above their current maintain the 2016 gold price assumptions in carrying values.
At Bulyanhulu, however, the our Reserve and Resource calculations.
This we continue to operate impact of the changes was greater, due to the not only brings consistency of planning on an long life of the mine and the delay to a return annual basis but it also helps underpin the efficiently and remain to positive cash generation due to the move financial robustness of our long-term planning.
Acacia has therefore Our Reserve pricing is maintained at US$1,100 resolute in our recorded a net impairment of US$632 million per ounce and our resource pricing has been for Bulyanhulu, which includes a pre-tax maintained at US$1,400 per ounce.
commitment to write-down of US$122 million for goodwill.
On a Group basis, our overall Reserves and In addition we have recorded an impairment Tanzania and other Resources decreased slightly from 27.5 million charge of US$12 million for the Nyanzaga ounces Moz to 27.4Moz during the year Project to reflect the current estimate for the host countries.
with total Reserves marginally decreasing potential impact of the new mining laws on from 7.6Moz to 7.5Moz driven by depletion.
the carrying value of the project, which now stands at US$34 million.
At North Mara, Reserves increased by accidentally destroyed in a fire.
The new 438,000 ounces 23% from 1.9Moz in 2016 dormitory will accommodate more than In addition to the above net impairment, Acacia to 2.3Moz.
This was driven by successful drilling 100 pupils and make secondary education has also raised an additional tax provision programmes at the Gokona Underground where more accessible to girls.
At North Mara we of US$172 million relating to the estimated Reserves increased from 656,000 ounces constructed the Nyamwaga and Kerende uncertain tax positions for its operating at 6.0 g t to 1,338,000 ounces at 6.3 g t, Health Centres and invested in the companies, based on an estimate of the impact despite depletion of 188koz during the year.
Nyamwaga Keisangora water projects of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the This is the first step in demonstrating the designed to improve access to clean water.
key terms of the framework announcements.
long-term potential of the Gokona Underground.
This brings total provisions for Acacias Carrying value review and tax provision uncertain tax positions to US$300 million.
At Bulyanhulu, overall Reserves decreased Acacia has identified a number of potential Acacia continues to reserve and protect all by 417koz with the underground Reserve now triggers for impairment testing of the carrying its legal rights, as noted above and including amounting to 4.5Moz at 9.70 g t compared value of its assets, including, but not limited through the arbitrations commenced by BGML to 4.9Moz at 9.76 g t. The change included to, the challenges experienced in the operating and PML, and no liability has been incurred depletion of 223koz and a further reduction environment in Tanzania, the announcement by Acacia as a result of the framework of 199koz due to changes to the short and of new legislation by the GoT in respect of the announcements.
The additional provision medium-term designs.
A study completed on natural resources sector and the resulting is required, however, to meet applicable remnant mining around the Upper Reef 1 and decision to reduce operations at Bulyanhulu.
accounting standards requiring assessment Reef 2 areas indicated positive economics As a result, Acacia has undertaken a carrying of current obligations for accounting purposes and added 151koz to Reserves.
The Tailings value review of the Groups affected Cash based on an assessment of relevant cash Reserve decreased to 180koz ounces at 1.05 Generating Units CGUs.
outflows from the relevant operating companies g t due to depletion.
During 2018 we expect in respect of uncertain tax positions.
to review the mine reserves in the context Acacia considers that in accordance with of the optimisation study currently underway.
applicable accounting standards, carrying Safety values for the CGUs should be calculated by Safety performance during 2017 At Buzwagi, Reserves declined due to reference to the key terms of the framework demonstrated significant progress on the depletion as the final stage of the open pit announcements made by Barrick and by the previous year.
We recorded a Group-wide was effectively completed.
However, during GoT in October 2017 and discussed above, with Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate 2017, the run-of-mine stockpile, which will be additional discounting to reflect the uncertainty TRIFR of 0.45 compared to 0.74 in 2016, processed over the next three years, increased around the final terms of any comprehensive a 39% improvement.
The number of Lost Time by 5 million tonnes with a 48% increase in settlement that might be reached.
While Acacia Injuries LTI decreased from 32 in 2016 contained gold to 414koz ounces, albeit at continues to provide support to Barrick in its to 18 in 2017, a 44% improvement, and the lower grades of 0.91g t. discussions with the GoT, Acacia has not yet injury severity rate decreased by 35%.
We At our exploration properties overall resources received for review and approval a detailed also progressed a number of initiatives within remained flat with the addition of resources proposal that has been agreed between Barrick an occupational health and safety context in Kenya being offset by the removal of the and the GoT, and no conclusions can be made to increase the effectiveness of existing Golden Ridge project from resource and a by Acacia as to whether any particular terms occupational health programmes and reduction in resource at Nyanzaga.
We of settlement would be approved by Acacia.
continued to progress health assessments, updated the Maiden Inferred Mineral Resource In the meantime, Acacia continues to reserve including malaria control assessments, for declared in February 2017 after completing its rights included under the Groups Mineral our employees and wider community base.
a significant exploration drilling programme Development Agreements, the disputes The total number of malaria cases and the during the year at the Liranda Project in Kenya.
between Acacia and the GoT have not yet days lost due to malaria decreased by 29% The updated model showed that the Isulu been resolved, and PML and BGML remain in and 51% respectively during 2017.
Inferred Resource has changed with additional international arbitration with the GoT.
Acacia drilling confirming structural complexity.
The would prefer a negotiated resolution, but enhanced modelling of the Isulu resource has believes that there remain a range of potential upgraded confidence and increased grade.
outcomes to the current situation.
Additionally, the upper parts of two zones in 10 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT the Bushiangala Prospect were upgraded At North Mara we expect production to be expected to drop significantly resulting in from mineral inventory to an Inferred Resource broadly in line with 2017 at approximately production for the year being approximately Estimate.
The updated Inferred Resource 325,000 ounces as the continued increase 100,000 ounces.
As a result of the lower Estimate returned 2.5 million tonnes at 12.9 in production from the Gokona Underground production and release of non-cash high g t Au for 1.044 million ounces at Isulu and is offset by lower open pit tonnes and grade cost inventory of approximately US$200 per for Bushiangala 374,600 tonnes at 10.5 g t as the Nyabirama Stage 3 open pit is ounce, reported AISC is due to increase to Au for 126,600 ounces for a project total of completed and all ore is sourced from the approximately US$1,100 per ounce sold, 2.9 million tonnes at 12.6 g t for 1.2Moz.
beginning of the Stage 4 pit.
AISC is expected although we are looking to optimise the cost to be approximately US$850 per ounce, profile as we transition to stockpile processing.
Outlook approximately 5% higher than 2017, driven by The Group has successfully managed through As a result of reduced operations at Bulyanhulu an increase in cash costs due to the increased a challenging environment to deliver a year we expect to see Group capital expenditure in mining activity and increased allocation of of resilient operational performance in 2017.
2018 fall to approximately US$100 million.
This corporate shared services costs.
During 2018 As a result of Bulyanhulus transition to is comprised of approximately US$50 million we will continue to progress the drilling reduced operations and the planned transition of capitalised development stripping at North programmes at Gokona, which led to a of Buzwagi to a stockpile processing operation Mara, US$35 million of sustaining capital, doubling of underground reserves in 2017 to in 2018 we expect to see a step-down in primarily at North Mara, and US$15 million of 1.3Moz at a grade of 6.3 g t. At Nyabirama production from 2017 levels to 435,000- expansion capital, made up predominantly of we are also progressing the permitting for an 475,000 ounces at increased all-in sustaining investment in the process plant at Bulyanhulu underground exploration decline: this process cost of US$935-985 per ounce.
Cash costs and capitalised drilling at North Mara as we is expected to be completed in 2018. per ounce are also expected to increase to look to delineate additional resources to between US$690-720 per ounce in 2018.
At Bulyanhulu we completed the transition support a 10 year life of mine producing in Group AISC and cash costs are both negatively to reduced operations in the fourth quarter, excess of 300,000 ounces per annum.
impacted by approximately US$50 per ounce which regrettably led to the retrenchment We are committed to strong cost discipline due to the release of non-cash high cost of the majority of the workforce at the mine.
and are continuing to take steps to ensure the inventory at Buzwagi as we process ore In total, the retrenchments, together with the long-term viability of our business whilst we stockpiles previously classified as ore cancellation of supply contracts, led to a cost await an outcome of the discussions between inventory.
We expect production to be broadly of US$25 million, with US$20 million incurred Barrick and the Government of Tanzania.
flat through the year although due to the in Q4 2017 and the balance due to be incurred During 2017 we made significant decisions at roll-over of cost from the movement to reduced in Q1 2018.
In addition, we saw an outflow both the Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi operations operations at Bulyanhulu into Q1 2018 we of accounts payable of approximately US$35 and we should now be able to sell all of the expect increased cash flow in the second half million, of which US$5 million is expected to gold we produce going forward.
All gold produced in 2018 is be incurred in Q1 2018.
Whilst the mine is to take steps to protect the balance sheet expected to be in dor form.
on reduced operations, at a monthly cost of including a reduction in planned greenfield approximately US$3 million, we are taking exploration spend in 2018 to US$15 million, the opportunity to progress essential capital and whilst we currently anticipate corporate spend of approximately US$10 million, overheads being in line with 2017, we are We delivered primarily on the process plant, together with targeting reducing this spend during the year.
an optimisation study which is designed to resilient operational ensure that when the mine restarts it does so in an optimised manner.
These costs are performance during excluded from AISC on the principle that they Finally, I would like to thank all of my are not representative of operational costs.
colleagues for their commitment, resilience a challenging 2017, The study is expected to take until H2 2018 and continued focus during what has been to be completed and as a result we do not a challenging year.
I would also like to thank with full year gold expect the underground mine to restart our Board for their support.
We continue to in 2018 and are targeting a phased restart prefer a negotiated solution to our disputes production of 767,883 through 2019, assuming the concentrate with the Government of Tanzania, continue ban is resolved during 2018.
The mine will to support Barrick in its discussions with ounces at all-in continue with the re-processing of tailings the Government, and remain hopeful for through 2018 at an annual production rate of a resolution during 2018. sustaining costs approximately 30,000 ounces and an AISC of approximately US$1,000 per ounce, which will AISC of US$875 partially offset the cost of reduced operations.
As previously guided, Buzwagi is transitioning per ounce.
to a stockpile processing operation in 2018 as a result of the effective completion of the open PETER GELETA pit and will see a step down in production as INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER a result.
During 2017 the mine exceeded its production plan by 15,000 ounces whilst delivering over 5 million tonnes of ore to the stockpile, albeit at lower grades.
As a result expected life of mine production has increased by approximately 100,000 ounces.
In 2018, mill feed will be almost exclusively from the stockpiles and as a result head grades are ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 11
