Chief Executive Officers review Connecting Customers to the restaurants they want However, the extraordinary culture of Just Eat, Read our financial I was delighted to join the statements on the quality and resilience of the team and pages90 to 94 JustEat team in September.
outstanding stewardship of Chief Financial Officer, Paul Harrison, throughout this period Itis a real privilege to lead such meant that Just Eat continued to thrive.
a high growth, global company Over the period, the business processed 172.4million orders, up 26% from 21.5 million at an exciting time both for Active Customers, via 82,300 Restaurant Partners thebusiness and our sector.
"This resulted in total revenue of 546.3million, up 45% and Underlying EBITDA Since joining Just Eat, I have spent time with ""uEBITDA"" of 163.5million, up 42%."
However, ourenergised colleagues and met many of our a loss before tax of 76.0 million was due to a Customers and Restaurant Partners, listening non-cash impairment charge relating to our closely to their views on what the Group is doing Australia & New Zealand businesses, which right and how we can improve.
The primary causes of huge amount through this process and been the impairment were: the instability of the two inspired by what I have heard.
legacy platforms: being behind plan with the Having grown and led a marketplace business platform migration and brand consolidation: and before, my initial focus has been to fully understand the impact on the business from a new competitor the value we are able to offer our different that rapidly launched delivery services in key consumers, being Customers who buy their food cities such as Sydney and Melbourne.
through us and Restaurant Partners who rely onour service to grow orders and run a better, Just Eats global footprint is a key strength more profitable business.
A winning marketplace The bedrock of our business model is offering demands that our value proposition to these Customers the widest possible range of important constituencies remains a restless restaurants and the best possible ordering ambition for everyone at Just Eat.
As well-financed, experience in every market where we operate.
new operators enter the market with innovative Each country has different characteristics, services and platforms, and as Customer providing significant opportunities to apply behaviour and restaurant expectations learnings across the Group.
evolve, this is truer than ever before.
We grew our restaurant estate by 20% during the year, and it was pleasing to see particular Key highlights and learnings from 2017 growth in countries such as Italy, where Just Eat 2017 was a year of great change and achievement is now available in over 700 towns and cities for Just Eat.
There were significant changes in from Sicily to the Alps.
the Companys leadership, with David Buttress stepping back from the position of Chief Executive Our Customer base also grew strongly, with an Officer and the sad loss of ourlong-standing additional 3.9 million people using the platform Chairman, John Hughes.
in 2017, bringing the total to 21.5 million Active Customers.
Spain, France and Italy, in particular, attracted an impressive number of new Customers to their high growth businesses.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 10 Strategic report Increased brand investment continued tobuildCustomer awareness Just Eat has enviable brand power, particularly in its home market of the UK.
With an increased brand investment in 2017 to 23 million, the team rolled out Just Eats new high impact identity colour ray across the majority of our countries, increasing awareness amongst the mass market customer base.
2017 was not only about global brand power butalso local connections and engagement.
InIreland, the Just Eat team pioneered the sponsorship of the Dublin bike scheme and in Switzerland we sponsored the Geneva tramway service just two examples of the creativity ofour local country teams.
In the UK, we proudly sponsored The X Factor, which caught the imagination of our Customers and brilliantly captured the talent of our local Our marketing strategy restaurant owners and staff, some of whom In 2017, the global marketing strategy continued were featured in the show's advertising breaks.
to drive brand fame and targeted those consumer Our brands need to be loved and the nature segments who still order their takeaway using the ofthe service is that we are available and used telephone.
Our brand spend of 23 million was pretty much everywhere our Customers go.
supported by our entrepreneurial country teams These innovative marketing initiatives help investing in local high profile projects including usbe just that, part of everyones daily lives Dublin bikes and the Geneva and Milan trams.
when and where they need us.
In the UK, we were proud sponsors of The X Factor, helping drive up our awareness levels to new Just Eat provides an easy, convenient way highs.
Our sponsorship activity featured many toenjoy a much loved takeaway ofour Restaurant Partners, the true local heroes Our Customers have different reasons for of our business.
ordering a takeaway, but I hear a number of themes being repeated.
We call it treat night, We finished the year with nine markets featuring Ijust dont want to worry about the shopping our new brand identity, driving an increase in and cooking, Its a chance for us to bond after brand awareness.
In January 2018, we renamed areally busy week and Im home alone with our French business to Just Eat from Allo Resto nobody around its nice to have a takeaway.
to better reflect our appfocused strategy.
The majority of these Customers are 1834-year olds who live their lives on their smartphone.
One of the most vital services we provide to our small, family run Restaurant Partners is digital expertise.
Our value-add to these entrepreneurs is to give every one of them a high impact online presence at a scale they couldnt possibly do on their own.
This is the true power of the Just Eat marketplace, connecting the right restaurants to the right customers, at the right time, on the right device.
com 11 Chief Executive Officers review continued Read more about Just Eat provides an easy, convenient way SkipTheDishes, the Canadian business we our People on toenjoy a much loved takeaway continued acquired in late 2016, is already a sophisticated page38 The opportunity to make more of these delivery business, harnessing machine learning connections is significant.
In the markets where technology to predict demand for both couriers we operate today, we estimate that there are and restaurants with increasing accuracy across still more than 30 million people who are yet Canada.
The results so far are impressive and, as toorder a takeaway online with us.
For those a result, Canada has become the second largest who already use Just Eat, we want to continue business in the Group by revenue.
improving their experience by personalising our We have been undertaking further trials with service, which will build brand loyalty.
We have third parties in other markets, where we have already had some success here: last year, we been varying the nature of the model to take applied learnings from Ireland to grow order into account local characteristics.
We have frequency in Switzerland by 25%.
Whilst such learned a significant amount through this period improvements are gratifying, Ibelieve there is as we seek to adopt the most sustainable and more we can do.
profitable route to use delivery to complement our core marketplace model of connecting local Our People are special and the team is growing fast restaurants to their local communities.
I had high expectations of the Just Eat culture when I joined the business.
Having now settled Our strategy in 2018 and beyond in to my role and experienced my first World Party, As a new CEO, what excites me most is where we attended by 1,100 Just Eaters from around the are heading.
world, I have not been disappointed.
The passion The global takeaway market is worth 540 billion: and energy in this Company is inspiring.
those markets in which we operate are alone Last year, more than 900 talented people joined worth 23 billion.
This is testament to peoples Just Eat, building our team to over 2,900, and love of takeaway and the vast choice of restaurants wehave made great efforts to ensure Just Eat and cuisines available to them.
It is clearly an isan even better place to work, with refurbished exciting industry.
offices, new online training and development tools, and a more balanced benefits package But with our success, competitors have of course forour colleagues.
followed and are starting to change the game.
These investments are clearly resonating with Therefore, three key themes are front of mind as we lay down our plans for the next three years: our team.
Marketplace: Digest our acquisitions and Delivery trials are investments in our future innovate to go faster.
Just Eat has been the pioneering company in 2.
Delivery: Engineered to complement not oursector, effectively creating the market for restaurants to connect with Customers online replace the marketplace.
and then growing it for nearly two decades.
O rganisation: A world-class digitally led However, as the industry evolves, and shifts in global team, supporting extraordinary local society and technology change how people live Customer experts.
their lives, 2017 was a year when we started to Marketplace: We have 21.5 million Active test and learn new concepts.
We began trials toextend our model to provide delivery services Customers who love our marketplace service.
"There are certainly many geographies, regions tocertain Quick Service Restaurant ""QSR"" chains, offering a three-sided marketplace and most importantly Customers for whom our existing marketplace model is the perfect where we believe there is real economic value to be derived."
service and will remain sofor years to come.
However, we know we canmake our current Denmark, our most mature business, expanded service so much better.
Weare in the early days the Just Delivery service to six key cities, of integrating our businesses into one high addingseven new restaurant chains to our performing, efficient Group.
Itnow represents around 6% of orders in the country and is proving to be both highly popular with Customers and profitable for our Danish business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 12 Pull out to be supplied Our technology and data investment programmes are in their first phases and our brands have much further to climb if we are tobecome a loved part of each and every one ofour Customers lives.
Apps, data, customer service and Restaurant Services will certainly beon my list for continued investment and innovation in the years ahead.
Delivery: From what we have seen, we believe itis possible to establish delivery models that can be both viable and profitable in the longer term.
In order to meet the needs ofcertain Customers, they are necessary.
Engineering sucha service we estimate would open up an additional 18billion market of QSR chains to the Group.
Clearly itisamarket we would be foolish to ignore in ourstrategic planning.
The expertise of our SkipTheDishes team will be invaluable as we explore taking their model to new markets around the world.
Organisation: We have a great team with an extraordinary culture.
Our local teams have close relationships with Customers and Restaurant Partners that make all the Our restaurant technology difference between ourselves and our competitors.
To continue to add value to our Restaurant Partners we need Orderpad is our exclusive restaurant technology to be world class in the digital market and forensically platform that enables our Restaurant Partners to focused on Customers both in our service offering and our receive Just Eat orders, to manage their online marketing tools.
This will open more exciting career paths presence and communicate with Customers for all who work for us.
It also provides the restaurant with order management and driver So, our mission is to lead the industry by pioneering a unique tracking functionality.
and engaging hybrid offering for our Customers in the geographies where delivery will complement our successful In 2017 we continued the international rollout of marketplace model and not just replace it.
We will think hard Orderpad, finishing the year with 23,300 devices before going head-first intopure delivery-only territories deployed in the UK, Canada, Denmark, Ireland, Italy and redouble ourefforts to ensure our heartland marketplace and Spain.
At the end of the year, 69% of orders in service both sets the standards and exceeds the expectations those markets were being processed through an of our Customers andRestaurant Partners.
Orderpad and 67% of those had order on its way messages sent to the Customer.
Strategic investment will therefore need to increase.
It will be focused on driving long-term order growth and earning We will accelerate the rollout of Orderpads in 2018.
Customer loyalty for the Group across our markets, based on what our core mass market of takeaway Customers around the world tell us they want and need.
I look forward to sharing more of what I have learned and the growth plans we have developed.
Pages 2 to 43 of the Annual Report form the StrategicReport.
On behalf of the Board Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer 5 March 2018 www.
