Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 06 Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review Underlying revenue m Warren East Chief Executive 15,090m 15,090 2017 2016 13,783 Underlying operating profit m 1,175m 1,175 2017 2016 915 Free cash flow m 273m 273 2017 2016 100 Review of 2017 Overview Rolls-Royce made good progress in 2017, achieving a number of important operational and technological milestones.
Results were ahead of our expectations as we delivered growth in underlying revenue, underlying operating profit and free cash flow.
This was achieved while focusing on managing the well-publicised in-service fleet issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 engines that led to increased costs as efforts were made to minimise the disruptive impact on our customers and to develop longer-term solutions.
There was better understanding across the business of the need for cultural Rolls-Royce made good progress in 2017, achieving change and tangible progress in our efforts a number of important operational and technological to increase openness and transparency with investors.
We strengthened the executive milestones, while focusing on managing significant leadership team ELT as we continued to drive cultural change across the Group.
in-service engine issues in Civil Aerospace.
Looking We completed our strategic update and forward, sustaining this improvement and delivering are ready to move forward in our drive for pace and simplicity, restructuring from increasing cash flow generation will strengthen our five to three businesses, with a review of strategic options for our commercial position as one of the worlds leading industrial marine operation.
Civil Aerospace had some notable successes in 2017 with record levels of large engine deliveries, further expanding the installed fleet and generating service revenue growth.
We made good progress with our new large engine programmes, achieving the first flight of three new engine designs within a 12-month period.
Power Systems delivered a strong performance in its first year with new leadership, streamlining the product portfolio and STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 07 Chief Executives Review making new inroads into the Chinese market.
Defence Aerospace had another solid 2017 priorities year as we renewed a number of core US contracts and further developed our service Strengthen Sustain Rebuild Develop delivery capability.
We delivered operational our focus on the strong trust and our long-term improvements in Nuclear, while in Marine we engineering, start to our confidence vision and established leadership in ship intelligence operational and transformation in our long-term strategy and autonomous shipping.
We also received aftermarket programme growth prospects regulatory approval for the acquisition of ITP excellence Aero which was completed on 19 December 2017 see page 9.
The Group faced several challenges in the Operational excellence a new operating year.
These are not unusual given the nature 2017 priorities strategy was developed and we invested of the industries in which we operate.
In Civil At the beginning of the year we set out a further 764m in capital expenditure Aerospace, production milestones were four key priorities: in 2017.
Capitalising on the rapidly achieved against a backdrop of capacity advancing digital techniques, our aim is constraints, primarily blade manufacturing to create an agile, highly productive and and test bed availability, driven by the Priority 1: Strengthen our focus cost-competitive manufacturing footprint.
in-service fleet issues on the Trent 1000 on engineering, operational and Our new plants have already undergone and Trent 900.
As these emerged during aftermarket excellence a digital transformation generating an the year, we increased our estimates of Engineering excellence our central unprecedented insight into our value additional maintenance activity required engineering function was restructured to chain capability.
We are also developing to mitigate problems, to develop longer-term integrate engineering into the businesses industry-leading capabilities in digital solutions and to support customers through closer to our customers.
At the same time, manufacturing, through innovative a proactive engine management programme we have created a new technology team collaboration and partnerships, which will to minimise any disruption.
In Marine, with led by the Chief Technology Officer to lead to double-digit benefits in productivity the average Brent crude oil price remaining heighten the importance of technology and efficiency.
All our businesses had below US$55 per barrel for the third in driving future growth see pages significant execution targets and product consecutive year, our commercial marine 42 and 43.
We invested over 1bn in delivery milestones to achieve.
Civil operation continued to see substantially self-funded R&D in 2017, part of which Aerospace delivered a 35% increase in reduced activity levels in its historically supported the installation of digital large engine deliveries.
In Defence important offshore market.
engineering tools, producing our first Aerospace, the modernisation programme all-digital engine design.
Efficiencies from the 2015 transformation at the Indianapolis facility progressed well programme have achieved run-rate cost and is on track with its cost saving targets.
savings at the top end of our initial In Power Systems, the new leadership The Trent XWB-84 achieved expectations of 200m by the end of 2017. focused the business on simplifying the However, costs and complexity within product portfolio, achieving around a 20% over 1.2 million flying hours the Group remain too high.
The further year-on-year reduction in product variants.
simplification announced in January 2018 with unprecedented levels Aftermarket excellence service focus is to move from five to three operating driven by customer demand for reliability businesses will enable us to act with greater of reliability.
This has seen aftermarket pace, to innovate in core technologies support transition from the sale of spare and to better take advantage of future In Civil Aerospace, while we worked to products to a partnership with customers opportunities in areas such as electrification minimise the impact of in-service issues, based on predictive maintenance and and digitalisation.
It will help us to undertake key milestones were achieved towards proactive management of in-service issues.
a more fundamental restructuring to entry into service for the new In 2017, the Civil Aerospace team worked remove duplicated support and Trent 1000 TEN, Trent XWB-97 and hard to minimise customer disruption from management functions.
Testing of our new power in-service fleet issues with our Trent 1000 Within the Group, we appreciate our talk gearbox design, a vital component in our and Trent 900 engines and to develop of simplification must translate into greater new UltraFan demonstrator programme, longer-term solutions.
Concurrently, the enablement for our people if we are to has proceeded well and the Advance3 Trent XWB-84 achieved over 1.2 million succeed in bringing about lasting change.
demonstrator achieved its first successful flying hours with unprecedented levels These efforts must begin with our leaders ground test.
Electrification will play an of reliability.
In Defence Aerospace, we and during the year I brought in additional increasingly important role in all areas of opened a further two dedicated service talent and experience to the ELT with the the Group over the coming years and during delivery centres SDCs to support the appointment of Stephen Daintith as Chief the year we established a new electrical unit.
RAF and the Indian Air Force, accelerating Financial Officer, Paul Stein as Chief In November 2017, we announced that decision-making on engine issues to Technology Officer and Simon Kirby as we will develop the E-Fan X hybrid electric maximise availability.
Power Systems also Chief Operating Officer.
In early 2018, we aircraft demonstrator in collaboration opened customer care centres in key time announced Chris Cholerton would be taking with Airbus and Siemens: reflecting the zones, replicating the TotalCare service up the post of President Civil Aerospace, growing importance of electrification developed in Civil and Defence Aerospace.
Tom Bell would be returning to Rolls-Royce to the long-term future of the Power Systems first availability contract as President Defence and Harry Holt took aerospace industry.
commenced in 2017 with Hitachi Rail to run up the post of Group HR Director.
Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 08 Chief Executives Review for over 20 years, covering support for the Priority 3: Rebuild trust and Priority 4: Develop our UKs intercity programme.
Looking forward, confidence in our long-term long-term vision and strategy a focus on lifecycle costs coupled with the Refreshed vision and strategy for growth prospects delivery of more digitally enabled engines Rolls-Royce we completed our strategic Greater financial transparency through and systems should support further growth update in the year and in early January further clarity on cash drivers and in proactive service management offerings 2018 we announced a simplification from revenue as outlined at our half-year 2017 at Power Systems.
five to three businesses and a review results, our focus is on sustaining stronger of strategic options for our commercial cash generation.
A stronger finance team, Priority 2: Sustain the strong start marine operation.
This simplification led by Stephen Daintith, is bringing greater aligns our business more closely with our to our transformation programme financial transparency and clarity both customers and with our strategic vision On-target delivery of transformation internally and for our investors.
In 2018, to pioneer cutting-edge technologies benefits since November 2015, we have we plan to introduce new KPIs to align that deliver the cleanest, safest and most been pursuing a transformation programme with our refined long-term performance competitive solutions to meet our planets focused on simplifying the organisation, objectives and reflect our focus on free vital power needs.
streamlining management, reducing cash flow as a fundamental indicator of fixed costs and adding greater pace performance.
See page 17 for more details.
Our ambition is to be the worlds leading and accountability to decision-making.
We will On adopting the new revenue reporting The benefits are on-target, having achieved continue to innovate in our core areas standard IFRS 15, introduced from 1 January run-rate cost savings at the top end of while looking to champion electrification 2018, we have selected accounting policies our initial expectations of 200m by the to support the move to a low carbon global that provide clarity and transparency of end of 2017. economy.
Our digital tools and technologies our revenue and profit see page 55. will allow us to create new insights and On page 170 we have taken the opportunity opportunities across our businesses.
to proactively present our 2017 financial The simplification of the Group enables results as they would look under the new us to focus our capital allocation reporting standard.
on projects that support our strategy.
Further details on our vision and strategy can be found on page 11.
Simplification of the business based on 2017 revenue Existing five operating businesses Civil Power Defence Nuclear Marine Aerospace Systems Aerospace 0.8bn 1.1bn 8.0bn 2.9bn 2.3bn Civil Naval Commercial Nuclear Submarines Marine Marine 0.2bn 0.6bn 0.3bn 0.8bn New core business units Operation Civil Power subject to Defence Aerospace Systems a review of 3.2bn strategic 8.0bn 3.1bn options Following the acquisition of ITP Aero in December 2017, it will operate and report as a separate business unit.
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 09 Chief Executives Review 2018 priorities and outlook 2018 priorities Our people worked hard in 2017 but more remains to be done.
Our goal is to make Customers Technology Resilience Financial progress 2018 a breakthrough year in terms of mitigate impact to focus through through delivering strategic, operational and financial goals.
rectify in-service product adaptability with improving free issues, ramp up digitalisation, a spotlight on cash flow, The simplification of our operating large engine electrification safety, diversity & strengthening businesses into three focused units will production, and revitalisation inclusion, and the balance sheet, enable the Group to operate at greater grow service highest ethical more disciplined pace.
We must also address the cost capabilities standards capital allocation and complexity of the Group in order to improve the service we offer customers and our financial returns.
I am confident that with the right management team now the KPIs that underpin a more disciplined service products.
The fundamental in place, a simplified business structure approach to capital allocation.
While Group restructuring announced in January 2018 and steps being taken to improve our underlying revenue and profit before shows our willingness to take decisive processes, we will make further meaningful financing will be impacted by the adoption action now in order to secure and enhance progress in meeting our strategic, of IFRS 15, free cash flow is unaffected the long-term benefit of the cash flows that operational and financial goals in 2018. by accounting changes and is expected will be generated over the years to come.
Our largest business, Civil Aerospace, to increase significantly from 2017 levels.
We must become a more agile and will continue to focus on increasing engine adaptable organisation.
deliveries and working with customers to minimise the impact of in-service engine Our aim is for our people to have a shared Longer-term outlook issues.
Across the Group there will be new vision while being empowered to act product introductions and continued R&D Our longer-term outlook remains strong responsively.
This will support us as we investment and capital expenditure to and we believe in the transformative look to develop innovative power expertise, revitalise current products and innovate potential of our technology.
The new digital solutions and advances in new technologies.
We will also look to progressive roll-out of our original electrification that will enable Rolls-Royce report progress on the strategic review equipment into markets with long-term technology to lead the world into a low of our commercial marine operation.
underlying growth will increase our carbon future.
This fundamental restructuring, combined installed base over the next ten years.
with improving cash flow, will strengthen This, in turn, will drive significant free cash our balance sheet and we will communicate flow as we increase penetration of our ITP AERO BECOMES A ROLLS-ROYCE COMPANY In late 2017, Rolls-Royce received approval from the Spanish Government for the acquisition of the 53.1% stake in ITP Aero owned by our partner in the business, SENER.
Having taken full ownership of the company, ITP Aero is now a separate business unit within Rolls-Royce.
ITP Aero will retain organisational autonomy allowing it to continue serving other original equipment manufacturers OEM as customers, while meeting our governance and compliance standards.
Based in Bilbao, Spain, ITP Aero is an aero-engine component designer and manufacturer that offers products and services across the widebody, single-aisle, regional, corporate and defence aviation markets.
It has worked with Rolls-Royce as a risk and revenue sharing partner on all members of the Trent engine family, manufacturing low pressure turbines, and is an important partner on the UltraFan engine development programme.
ITP Aero also provides essential aerospace products and services to a number of important customers outside of Rolls-Royce.
ITP Aero is a partner in the main European Defence aviation consortia and is the Spanish Defence aeronautical engine reference company, supporting existing and future programmes as well as providing in-service support to the Spanish fleet.
