Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Group Chief Executive Officers Review Our major markets are the UK, France, Canada, Poland, Ireland, Italy, Singapore and Aviva Investors.
These markets have structural Group drivers of demand underpinned by economic growth, demographics and regulation.
Within these markets, Aviva has Chief Executive competitive strength in distribution, brand, capability and scale efficiency that allows us to deliver consistent growth and attractive Officers Review returns.
The major markets are currently responsible for virtually all 3 1 of Avivas Group adjusted operating profit and cash remittances.
Our strategic investments are businesses where we are targeting long-term growth by working with leading local partners in populous countries with strong growth characteristics.
Our strategic investment markets are China, Hong Kong, India, Turkey, Overview Vietnam and Indonesia.
While in aggregate these businesses make a In 2017, Aviva delivered growth: in profits, in dividends, in capital modest contribution to Avivas financial performance today, they and in cash.
are sources of long-term upside for Group adjusted operating Our headline results show broad-based growth.
Operating 3 profit, cash-flow and value.
1,2 earnings per share EPS gained 7% to 54.8 pence 2016: 51.1 Avivas capital strength provides us with significant flexibility in 1 pence, operating capital generation remained strong at 2.6 billion 1,4 terms of future capital allocation.
Our Solvency II capital surplus 1,4 2016: 3.5 billion, Solvency II capital surplus rose to 12.2 billion 1,4 of 12.2 billion equates to a Solvency II cover ratio of 198%, well 1 2016: 11.3 billion and business unit cash remittances increased above our 150% to 180% working range.
As a result, we have 33% to 2.4 billion 2016: 1.8 billion.
signalled plans to deploy 3 billion of excess cash in 2018 and 2019.
3 Group adjusted operating profit increased 2% to 3,068 million Our priorities for deployment remain unchanged.
Excluding the impact of divestments, our eight is to use surplus cash to deliver sustainable benefits to our longmajor markets delivered a 6% increase in Group adjusted operating term shareholders.
For 2018, we have outlined our intent to repay 3 profit, with double-digit growth contributed by the UK, Aviva approximately 900 million of expensive hybrid debt, saving more Investors, France, Poland, Ireland and Singapore.
Group adjusted than 60 million in annual pre-tax interest expense.
We have 3 operating profits also benefitted from a net positive impact from allocated approximately 600 million for bolt-on M&A, which assumption changes in the UK.
However, Canada reported a includes the 130 million already committed to the Friends First disappointing result reflecting adverse changes in prior year reserve acquisition in Ireland.
And we have indicated that in excess of 500 development and higher current year claims inflation.
We have million will be used for capital returns, which may include liability implemented a detailed recovery plan in Canada, raising premium management, share buy-back or special dividends.
rates and taking actions on underwriting, claims, distribution and expense management.
Meeting our customers needs In light of our results, we have increased our total dividend 18% Aviva has made significant, tangible progress in delivering our True to 27.4 pence 2016: 23.3 pence.
This marks the fourth consecutive Customer Composite strategy in 2017. year of double-digit growth in the total dividend and we have In the UK, Aviva is unique as the only large-scale composite 1,2 reached our target of paying out 50% of operating EPS.
insurer with top three positions across multiple product lines.
In Having successfully executed our plan to strengthen the 2017, we moved to a unified management structure for our life, balance sheet and focus Aviva on those businesses with the general and health insurance businesses under the leadership of strongest fundamentals, we have increased our growth ambitions.
This change has helped us to increase the Our 2017 results provide evidence that we are capable of delivering collaboration between different product teams and improve our 1,2 consistent growth in operating EPS and dividends.
The strength of our franchises is evident, with large mandate wins driving higher new business volumes Capital allocation across our major product segments.
We saw continued success in A key element of Avivas strategy is allocating capital towards our partnership channels, expanding our leading position in the businesses and segments with the strongest returns and growth bank market and delivering a significant uplift in net flows into our prospects.
We made further progress on this strategic objective in advisor platform.
Meanwhile, we made further strong progress in 2017, announcing divestments that will result in our withdrawal our direct to consumer business, growing net written premiums by from Spain, Taiwan and Friends Provident International.
14% and we increased the number of customers in the UK who have We have significantly simplified and focussed our geographic more than one product with Aviva by approximately 300,000. footprint over recent years, halving the number of markets in which we have operations.
This process is now complete and we are no longer actively seeking to reduce our geographic footprint.
As a result, Avivas core business is now comprised of eight major markets and six strategic investments.
1 This is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
Further information on APMs, including a reconciliation to the financial statements where possible, can be found in the Other Information section of the Annual report and accounts.
2 This measure is derived from the Group adjusted operating profit APM.
Further details of this measure are included in the Other information section.
3 Group adjusted operating profit is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which is used by the Group to supplement the required disclosures under IFRS.
Please refer to note B in the Accounting Policies section and to the Other Information section within the Annual report and accounts for further information.
4 The estimated Solvency II position represents the shareholder view.
This excludes the contribution to Group Solvency Capital Requirement SCR and Group Own Funds of fully ring fenced with-profits funds of 3.3 billion 2016: 2.9 billion and staff pension schemes in surplus of 1.5 billion 2016: 1.1 billion.
These exclusions have no impact on Solvency II surplus.
The estimated Solvency II position includes the pro forma impacts of the disposals of Friends Provident International Limited 0.1 billion increase to surplus and the Italian Avipop Assicurazioni S. p. A 0.1 billion increase to surplus.
The 31 December 2016 Solvency II position included pro forma adjustments for the impact of the announced disposal of Antarius and the future impact of changes to UK tax rules announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequers Autumn statement, which was removed following clarification in the 13 July 2017 Finance Bill.
The 31 December 2016 Solvency II position also includes an adverse impact of a notional reset of the transitional provisions TMTP to reflect interest rates at 31 December 2016 0.4 billion decrease to surplus.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 02 S St tra rate tegi gic repor c report t G Go overn vernan ance ce IF IFRS RS f fi in na an nc cia ial l st sta at temen ement ts s O Ot ther in her inf fo orma rmat tio ion n Group Chief Executive Officers Review Continued Our strength in distribution and manufacturing is also helping to strengthen our composite position in markets outside the UK.
In France, our new leadership team intends to align our high quality distribution franchises under a single Aviva brand to deepen customer relationships.
In Ireland, we have maintained positive momentum in both sales volume and Group adjusted operating 3 profit in 2017 and the acquisition of Friends First will move our market share to mid-teens across both life and general insurance.
Italy has expanded IFA distribution and developed innovative hybrid products, which helped to underpin a doubling of value of new business and strong net fund flows.
Singapore is drawing on our digital and distribution expertise to develop the Aviva Financial Advisors network, which has grown to more than 670 advisors.
Digital Aviva is playing a leading role in the digital revolution of insurance and our intellectual property IP has had a significant impact on our business in the past 12 months.
Our UK digital and direct business passed the 1 billion premium mark in 2017, delivering growth of 14%.
Our digital IP played a pivotal role in helping us to secure long-term relationships with HSBC in the UK and Tencent in Hong Kong.
In 2017, we established Aviva Quantum, our artificial intelligence and global data science group, which now has 550 data scientists.
This group has developed our Ask it Never IP, which allows us to reduce the number of questions we ask customers during the underwriting process, significantly improving their quote and buy experience.
We are using this IP to develop a new generation of insurance products, called Aviva Plus.
This proposition takes the subscription model and applies it to insurance and is expected to be progressively rolled out to our existing UK customers.
In the next few years, we will continue to invest heavily to grow revenue and fully digitise our business.
Through this, we are targeting improvements in efficiency and customer experience that we expect to lead to higher sales, better retention, expanding margins and in turn growing profit over the medium to long term.
Outlook The streamlining of our geographic perimeter is complete and the strength of our franchises is beginning to shine through.
As a result, we have upgraded and bought forward our growth ambitions, and 1,2 are now targeting greater than 5% growth in operating EPS from 2018.
Together with our targets of 8 billion of cumulative remittances in 2016-2018 inclusive and increase in dividend payout ratio to 55-60% by 2020, we remain confident that we can continue to deliver cash flow plus growth for our shareholders.
Mark Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer 7 March 2018 1 This is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 03 S St tra rate tegi gic repor c report t G Go overn vernan ance ce IF IFRS RS f fi in na an nc cia ial l st sta at temen ement ts s O Ot ther in her inf fo orma rmat tio ion n Group Chief Executive Officers Review Continued Delivering on a clear plan of action Financial Strategic Cultural What we For our key metrics, we have: For our customers, we have: For our people, we have: achieved Increased Group adjusted operating In October, we launched an effortless Continued to build a culture and 1 profit by 2% to 3,068 million 2016: home claims trial in the UK, settling environment which attracts and 3,010 million home insurance claims by asking retains people with the right 3 Operating earnings per share EPS just three questions capabilities for the future increased by 7% to 54.8p 2016: Launched The Ideas Hub where Employee engagement is at 75% with 51.1p new initiatives are trialled with 85% of colleagues seeing how their Profit before tax attributable to customers using social media teams work aligns to Avivas strategy shareholders profit increased by Delivered solutions to help Introduced CATS Culture Action 68% to 2,003 million 2016: 1,193 customers feel safe again in their Team globally with over 2,000 million and basic EPS increased by homes, for example offering a leak members committed to driving 19.7p to 35.0p 2016: 15.3p detector, camera or smart battery for change to embed Avivas values 2 Increased cash remittances to customers who have made flood, Delivered our Leadership Accelerator Group by 33% to 2,398 million theft or fire claims programme to 290 of our senior 2016: 1,805 million Partnered with Neos, inventor of a leaders Increased total dividend per share by connected home service, which Launched Equal Parental Leave to 18% to 27.40p 2016: 23.30p detects leaks, smoke and intruders help build an inclusive workforce delivering four consecutive years of and alert you instantly by app For society, we have: double digit growth Launched the Aviva Wellbeing app to Supported 2,400 community projects, Delivered a strong Solvency II capital track and improve their overall helping 792,000 people position with an estimated health and wellbeing 2 Spearheaded the establishment of the shareholder Solvency II cover ratio In Digital, we have: World Benchmarking Alliance and of 198% 2016: 189% up 9pp.
This Expanded the reach of MyAviva to public, transparent and authoritative includes operating capital 2 include corporate customers and league tables of companies generation surplus movement in the IFAs.
It is now available in the UK, contribution to the UN Sustainable year of 2.6 billion Singapore, France, Poland and Development Goals Reported total assets under 2 Canada Awarded the UN Momentum for management of 490 billion an Invested in Wealthify, a robo Change award in recognition of a increase of 40 billion on last year investment platform, in October decade of work reducing the 2017 environmental impact of our business Launched Aviva Quantum with a 500- and inspiring action on climate strong team of data scientists change Withdrew our investment from Not Everywhere: tobacco manufacturing companies During the year we announced the Invested 527.5 million in lower sale of Friends Provident carbon infrastructure as part of our International strategic response to climate change We also announced the sale of Spanish joint ventures Unicorp Vida, Caja Espaa Vida and Aviva Vida y Pensiones In Taiwan we sold our joint venture, exiting the market What we Target higher than 5% increase in Build and deepen engagement with Continue to develop our leaders 3 plan to do operating EPS from 2018 onwards our customers on MyAviva across Aviva through greater Aim to deliver 8 billion of cash Disrupt in digital to do more for our innovation, agility and accountability 2 remittances between 2016-2018 customers Build a culture where we consider our inclusive Continue to campaign for whats customers in every decision Focus on achieving a 55-60% important to our customers Develop an inclusive workforce that dividend pay out ratio by 2020 Continue to reallocate capital to reflects the diversity of our customers 2 Target a Solvency II cover ratio focus on what we do best and drive Increase the impact of the Aviva working range of between 150% higher returns Community Fund across the world 180% Build on the success of our existing customer propositions, developing products and services that help our customers Defy Uncertainty in an increasingly sustainable way 1.
Group adjusted operating profit is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which is used by the Group to supplement the required disclosures under IFRS.
This is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
3 This measure is derived from the Group adjusted operating profit APM.
Further details of this measure are included in the Other Information section.
Read about our performance at www.
com about-us Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 04
