Group Chief Executives statement GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STA TEMENT In a tough period for insurance markets, we are delighted to produce another year of growing profits, dividends and return on equity for shareholders.
Higher premium income also highlights the positive customer response to what we are offering.
In 2017, RSA delivered growth in likely to have been one of the worst loss premiums, profits and dividends and years in recent times due particularly to an improved 15.5 percent return on three major US Caribbean hurricanes and 1 tangible equity all compared to Mexico earthquakes.
On a lesser scale, an extremely strong 2016 result.
UK market losses around the Ogden discount rate change and Household We are pleased to report record insurance escape of water inflation underwriting profits.
However, the year also dented domestic insurance results.
also had some disappointment relative Notwithstanding these factors, market to our ambitions.
Excellent underwriting capacity remains high, and there are results in Scandinavia, Canada, Middle East limited signs of price inflation more broadly.
and Ireland were partly offset by poor UK and related London market results.
It is Conversely, financial markets during 2017 our task in 2018 to deliver a bounce-back were more stable, at least as impacting in the latter whilst sustaining underlying RSA.
Bond yields are off their lows and progress across the Group as a whole.
global central bank action to wean markets off Quantitative Easing QE give Strategy and focus some optimism that coming years might RSA is a focused international insurer.
offer return upside for insurers portfolios.
The Groups We have complementary leadership However, tight credit spreads continue to positions in the major general insurance performance hurt, especially on UK pension accounting.
markets of the UK, Scandinavia and RSA makes a majority of profit outside ambitions remain Canada, together with supporting the UK, so FX rates versus sterling are London market and international also important.
During 2017 impacts were high and we target business.
The Group is well balanced limited despite swings, although the Brexit between personal and business further improvement process continues to have the potential to customers, across our geographies, deliver volatility.
product lines and distribution channels.
2017 actions Our business strategy is to sustain a 2017 was another year of intense Stephen Hester disciplined focus on RSAs existing areas activity at RSA.
The great majority of Group Chief Executive of market leadership, whilst driving our efforts were focused on operational intense operating improvement in pursuit improvement in pursuit of our bestof best-in-class performance levels.
We also delivered External conditions the final pieces of RSAs balance sheet restructuring successfully.
We look General insurance markets are relatively mature, consolidated and stable, though forward to 2018 as the first clean business as usual year since 2012. with some inevitable underwriting volatility.
Attractive performance can Financial strength: RSAs A grade credit be achieved through intense operational ratings are where we want them.
The focus within a disciplined strategic 2 Solvency II capital ratio at 163 percent framework.
2016: 158 percent is in a good place.
The 834m disposal in February of our For the insurance industry, 2017 was a year with some major external underwriting UK Legacy insurance liabilities removed a source of long-tail risk whilst funding challenges.
At a global level, it seems 10 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report a 640m retirement of high cost claims, which we expect to rectify for Excellent underwriting results were subordinated debt capital.
The Group attritional loss achieved in absolute and relative final piece of balance sheet work on ratio was slightly better than prior year terms across many of our businesses.
While we aspire to grow as a result, not quite as good as hoped Scandinavia led the way with a combined core tier 1 capital coverage further, for although still substantially better ratio of 82.9 percent.
Canada also the active phase of balance sheet than historically achieved.
improved, in a challenging market, to a repair is now complete.
Middle Cost efficiency remains a critical East had record results COR 87.7 percent Business improvement: Our goal is to performance lever.
We have now achieved and the Irish turnaround delivered its systematically and determinedly hunt 395m annual gross savings and are able first profits since 2012 COR 97.0 percent.
down performance improvement to raise our savings targets for a fourth opportunities across the business to move time to over 450m by 2019.
Digitisation, The disappointment was our UK business RSAs capabilities and then outcomes lean operations, site consolidation, including its European branches and towards best-in-class levels.
This involves enhanced purchasing, robotics, zero London market Commercial Lines 3 particular focus on improving three based budgeting all the tools in modern business.
A COR of 102.0 percent areas: service to customers, underlying corporate armouries to boost people reflected three major loss items: 72m underwriting results and cost efficiency.
productivity are being deployed of losses from US Caribbean hurricanes effectively across our regions.
and Mexican earthquakes net of Group Personal Lines policy count rose at RSA aggregate cover recovery, elevated in 2017 for the first time in four years Financial results 2017 Household escape of water inflation as customers reacted positively to the Underlying earnings per share rose and significant adverse large loss volatility many improvements we are putting 10 percent to 43.5p.
This produced a versus long-term averages.
The important home partnership return on tangible equity of 15.5 percent action is well underway to improve with Nationwide commenced business 2016: 14.2 percent, versus our target results in 2018. in December.
Operational initiatives range of 13-17 percent.
also contributed, spanning service At a statutory level, net profit before tax improvements via digital capabilities in rose to 448m 2016: 91m reflecting 10% claims and policy servicing, through to a lower level though still significant capability and proposition uplifts across of restructuring charges.
It remains our business lines.
RSA will not chase our ambition that 2017 be the last year 43.5p unprofitable growth.
We prize quality of such charges.
of customer relationship over quantity.
Underlying earnings per share But nevertheless, serving customers Premium income was up 4 percent, in line well remains at the heart of all we seek with our plan, featuring modest policy 23% to achieve.
count increases together with price and FX benefits.
RSAs most important capability lies in our underwriting judgement.
Across the Underwriting profits posted a new record 19.6p Group multiple improvements continued at 394m, up 4 percent versus our record in areas like portfolio discipline, data and Total dividend per share year in 2016.
The combined ratio of 94.0 model improvement, machine learning percent was also a new record for RSA.
Attritional loss Underlying pre-tax profits rose 12 percent, For more information ratios improved in every business except benefiting from resilient investment see Financial Review on pages 22-25 the UK.
Here our attritional results income and lower interest expense.
experienced significant setback, largely through Household escape of water RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Group Chief Executives statement continued RSAs entire focus is on the drive for outperformance in our markets.
In that context, our many performance improvement initiatives continue to deliver progress.
Stephen Hester Group Chief Executive Reflecting RSAs overall progress in 2017, a final dividend of 13.0p per share is proposed, making 19.6p per share total for 2017, up 23 percent.
This represents a 45 percent payout of underlying EPS higher than 2016 but in line with stated policy.
RSAs focused business strategy is designed to generate attractive levels of free cash flow, after meeting organic growth needs.
With rising earnings Thanks targeted, no more restructuring costs RSA made good progress with customers and as bond pull-to-par impacts recede and for shareholders in 2017, despite in coming years, RSA should have the significant external challenges.
potential for attractive further growth In achieving this, we owe thanks to in shareholder distributions.
all stakeholders for their support.
But most particularly to my colleagues Looking forward at RSA, who have embraced our bestOur performance target of 13-17 percent in-class ambition so effectively, go return on tangible equity represents my sincere thanks and appreciation.
attractive shareholder return both relative to cost of capital and insurance industry norms.
To the extent that RSAs underwriting performance progresses well towards our best-in-class combined ratio ambitions, even better returns are possible.
We will try to achieve just that.
Stephen Hester For 2018, the key tasks are to re-establish Group Chief Executive respectable performance in our UK 21 February 2018 business whilst continuing underlying progress in our overseas markets where the majority of the Group trades.
12 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT LEVERS TARGETS Best-in-class COR ambitions Advance customer service Digital platforms for convenience, flexibility and speed Increase customer satisfaction and retention 85% 94% 94% Sharpen customer acquisition tools Scandinavia Canada UK & International Further improve underwriting Earnings Elevate underwriting disciplines High quality, Ongoing business as usual portfolio re-underwriting repeatable earnings 13-17% or better Invest in tools and technology Attractive earnings Optimise reinsurance per share increases Underlying return on tangible equity Drive cost efficiency Dividend Deploy lean, robotics and process redesign Regular payout plus additional Optimise overheads and procurement payouts as available and prudent Site consolidation and outsourcing 40-50% Automation Underlying payout ratio Key enablers Underpinned by strong balance Technology sheet and capital management Focused performance culture Notes: 1.
T he Solvency II capital position at 31 December 2017 is estimated.
Our 2017 Strategic Report, on pages 1 to 41, has been reviewed and 3.
P roforma for share of aggregate reinsurance approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2018 and signed recoveries and excludes the impact of the Ogden on its behalf by Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive.
For more information see page 197.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
