14 Chief Executives review Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Our strategy is delivering results While I am pleased our international portfolio and strategic focuses have driven another year of growth, I am firmly focused on the future.
We have significant opportunities still to capture to drive organic growth as well as new avenues for further expansion emerging.
With the Group out of UK rail we have removed both significant Dean Finch financial commitments and political distraction and are able to Group Chief Executive concentrate on growing our bus and coach presence in our existing, interesting adjacent and targeted new, markets.
Introduction We have moved deliberately away from a business model where our prosperity was significantly determined by the instabilities of UK rail.
National Express has delivered perhaps its strongest ever set of Indeed, a key attraction of our internationally diversified portfolio is results in 2017, with good growth across all of our internationally that it has a significantly reduced exposure to any one countrys diversified portfolio.
We have achieved particularly strong political or regulatory movement.
performances in both North America and ALSA.
Our performance in the second half of 2017 in the UK has reversed the declines seen Our largest contract is worth less than four percent of our Group in the first six months, to deliver annual growth in both our bus and earnings: we are less dependent on the success or failure of a coach businesses.
So, rather than spending tens of millions of pounds on rail bids where we may win, say, one in four competitions which I believe that we are seeing the benefit of our focus on operational were also won on increasingly eye-watering terms, with vanishingly excellence, technology investment and disciplined acquisition in thin returns we have decided to invest our strengthening resources these results.
North Americas combination of customer focus, on improving the quality, safety and efficiency of our operations as contract retention and successful acquisitions has driven a record well as on attractive acquisition opportunities.
We have expanded in result.
ALSA has also delivered a very strong performance, propelled and into large, wealthy cities and also launched successfully in three by its increasingly sophisticated real time Revenue Management new markets Germany, Bahrain and Switzerland in recent years.
Both our UK bus and coach businesses have These three new market entries have all been profitable in their first used sophisticated pricing techniques and efficiency programmes full year of operations.
to drive second half performances that have more than reversed their first half challenges.
Our strategy therefore remains focused on three key pillars: These divisional performances are reflected in the strength of Operational excellence, including organic growth, tight cost control, our Group results.
We again delivered a record statutory profit of rigorous cash flow management and the disciplined allocation of 134.3 million up nearly 12% on last years record.
Free cash flow capital to maximise returns: also increased to 146.4 million 2016: 138.6m and our gearing Investment in technology to drive customer-focused innovation reduced to 2.3 times EBITDA.
With this strong performance we and excellence, improved safety performance and greater cost are proposing a 10% increase in the final dividend.
Our consistent efficiency: and, delivery is also reflected in the fact that over the last five years we Growth through targeted acquisitions in the worlds most affluent have generated over 750 million of free cash flow and, including cities and regions.
this years proposed final dividend, returned over 325 million to shareholders.
I will now set out how we are already delivering against each of these pillars and outline some of the emerging opportunities for further benefits to come.
National Express has delivered perhaps its strongest ever set of results in 2017, with good growth across all of our internationally diversified portfolio.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Chief Executives review 15 We also continue to forge and leverage strong partnerships with Strategy local authorities to tackle key operational and customer service Operational Excellence challenges.
For example, through a joint bid with Transport for We aim to give our customers safe, punctual and frequent transport West Midlands, our bus business has recently secured Department services at excellent prices.
During 2017, we gave our customers for Transport investment for new bus lanes on the important Harborne lower fares and improved services.
We also invested to improve the to Birmingham city centre route.
We have introduced our state-of-thesafety of our services and their ease of use through enhancements art Platinum buses to this route, with the aspiration of repeating the including the provision of better real time information, mobile journey significant increases in passengers we have seen where previous planning tools, contactless ticketing and faster services with better schemes such as Lode Lane in Solihull have combined journey end to end connections.
time savings with new, premium vehicles.
It is precisely this strong partnership approach that we are looking to further enhance by This relentless focus on improving our service to customers and working closely together to make sure the 2022 Commonwealth our fares, coupled with constantly improving the efficiency of Games in Birmingham are a success and deliver significant our operations, was rewarded with an increase in the number of transport improvements before the games begin.
passengers we carried and with improving customer satisfaction.
Across the Group we have carried over 882 million passengers, up Investment in technology 1.2% on a continuing basis, on 2016.
Our value for money scores We are in a period of significant technological change.
The seemingly were already high and are rising, for example: UK coachs score constant stream of innovations presents many opportunities for was over 87%, up 0.5% year-on-year: and, ALSAs 72% was up customer-focused businesses such as ours.
We are working on 6% year-on-year.
innovative new transport technologies, with ALSA developing autonomous, electric vehicle projects in Madrid, for example.
Our businesses have again demonstrated their industry-leading Beyond this, our task is to focus on the improved outcomes that customer service credentials in the year.
ALSA has achieved a can be delivered through the right technologies, rather than chasing record customer satisfaction score of 7.4 out of 10 up 4.8% every innovation that appears on the market.
I believe new technology year-on-year and also won the IZO Best Customer Experience presents a real opportunity to drive organic growth, improve standards for the Transport Industry award, the largest satisfaction survey and realise cost efficiencies.
We have therefore focused our interest conducted in Spain.
Our UK bus business achieved a recordin three principal areas.
equalling customer satisfaction score of 87% in the independent Transport Focus survey also up 1% year-on-year.
Our UK coach First, improving our service to customers.
Our RMS is a significant business customer satisfaction score was also up, three percent to example of this.
This allows us to provide real-time pricing that 86%, with the independent Temkin Group Net Promoter Score index becomes increasingly sophisticated through time as it builds up a ranking National Express fourth in its select group of companies.
memory of historic customer behaviour and applies it to the current North America again delivered another year of customer satisfaction market.
This has allowed our UK coach services to respond to the above 90%, coming in at 91.2%.
reduction in travel demand after the terrorist attacks in 2017, with a prompt, targeted lowering of ticket prices to sustain passenger We are also seeing the benefits in the safety performances of our numbers.
That our UK coach business carried more passengers business.
Safety is our top priority and we established our Driving in 2017 than 2016, despite the significant challenges it faced, is Out Harm programme in 2010 with the deliberately ambitious testament to the benefit of this real-time and granular pricing.
objective of removing all harm caused by our businesses.
I am Overall, our UK coach services saw an underlying revenue benefit delighted that since Driving Out Harms inception, we have reduced of two percent from RMS, with seat occupancy rates also up two harm, as measured by our industry-leading Fatalities and Weighted percent also demonstrating the efficiency benefit of the technology.
Injuries FWI index, by 74% per million miles operated.
Our Spanish long haul services which have RMS installed also saw revenue increase by 3.9% and seat occupancy rates up over We are also receiving significant external recognition for our safety two percent.
Both UK bus and coach received five-star British Safety Council scores, and their highest honour, the Sword of Honour: bus score of 97.4% was the highest in the transport industry: coach also received a ROSPA Gold Award.
ALSA received two awards from MAPFE: the International Road Safety and Best Initiative in the Prevention of Accidents awards.
And our North American school bus business has again received the highest possible safety rating from the Federal Motor Carrier Administration.
Safety will remain our Groups and my personal top priority as long as I am Chief Executive.
I will say more about our technology investments that are a crucial part of our plan for further improvement in the next section.
16 Chief Executives review Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC In 2018, we expect RMS to underpin further organic growth and deliver a one percent underlying benefit in both UK coach and ALSA.
Investing in technology to We also continue to see significant growth in digital sales channels across our businesses.
It is by far the most significant means of improve safety standards payment for UK coach, with 66% of revenue coming through digital channels up 3% year-on-year.
ALSA saw significant growth in digital We are committed to investing in technology to improve channels in 2017 of over 9%, with more than 40% of all its sales now standards and secure efficiencies.
One area where we have through digital.
On ALSAs long haul coach services, 44% of all sales shown particular leadership is through the installation and use are through digital channels.
UK bus is also experiencing a rapid rise of smart safety cameras on our vehicles.
Lytx DriveCam, in the number of passengers using digital channels, with 10% of all pictured below, is an industry-leading system that allows the passengers now travelling on m-tickets.
This growth in m-ticket use recording of accidents or incidents worthy of subsequent review.
has almost entirely occurred during 2017 and this trend is This technology is being rolled out across our businesses and is accelerating in 2018. already fully installed in the UK.
The videos allow us to improve safety and driving standards through tailored training and also We are investing to accelerate this shift.
We have introduced new provide crucial evidence for insurance claims, helping us contactless ticket machines to our UK buses, allowing a wide range significantly reduce the costs of accidents where it is installed.
of digital and contactless ticket types to be used.
These machines enable the daily capping of prices and allow us to move decisively away from the use of exact cash fares to travel.
Our customers in Coventry started using these new machines in January and they will be fully operational across the whole of the West Midlands in April, making it the single largest contactless network outside of London.
We will be complementing this with the launch of a muchimproved app in March that will allow real-time tracking of buses, among other customer-friendly features.
We have also invested to make UK coachs digital presence easier, quicker and more responsive to use.
An upgrade to our UK coach website has significantly reduced the number of clicks necessary and therefore time taken to purchase a ticket, with online sales conversion rates increasing 3% during the year.
We have also piloted a successful seat reservation system which will be rolled out network-wide in 2018.
These innovations and investments have: helped raise its rating in the App Store to 4.5 stars up from 2.5 stars at the start of 2017 : seen www.
com significantly improve its Google search optimisation scores so it is now the best ranked land transport website in the UK: and also been recognised with the Best Technology Award at the UK Coach Awards for the customer entertainment system, VUER.
Our North America business is also accelerating its use of technology to make it more responsive to customer demands.
During 2017 we launched new apps in transit and school bus, and through our market-leading software company Ecolane, for paratransit customers.
The Ecolane app allows users to book and view trips in real time and also proactively alerts them when their vehicle is on its way.
We have also uniquely within the industry installed an online complaints management system in all of our school bus depots.
New technology presents a real opportunity to drive organic growth, improve standards and realise cost efficiencies.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Chief Executives review 17 German Rail and Bahrain continue to use market-leading Acquisitions and new opportunities technologies to enhance their services to customers.
In Germany, With our strong and sustainable cash flows, we have targeted new our NX-Scout WhatsApp group, which provides up-to-date travel acquisitions in recent years to deliver growth as well as add quality information for customers, has the equivalent of around 15% of new businesses to our portfolio.
In 2017, we continued to do this daily passengers signed up.
In Bahrain, the local app has seen in a disciplined manner, with targeted returns above 15%.
We made a 50% increase in downloads during 2017, and the GO Card a further nine acquisitions in the year, with North America remaining smartcard is used in between 45% and 50% of journeys.
the focus of our capital allocation, but ALSA also adding six new businesses.
The second area where technology is also playing a very important role in our determination to continue to improve our performance The acquisitions we made in recent years continue to perform is safety.
In 2017, we saw significant progress in our roll-out of the strongly and we have a strong pipeline of further opportunities that industry-leading Lytx DriveCam smart safety cameras that allow we are actively pursuing in both North America and through ALSA.
incidents to be recorded and analysed.
This provides the opportunity Through the appointment of James Stamp as Group Commercial for both tailored driver training and fuller evidence to be used in Director previously KPMGs UK Head of Transport and Global insurance claims.
The cameras are now installed: across all our Head of Aviation and other hires in his team, we have strengthened UK fleet: in 6,351 vehicles in North America, with a target of around our Group support to the divisions in their acquisition and new another 10,000 by the end of the year: and in 150 vehicles in ALSA, market identification.
with a target of over 1,000 around 45% of the Spanish fleet by the end of the year.
Our ALSA acquisitions include three that build on our successful Swiss ski market entry through AlpyBus and strengthen our presence There are very encouraging results of reductions in event severity, in the Geneva area.
We are developing Geneva as an emerging the number of incidents and insurance costs where the smart growth hub with expansion into local school bus and discretionary safety cameras have been in place the longest.
In North America, transport alongside the growing transfer business: AlpyBus itself for example, we started rolling Lytx DriveCam out in 2014 and it grew significantly in 2017.
ALSA made another three acquisitions in is now installed in 46 locations.
The results so far show that when the year that add new bus operations in Madrid and Granada as well comparing the costs of claims from preventable street accidents as Maitours, which provides: staff transfers for a large local airline for the 12 months prior to fitment against post-installation, there and national bank headquarters: an urban transport contract in has been a 30% reduction.
So with the significant further roll out Azuqueca, Guadalajara: and school bus services in Madrid.
programme in 2018, we expect to reap further driving standards, safety and cost benefits over the coming years.
We made three acquisitions in North America during 2017, adding over 800 vehicles across the school bus, paratransit, Alongside the investment in the smart safety cameras we have begun transit and special education sectors.
These acquisitions included a comprehensive programme addressing speed management across Cook-DuPage Transportation, providing entry into the USs largest the Group.
Technology is already playing a crucial role in identifying paratransit market Chicago.
Paratransit is a fast-growing market issues and allowing targeted management interventions.
It will be and this acquisition therefore strengthens our credentials in this augmented in 2018 with a comprehensive internal communications important sector.
campaign to reinforce the crucial importance of speed management.
We will have the near universal roll-out of this technology by the end By using our presence helped by recent acquisitions in large city of 2018. markets to operate services across, for example, school bus, transit, paratransit, charter and employee shuttle, we can offer competitive We are also investing in technology which improves our third principal pricing and operational resilience as we benefit from the synergies area: business and cost efficiency.
Two North American pilots are between the different operations.
With a greater local concentration providing particularly interesting opportunities.
First, a new budget we can also develop strong local relationships.
Across the Group, our management system which provides, to a very granular level, detailed best markets are often those where we successfully combine service cost management for local management use but also central review.
excellence, competitive pricing and strong relationships.
We believe, Second, a business management system will systematise good therefore, that developing and expanding this approach provides an customer and operational practice across our business supporting interesting opportunity for new growth.
local management and also enhancing central oversight.
In a continent-wide business where customer relationships are key, Our North American acquisitions have also brought new thinking striking the right balance between local flexibility and central control into our business and we believe one area where we will benefit is a crucial challenge for running an effective and efficient business.
in particular is in charter.
Learning from the way a recently acquired business had developed and grown its own local charter revenue, These two emerging tools are providing encouraging early results we see the opportunity for significant nationwide growth.
We estimate and exciting opportunities for the future.
By using the business the national charter market to be worth more than $1.5 billion a year.
management system we have been able to revise our fleet In 2017, for example, National Express only captured around three management system and in so doing have identified over 750 buses percent of this market, demonstrating the opportunity for growth.
we believe can be more effectively deployed in 2018.
This will have direct benefits in terms of a significant reduction in new capital We have continued to target new growth opportunities through requirements.
This system is being extended to cover our selected bidding.
ALSA has recently submitted a joint venture bid maintenance processes and we expect to again generate improved to operate a bus contract in Rabat, to consolidate our position in efficiency in our systems generally and also allow for greater claims Morocco.
We plan to submit further German rail bids this year to on parts warranties, specifically.
augment our presence in North Rhine Westphalia.
18 Chief Executives review Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC I am very proud of our industry-leading work in the community.
We launched the National Express Foundation in 2012 and in that time Recognising exceptional have supported over 14,200 youngsters in the West Midlands, East London, South Essex and Medway.
This support has helped local driving performance community groups working with disadvantaged young people as well as those who would otherwise not be able to access further or Our People Value is to develop the talents, reward the higher education because of financial challenges, attend college or exceptional performance and respect the rights of all our university.
This year National Express Group will provide 300,000 employees.
Our Master and Advanced Driver programme is a to the foundation to further its good work.
If drivers have two consecutive years of excellent service and performance including, for example, no Equally, our leadership on the Living Wage has been a source of preventable accidents or customer complaints and excellent pride.
Our UK bus operations have been a Living Wage Foundation driving assessments they become an Advanced Driver.
Three accredited employer for 2 years and the feedback from staff has consecutive years of this exceptional performance achieves been very positive.
Our UK coach business is currently securing the Master Driver status.
These drivers are presented with their accreditation: it has introduced the Living Wage Foundation living awards at a ceremony that families are encouraged to attend wage to directly employed staff and will shortly roll this out to and receive a distinctive tie and free membership of the Institute contractors employees.
for Advanced Motorists, providing potential insurance benefits.
We now have 903 Advanced Drivers and 728 Master Drivers I was very sad to hear of the untimely passing of John Devaney across the Group and this increasingly popular programme in January this year.
John served as National Express Chairman continues to grow.
John also served as Executive Chairman for a period during this time, including leading the challenging rights issue that rescued the business.
John brought a wealth of experience to his time at National Express and I always found him a helpful source of both support and challenge, essential for any Chief Executive.
Both personally, and on behalf of National Express, I would like to offer my sincerest condolences to Johns family and friends.
Outlook We expect to deliver growth in every business again in 2018, as our strategy continues to generate strong shareholder value.
We will remain focused on operational excellence and technology investment to deliver high quality services to customers at good value prices.
Our businesses are increasingly sophisticated, using technology to get ever closer to our customers and drive through efficiencies in our operations, whether RMS, Lytx DriveCam or contactless ticketing.
We are confident therefore that we will deliver organic growth in each business in 2018 and complement this with a strong acquisition pipeline of opportunities with returns of at least 15%, across ALSA and North America.
We are actively working on Master Drivers receive a distinctive tie to recognise their achievement further acquisitions.
Our strong and sustainable cash flow we believe our free cash flow in 2018 will be broadly similar to 2017 combined with 20 million of fuel cost savings and the benefit of acquisitions made at the end of 2017, give us strong tailwinds.
These have recently been strengthened by US tax reform, which will see our Group effective tax rate reduced to the low 20s, in percentage points.
I look forward to 2018 with both excitement and optimism.
I am I look forward to 2018 with both excitement and optimism.
I am ably supported by a strong, dynamic management team that operates ably supported by a strong, dynamic National Express many businesses with relentless focus and management team that operates efficiency.
The technological tools now available to the business give us the granularity and transparency to control and manage the National Express many businesses business in a way that I think could be transformational over time.
with relentless focus and efficiency.
The strength and resilience of the business proved to be very impressive in 2017 and will continue to underpin our future in the years to come.
Our strong cash generation coupled with our numerous growth opportunities give me confidence as we once again look ahead to deliver growth in revenue, profits and returns in the years ahead.
Dean Finch Group Chief Executive 1 March 2018
