STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Statement The Group has continued to deliver strong profit growth in 2017 We are now planning beyond 2020 toprogress the development of ourstrategic objectives in the longerterm.
Profit before tax up 13% to 52.1 million after charging approximately 1 million of acquisition costs.
The planned integration of CPM is on track with ourexpectations.
The Groups positive cash generation has continued.
Commitment to self help capital investment programme and new product development.
Digital strategy development progressing well.
Introduction customer service, quality and sustainability continue to put the customer at the very heart of our business model and investment proposition.
The Group has continued to deliver strong profit growth in 2017.
Continued progress has been made in the year to deliver the 2020 Your Chairman, Andrew Allner is retiring both from the Board, and Strategy and the self help programme to support organic growth is asChairman, after many years of service.
On behalf of the Company, progressing well.
Sales and order intake have remained strong in the Iwould like to place on record my thanks to Andrew for his excellent firstcouple of months of 2018.
Based on public indicators we believe stewardship and his significant contribution to the ongoing wecontinue to outperform our peers and gain market share.
The Groups development and growth of Marshalls.
2020 Strategy is now in its third year and we have continued to deliver on its core aspects.
We are now planning beyond 2020 to progress the 2017 trading summary development of our strategic objectives over the longer term.
Group revenue for the year ended 31 December 2017 was up 8 per cent at 430.2 million 2016: 396.9 million.
Group revenue includes 9.0million As a result of our continued focus on strategic growth and operational from CPM.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding the impact of CPM, Group efficiency initiatives, the Group has delivered an operating profit in revenue was up 6 per cent.
2017of 53.4 million 2016: 47.6 million, an increase of 12 per cent.
Thisresult is after charging 1.2 million of operational restructuring Sales in the Domestic end market, which represented approximately costsand 0.8 million of acquisition costs.
32per cent of Group sales, continue to outperform CPA forecasts, and were up 12 per cent compared with the prior year period.
The survey of CPM Group Limited CPM was acquired on 19 October 2017.
CPM domestic installers at the end of February 2018 revealed order books of isaprecast concrete manufacturer which specialises in underground 10.8 weeks 2017: 11.0 weeks which compared with 11.7 weeks at the water management solutions and the acquisition is in line with our end of October 2017. stated 2020 Strategy to complement our organic plans with targeted acquisitions.
CPM has traded strongly since acquisition and the planned Excluding CPM, sales in the Public Sector and Commercial end market, integration of CPM is in line with our expectations.
which represented approximately 61 per cent of Group sales, were up 2per cent compared with 2016.
The Group continues to target those Marshalls is a leading brand with a significant market position.
Our strong parts of the market where higher levels of growth are anticipated investment case is covered in more detail on pages 4 and 5.
Marshalls including New Build Housing, Water Management and Rail.
remains a benchmark for excellence and the 3 cornerstone themes of The core Commercial and Domestic businesses continue to deliver benefits from operational efficiency improvements and our network MARSHALLS PLC 08 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ofmanufacturing sites remains a key competitive strength.
Revenues in proposed acquisition target will be carefully assessed against strict our Emerging UK Businesses increased by 2 per cent, compared with the criteria and will be thoroughly considered during the detailed due prior year.
The improved performance of our Street Furniture business diligence phase.
has been particularly encouraging in 2017, and the growth in sustainable Marshalls digital strategy remains a key priority and continued profitability of our Emerging UK Businesses remains a key part of the investment is being directed to enhancing capability and to drive a 2020 Strategy.
The growth of protective security street furniture digital first approach.
The digital strategy is underpinned by continuous continues and this is explained in more detail on page 16. improvement driven by data analysis and customer insight.
Our web International revenue grew by 19 per cent during 2017 and represents and mobile applications enable customers to model their requirements approximately 5 per cent of Group sales.
Marshalls has made continued and allow digital access to the registered installer base.
progress in developing the International business and trading performance The Groups strategic initiatives are set out in detail in the Strategic Report has improved in line with the revenue growth.
The Group continues to on pages 2 to 33. develop opportunities by improving its global supply chains and routes to market.
Innovation and new product development In the core Landscape Products business, the growth in revenue from Profit before tax increased by 13 per cent to 52.1 million 2016: 46.0 million new products continued strongly, increasing by 4.2 per cent during 2017. and EBITDA increased by 12 per cent to 67.9 million 2016: 60.8 million.
The objective is to deliver innovative market leading new products that Basic EPS was 21.52 pence 2016: 18.95 pence, an increase of 14 per cent.
are aligned with customer needs across all business areas.
The development Profit before tax is stated after charging 1.2 million of operational pipeline continues to be strong and the Group is committed to providing restructuring costs and 0.8 million of acquisition costs in relation high performance product solutions.
All the Groups premium driveway totheGroups acquisition of CPM.
products now feature advanced surface performance technology: examples include Drivesys which has been designed to look and feel Capital discipline remains a key priority and the Groups strong cash like natural stone and Priora which has been specifically engineered generation has continued.
Net debt at 31 December 2017 was 24.3 million tomanage heavy rainfall.
2016: 5.4 million cash and reflects the total cash outflow of 41.4 million in connection with the acquisition of CPM.
Operating Cash flow was Further development includes project engineering to improve 100per cent of EBITDA.
manufacturing efficiency and our specialist engineers and technicians deliver competitive advantage for Marshalls by combining machinery Acquisition of CPM design and installation with process improvement.
This enables Group Water Management is a key focus area for the Group and the acquisition togenerate added value through innovation in materials, technology of CPM is a significant step towards the Groups stated strategy of providing andproduct development.
a full water management capability within its product range.
CPM will enable us to offer customers a broader product choice that complements Improvements in operational efficiency our existing water management offering.
Previously, Marshalls did not We are continuing to focus on improving operational and manufacturing trade in below ground UK drainage products, so the acquisition has efficiency.
The Group adopts a flexible operating framework that aims extended the Groups product range below ground.
CPM operates in todrive cost efficiency improvements across the controllable cost base thecollect, conveyance, clean, hold and release, and recycle areas of the andto develop flexible strategies within the supply chain.
Our objective underground market and the product ranges include pipes, traditional is to mitigate inflation on an ongoing basis to ensure sustainable business and sealed manholes, attenuation tanks and flow control and rainwater continuity and cost control.
The Group network of 13 concrete harvesting systems.
manufacturing sites and quarries provides national geographic coverage and, with the implementation of best practice across the entire network, Current priorities and operational strategy represents a key competitive advantage.
The Groups 2020 Strategy is now in its third year and we have again delivered on its core aspects.
The Groups strategy remains to grow the The Groups well invested sales and capital investment programmes business, deliver increasing operating margins in all businesses and provide theflexibility to manufacture products for both the Public improve the Groups return on capital employed ROCE.
We are now Sector and Commercial and the Domestic end markets.
This enhances planning beyond 2020 so as to progress the development of our strategic operational flexibility which also remains a key priority.
All the Groups objectives over the longer term.
operations are supported by a centrally managed logistics and distribution capability.
Manufactured products from this network, together During 2017, further progress has been made with the self help capital with ethically sourced natural stone products imported from India, investment programme, the development of new products and the Groups Chinaand Vietnam, are supplied to distributors depots or direct to site.
These organic projects have been complemented bytheacquisition of CPM and its planned integration is on track with Health and safety our expectations.
Both aspects have allowed us to improve the level of The Group is committed to safeguarding the health and safety of every our sustainable operating margins with the Group reporting an increase employee and all stakeholders who may be affected by our undertakings.
from 12.0 per cent to 12.4 per cent during the year.
Maintaining the highest standards of health and safety remains a cornerstone of the Groups culture and we are committed to the continual improvement ROCE, defined as EBITA shareholders funds plus net debt, was in health and safety performance.
24.8percent for the year ended 31December 2017, which was up 8percent year-on-year.
This ROCE calculation excludes the impact During 2017, there was a 35 per cent reduction in days lost from workplace ofCPM and is therefore on a like-for-like basis.
incidents, which is comfortably ahead of the Groups headline target.
The Group has continued to invest in health and safety awareness Capital expenditure was 22.5 million in the year ended 31December2017, training for all managers and supervisory staff and we promote a culture which included 8.6 million of additional self help investment.
Capital in which all managers visibly demonstrate health and safety leadership.
expenditure of 28.0 million is planned for 2018.
We continue to generate a good pipeline of capital investment projects that will drive future organic growth.
In addition, increases in research and new Martyn Coffey product development expenditure continue to be made.
Chief Executive Notwithstanding the acquisition of CPM, we continue to target bolt-on acquisitions within our identified growth sectors of Water Management, Street Furniture and Minerals.
Our approach remains cautious and any MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 09
