Chief Executive Officers review Making insurance much easier andbetter value for customers This years progress reflects the hard work of our people and our continued customer focus.
Q: How is Direct Line Group making insurance Q: What has driven the Groups dividends?
much easier and better value for customers?
A: As announced in the 2017 half year results, the Board has A: Im really proud that were growing our brands and our rebased the regular dividend upwards, increasing the final customer base whilst continuing to deliver a strong financial dividend by 3.9 pence to 13.6 pence per share 2016: 9.7 performance.
A lot of our growth is coming through the Direct pence.
This reflects our confidence in our earnings and the Line brand, where we have put a huge amount of work into progress we have made since the IPO in 2012. reinvigorating what we do for our customers.
We know that Q: What role does IT investment play in your insurance is not just about competitive prices: customers value plans?
great products and services as well as great prices.
This year weve added even more propositions which are unique to A: Technology is the backbone of our organisation and Direct Line, including providing alternative accommodation weve seen major changes in infrastructure and software over should customers be unable to live in their home after an the last few years.
Our profitability has enabled us to pay insured event, as well as an emergency plumber service.
good dividends and also to continue to invest in technology.
Our Green Flag brand has also grown fast, showing its In 2017 we launched our new digital platform for small effectiveness as a disruptor brand in the Rescue market.
business customers using the Direct Line for Business brand.
And weve continued to develop the digital journey through This addresses the fact that todays small businesses, mobile devices, allowing personal customers to use their particularly start-ups, find insurance complex and expensive smartphones in a broader range of claims situations.
and need policies and services that are tailored to the needs of their businesses.
Meanwhile we are working on our core Q: How would you describe the Groups financial personal lines policy and related systems, bringing in best-inperformance?
class software aimed at delivering faster, better, digital A: 2017 is the fifth successive year in which weve delivered customer experience at lower cost.
The Group has a great track We have invested significantly in IT and data knowledge record of meeting the targets we publish and this gave us the and capability.
We have brought in new talent over the past confidence to extend some of our targets into the medium term.
two years across IT, IT security, digital and data to help Investors I meet acknowledge that since going public in 2012 achieve this.
During the year, we decided that some of the we have demonstrated consistently strong results, coupled in investment undertaken as part of the improvement in IT recent years with growth in the business though of course capability would not deliver the targeted performance levels they encourage us to not only sustain this but do better.
to meet its customers expectations.
Therefore, we decided to rework some elements of data storage and data flows.
As a result we incurred an intangible asset impairment charge of 56.9 million in the year, reflecting capitalised costs of intangible assets that will no longer be utilised.
10 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Q: What do you see as the greatest market Q: It has been five years since the IPO.
Can you opportunities and challenges?
describe the journey you have been on as an organisation?
What have been the most A: Ive already mentioned Direct Line for Business and significant changes over the last five years?
There are other exciting opportunities ahead for NIG, where we are providing a great service to brokers A: In many ways it seems like no time at all!
I think that the serving the SME sector, and where we are investing in pricing fifth birthday has given us cause to reflect on not just a one capability as well as technology.
In our Home business, we are year view but on a five year view of our progress.
We have doing innovative work with our NatWest partner to serve their achieved a huge amount over that period.
We are a people retail customers better, and in Travel we are building a new business and these achievements are the result of the efforts of operating platform as a foundation for developing both our our entire DLG team, all of whom have played a part in a direct and partner business.
Of course the markets we operate fundamental change in our culture from that of a division of in are extremely competitive and 2017 saw significant a large global bank to our own unique identity.
industry-wide challenges in the form of Insurance Premium Key steps in this change have been our focus on the customer and Tax IPT and changes to the personal injury discount rate.
on individual behaviours, our performance management system, These challenges, coupled with the growing popularity of investing in our leadership, our colleague share ownership PCWs, have created a shoppers market and Im delighted scheme, and initiatives such as Idea Lab, which enable with the success that our brands have enjoyed across the colleagues to be rewarded for saving the Company money.
All this leads to a high level of employee engagement, which In the longer term, our core markets of motor and home and rose again in 2017.
Our full engagement score has gone up the products we are insuring are changing rapidly and while to 78% five points higher than last year and 33 points higher this brings challenges, it also presents many opportunities.
That than when we first ran the survey in 2014 and over 9,200 is why we are investing to stay ahead, for example through a people 87% took part in our DiaLoGue colleague survey this number of strategic partnerships in the FinTech sector which year.
We are grateful that so many people participated, and position the Group for some of the disruption which we expect were delighted that our efforts in engaging and motivating our to occur.
The most significant challenge in the long term is the colleagues who, importantly, our internal survey indicates feel potential for driverless cars to enter the mainstream market.
that they are listened to and respected continue to pay off.
We have a positive attitude to new car technology and believe We want them to know that what they think and what they do it will make cars much safer, which would be a good thing for really matters to the company.
society while reducing the pool of risk which customers need to cover via insurance.
We believe the insurance industry One of the proudest moments for all of us in the last five has a critical role to play in the analysis and adoption of the years has been to write over four million Direct Line policies technology and we are therefore developing insight into the in 2017.
This is the result of an alignment of our strategy, our impact of automated driving systems on liability and claims.
insurance and marketing expertise and the customer focus of This is happening, for example, through MOVE UK and our employees.
StreetWise, a driverless car consortia which the Group has joined.
We also have the benefit of our state-of-the-art repair Q: What is your outlook for the Group in 2018?
network, which is investing to stay abreast of new car A: Looking beyond the external uncertainties like the weather, technology.
If the risk pool declines as a result of the new whiplash reforms and the changes to the personal injury technologies, we would expect the size of the Motor market discount rate, we have a good plan in place for our customers, to contract.
In these circumstances we will need to continue shareholders and colleagues.
Achieving a balance between to win more of it.
With the insights we are gaining, and the all three has been central to our success since IPO and that relationships we are building, I believe we will be wellcontinues to be our aim.
Turning to our performance beyond 2017, the Group targets a combined operating ratio of between 93% and 95% over the medium term, assuming a normal level of claims from major weather events and no further change to the Ogden discount rate, supported by reductions in our expense and commission ratios and reiterates our ongoing target of achieving at least a 15% RoTE.
For 2018, we expect net investment income yield to be around 2.1%, with overall investment return in the region of 150 million.
Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer WWW.
