Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 06 Chief Executives Statement A transformational year Our strategic moves during 2017 This was a hugely important year for RB, as we made real progress towards our purpose position the Group extremely well of healthier lives and happier homes.
Our strategic moves for the future.
during 2017 enable us to meet an even broader range of consumer needs and position the Group extremely well for the future.
First, we completed the acquisition of MJN in June 2017.
MJN is a unique opportunity for RB to do more in pursuit of healthier lives, supporting infant nutrition in the crucial first 1,000 days of life, which are the most important for determining long-term health outcomes.
The purchase brings into sharp focus the progress we have made over the last five years, in transforming the portfolio from one centred on household cleaning to one which is predominantly based on health and hygiene.
MJN is an excellent fit with our base business.
RB already reaches millions of people through our hygiene education programmes and provides parents with relief when their children are unwell, through world-class brands such Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive Officer Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 07 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements as Nurofen and Mucinex.
MJN Performance In a year that transformed RB brings a deep understanding of a new mothers journey and the strategically, we continued to leading global brand in infant facechallenging conditions in nutrition, Enfamil.
We also suffered giving us entry to this structurally from both known and unforeseen advantaged, fast-growing and issues, as aresult of which our high-margin category, the performance in 2017 was not acquisition also achieved an good enough andwe did not important goal for RB, by giving outperform our markets.
us a strong platform in important developing markets.
These include The known issues included China, the Philippines, Vietnam the impact of the South Korea and many parts of Latin America.
Humidifier Sanitizer HS issue We completed the acquisition and the Scholl Amop innovation ahead of schedule and have in 2016.
We continue to engage already made good progress with with all stakeholders, including our acquisition objectives, both other companies, to resolve the financially and operationally.
tragedy in Korea and remain committed to putting victims first.
Our second key strategic move was the sale of our Food business.
This The issue we did not foresee was was a very strong operation, with a serious cyber attack, which fantastic people and brands, which hit RB and a number of other generated considerable value for companies on 27 June 2017.
This Shareholders over a long period.
had a significant impact, disrupting However, it was not core toRBs key operations including our purpose and given the acquisition manufacturing capacity, logistics, of MJN, it was the right moment and our go-to-market operations, to find the best owner for this with a corresponding effect on business.
We exited at about the our performance, particularly in time we completed the MJN deal, the third quarter of the year.
for a very good price, benefiting Shareholders and enabling us to While we had always invested reduce our debt andinterest costs.
in our cyber security, we have learned many lessons about Acquiring MJN means that for how to improve.
Our aim is to the first time, consumer health prevent further attacks, but their accounts for more than 50% of increasing sophistication means we Mead Johnson Group revenues on a pro-forma cannot rely on prevention alone.
Achieving this critical mass We are therefore enhancing our in consumer health has given us programmes for rapid detection the opportunity to determine of, and response to, attacks, Completing the acquisition of MJN one where we want to be in the enabling us to quickly mitigate quarter earlier than we planned has given us future.
Under RB 2.0, we have the impact, and improving our a head start on delivering the back office created two focused, agile and ability to efficiently restore fully accountable business units our systems, so we are up and and procurement synergies we had identified.
Health, incorporating MJN, and running again as fast as possible.
As a result, we achieved synergies of around Hygiene Home which together US$25 million in 2017, helping to offset margins form one RB.
This new structure The year also brought some in MJN that were lower at the completion of was put in place effective Q1 notable successes, not least the acquisition than we expected.
More information about the the improving performance expect to achieve in the region of US$300 reorganisation can be found on in infant nutrition.
Since the million in annual cost savings by the end of page 9, with details of Health and acquisition, we have worked hard the third year of ownership, an increase over Hygiene Home on pages 32 to 35. to accelerate MJNs innovation our original target of US$250 million 200 pipeline in the key markets of million.
Similarly we are bringing our expertise in digital and e-commerce to drive The next phase of integration will see MJN transformational growth.
We become an integral part of the new Health have also targeted investment business unit, with the opportunity to bring the into other significant growth best of both companies to benefit consumers channels, notably mom-andand drive growth.
In addition, we have injected the RB culture, See more on page 26 with its passion, discipline and focus onperformance.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 08 Chief Executives Statement continued The RB base business defined RB has always prioritised being a responsible company and on page 39 is driving growth in United Nations UN Sustainable digital and e-commerce, especially we must continue to do so if in China.
We delivered further we are to achieve our goals.
Development Goals strong growth in this channel in 2017, with e-commerce generating During 2017, we therefore added more than 50% of Chinas Net a new value of responsibility, The UN has 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which together Revenue, up from more than formalising the message that form an agenda for radical improvements for people, the planet 30% in 2016.
This puts us ahead we must always do the right and prosperity.
The goals are underpinned by detailed targets, of schedule to reach our target thing, even when it is hard.
RBs products already contribute to of 50% of Chinas Net Revenue information about our values can the achievement of a number of these goals and targets, in coming from e-commerce by be found on pages 16 to 17. particular those relating to good health and wellbeing and 2020.
More information about clean water and sanitation.
The acquisition of MJN means we our e-commerce growth initiatives RB 2.0 Reorganising for growth now also contribute to ending stunted growth in children, which can be found on page 19.
The world is changing rapidly.
Long-term trends in consumer has life-long health and developmental impacts and is a key Innovation is the lifeblood of health remain strong, with ageing target under the Zero Hunger goal.
RB and we continued to launch populations in developed markets new and exciting products in and rising incomes in emerging 2017.
Examples include the SiTi markets both driving spending Shield range, which creates a new on health and wellbeing.
The category by protecting people Health category is competitively from the pressing global health advantaged, with consumers issue of air pollution see page 33. wanting brands they know and Other notable health innovations trust in their moment of need, were a Scholl Express Pedi for the and channel transformation is value end of the market, especially less pervasive than in personal to drive penetration in emerging care and home care, in part due markets: Durex Naturals Intimate to regulation.
The Hygiene and Gel, which is the first in a line Home categories have substantial of Durex natural products: and penetration opportunities, Digestive Advantage Chocolate particularly in emerging markets, Bites, a delicious way to get your and the chance to reap the full daily probiotics to promote longpotential of our excellent brands.
term digestive and immune health.
RB aims to be the global leader in We also continued to innovate in consumer health, witha strong the Hygiene and Home categories.
presence in major categories New Hygiene products included and a broad geographic spread.
a completely new formulation It will have the expertise and of Finish, to suit the table-top focus to build on its dedicated dishwashers which are driving health platform, in a structurally penetration in China.
Disinfecting Wipes now use a new material designed to pick The higher focus and resource up dirt and germs better, and we allocation to consumer health have overhauled the entire Veja has delivered strong results for brand in Brazil, with the biggest RB in recent years, but it means update to the range in the last we have not done full justice five years.
In the Home category, to Hygiene Homes portfolio of key innovations include Vanish global Powerbrands.
The new White and Air Wicks VIPoo.
business unit will unleash the potential of those brands, by RB depends on its talented people speeding up innovation, creating to drive its success.
We have a real more opportunity to invest in depth of talent and the creation of our brands, and sharpening our new business units allows us to its go-to-market focus.
deploy this strength, by providing new opportunities for them to flourish.
We have put together strong leadership teams for each business unit, which meet the See more in our specific needs of those businesses Sustainability Report and support our growth ambitions.
com Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 09 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The reorganisation also aims to position RB to succeed in the newworld of channel fragmentation.
New channels such as e-commerce, discounters RB 2.0 Reorganising and mom-and-baby stores give us theopportunity to provide more tailored solutions, to for growth meet thespecific shopping needs of these consumers.
For 2018, we are targeting total revenue growth of 13-14% at RB has transformed its portfolio during the past five constant rates, which implies years, delivering strong returns to Shareholders.
like-for-like growth in the range of 2-3%, in line with overall market The acquisition of MJN and the disposal of RB Food have growth.
We also reiterate our given us the opportunity to start a new chapter of medium-term target of moderate sustainable outperformance.
From 1 January 2018, operating margin expansion.
The operating margin for 2018 will RB has two business units Health and Hygiene Home.
reflect a number of specific factors, Each business unit is fully end-to-end accountable, from including the arithmetical impact of a full year of consolidating innovation, through brand development and supply, MJN, increased synergies ensuring healthier lives and happier homes relating to the integration of MJN and the operating costs for our consumers.
Finally, I would like to thank Adrian Bellamy, Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser for the enormous difference they have made to RB, during their many years on the Board.
I look forward to working with Chris Sinclair, the Board, and all our people to help deliver the next phase of RBs success, as we make further progress towards achieving our purpose.
Five guiding principles Frontline obsession: devolving responsibility to in-country teams, Rakesh Kapoor toserve our consumers and customers better Chief Executive Officer Category focus and expertise: building out differentiated models to 19 March 2018 suitthe needs of each category Entrepreneurship and ownership: encouraging initiative and new ideas Ready to disrupt: creating new categories, exploiting technology and new channels, and developing new models Radical simplification: creating a more focused and agile organisation Benefits Closer to our customers and consumers Faster decision making and speed to market Increased resources to invest for growth More focused innovations Opportunities for our teams to learn and leverage their expertise See more on pages 32 to 35
