Chief Executives review 2017 has once again demonstrated the quality of Bodycotes business.
The Groups revenue growth, combined with continued discipline on costs, helped lift headline operating profit by 24%.
Return on sales increased to 18.0% from 16.6%.
S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive Overview Bodycote reported revenue growth of 14.9% to 690.2m 2016: S. C. Harris 600.6m, with revenue benefiting from foreign exchange translation Group Chief gain.
At constant currency, revenues grew 9.6%, including a Executive contribution of 2.9% from acquisitions completed in 2016.
The following review reflects constant currency growth rates unless stated otherwise.
General industrial markets returned to growth after a multiyear negative trend.
Moreover, this growth was broad-based, with improvements in general industrial demand occurring in all of our served geographies.
Group revenues generated from the general industrial sectors, which represent some 39% of our business, grew 10%, which was well above the growth in background demand.
Of this growth, 4 percentage points came from acquisitions made in 2016.
The remainder of the Groups outperformance in general industrial versus the market came from the increased penetration of Specialist Technologies which grew 14% in this sector, as well as an element of some customer restocking.
The decision we took to preserve the capacity at our Texas Oklahoma facilities is being well rewarded, as we have also seen a reversal of the sharp declines that we had experienced in onshore oil & gas demand.
Growth in onshore oil & gas saw a strong sequential increase in 2017, driven predominantly by demand from unconventional drilling activity in the Permian Basin.
In the rest of the energy sector, subsea revenues continued to decline and large-frame industrial gas turbines IGT are also in retreat following cutbacks at the original equipment manufacturers OEMs.
It is worth noting, however, that requests for quotation in the subsea sector have picked up considerably.
In total, revenues from the energy sector increased by 4%.
Civil aviation grew 6% with our UK operations continuing to add significant business.
This increase will require new facilities to be built in 2018 in the UK in order to service forecast demand.
North America also started to contribute to the growth in a more meaningful way as the build rate of LEAP engines continues to grow.
Bodycote has a much stronger position on the LEAP series than it did on the previous CFM56, which is a testament to the success of the focused sales and investment programme that has been undertaken over the last decade.
08 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 02 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 The automotive business saw growth of 14% with the majority In 2017 we continued to invest in areas with superior growth of this increase coming from the car and light truck sector.
This potential, with a deliberate bias towards investments in rapidcompares to background demand growth in Europe of low single growth markets, Specialist Technologies, and long-cycle digits and a slight decline in the USA.
Our strong performance programmes, particularly in civil aviation: Emerging Markets benefited from the contribution from the acquisitions made in 2016, revenues increased 26% to 54.1m, representing 8% of Group together with the investments we have made in Emerging Markets turnover, with growth in Mexico and China both above 40%.
will continue to invest to support the future of our business in these rapid growth markets.
During the year, we commissioned several In our Specialist Technologies, we achieved double-digit revenue 3 new LPC and S P lines.
In HIP Services we acquired the HIP assets 3 growth across our Specialty Stainless Steel Processes S P, low from Doncasters Group Limiteds UK business and a new mega-HIP pressure carburising LPC and Corr-I-Dur CiD technologies.
was ordered for Europe which will come online in 2018.
Further However, several factors dragged on overall sales growth during the new facilities are expected to be commissioned in 2018 for both year.
The HIP Product Fabrication HIP PF and Surface Technology Specialist Technologies and Classical Heat Treatment in our focus businesses are focused largely on oil & gas outside of the USA, geographies and markets.
The additional capacity that will come on with particular emphasis on subsea and these revenues continued stream in 2018 will add to our ability to deliver strong growth and to decline.
In addition the weakness in IGT volumes resulted in a superior return on sales over the coming years.
slowdown in the HIP Services business towards the end of the year.
Also impacting our HIP Services business was an unplanned We also continue to look at acquisition and investment outage during the second half which was fully resolved by year opportunities that will grow our business.
Forecast growth in all the Specialist Technologies looks strong.
small bolt-on facilities that can provide us with infills to our existing network.
Where opportunities to buy such facilities do not exist, The five sites we acquired in 2016 are performing well.
They we will build new facilities: these obviously have a ramp-up period, are all Classical Heat Treatment sites within the AGI division and but have the advantage of being designed exactly in line with the contributed 23.0m of revenue in 2017, with return on sales in line Groups technology and operational efficiency focus.
It is also worth highlighting that revenues at these we have invested 164m in both acquisitions and investment for facilities have accelerated since coming into the Group as a result growth in new and existing facilities, with revenues from the latter of the benefits derived from being part of the Groups network of still ramping up as these plants typically take 35 years to reach full facilities.
With careful cost discipline in the face of growing revenues, Organisation and people the Groups headline operating profit grew 24% to 123.9m Bodycote is a service business, and first-class service is delivered 26% growth in statutory operating profit to 119.4m and the by passionate and professional people, who understand their return on sales improved to 18.0% 2016: 16.6%.
Once again, customers needs and meet their demanding requirements time we increased our prices ahead of cost inflation.
This is an area of and time again.
We will continue to invest in training and developing heightened focus for the Group especially as we are entering a our employees to ensure that our talented workforce remains one period of higher input cost inflation in some markets.
It is worth of our competitive advantages.
noting, however, that Bodycote typically performs well in higher inflationary environments.
Summary and outlook 2017 has once again demonstrated the quality of Bodycotes The Groups strong profit improvement, coupled with a headline tax business.
Strong growth was achieved through contributions rate of 22.9% 2016: 27.5%, increased basic headline earnings per from contract wins on automotive and aerospace programmes, share to 49.2p 2016: 37.0p.
Basic earnings per share increased to excellent growth in Emerging Markets where our investments are 51.0p from 35.2p.
yielding good returns, and broad-based growth across the general industrial sectors, an element of which was due to some customer The return on capital employed rose in the current year to 19.3% restocking.
The Groups revenue growth, combined with continued discipline Free cash flow increased to 83.0m 2016: 60.5m as a result on costs, helped lift headline operating profit by 24%.
Return on of our improved profitability and in spite of increased capital sales increased to 18.0% from 16.6%.
expenditure to support the future growth of the business.
Headline operating cash conversion was, once again, above 90%, yielding a To ensure that the business continues to deliver good results, we net cash position at the end of the year of 39.6m 2016: 1.1m.
will continue to focus on efficiency, maintaining price discipline in light of increasing inflation across many economies, and the Strategic progress execution of our successful strategy.
The Groups strategy encompasses the drive for operational efficiency and improvement in return on sales: growth in markets Our business, by its nature, has limited forward visibility, but we with higher long term structural growth: the expansion of the have entered the year with good momentum.
Accordingly, and in Groups footprint in rapid growth markets: the focus on revenue spite of the foreign exchange headwind at current exchange rates, growth in Specialist Technologies: and growth through targeted 2018 has started in line with our expectations.
acquisitions, where these are more attractive than investing in new facilities.
The Group has a minimum 20% hurdle rate return when looking at investments.
S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive During 2017 we made further progress against our strategy, 6 March 2018 delivering higher Group return on sales of 18.0%.
We believe there is still the opportunity to further improve from both management led initiatives, particularly in our AGI division, and growth in our higher return Specialist Technologies.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
