STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW In 2017, we made progress on performance and strategy... the organic and inorganic growth opportunities ahead are truly exciting!
The Group has delivered continued SEIZING THE MARKET This is the estimated total value of the progress in revenue, margin and cash OPPORTUNITIES AHEAD global Quality Assurance market, of which performance in 2017, reflecting the At Intertek, our aim is to give our clients only around 20 per cent is currently Group's performance management across the world the uncompromised peace outsourced.
That means that companies discipline focused on marginof mind that builds trust.
across the world manage approximately accretiverevenue growth and cash $200 billion-worth of quality assurance One thing is for certain this is a conversion delivering strong returns for themselves the massive hidden differentiated approach with the forour shareholders.
commercial potential to step up our scale In line with our progressive dividend policy and performance as we move ahead.
Additionally, in our view, there is significant and underpinned by our excellent cash Intertek is facing a tremendous untapped opportunity beyond the $250 generative earnings model and strong opportunity: a global opportunity that we billion, as companies increasingly become balance sheet, we have announced a full currently value at around $250 billion.
aware of systemic risk in their businesses year dividend of 71.3p, an increase of and the need for Total Quality Assurance.
14.3% and are increasing the dividend payout ratio to circa 50% from 2018.
OUR TQA VALUE PROPOSITION The Products and Trade related divisions, COMPONENT SUPPLIERS which represent 94% of the Group's earnings, delivered excellent performance with organic revenue growth of 4.8% at DISTRIBUTION AND CONSUMER constant rates while, as expected, trading RETAIL CHANNELS MANAGEMENT conditions remained challenging in the Resources related division.
Moving forward, the growth opportunities are highly attractive for Intertek as we further leverage our high-quality, Intertek Total Quality Assurance expertise, delivered consistently cash-generative earnings model, built on with precision, pace and passion, the local expert delivery of Assurance, enabling our customers to powerahead safely.
Testing, Inspection and Certification services on a global scale, that together define our unique Total Quality Assurance TQA value proposition.
MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION It remains important to contextualise our performance of 2017 and anticipated future earnings growth, driven by our differentiated growth strategy based on our TQA value proposition and the significant market development opportunities ahead, all underpinned by RAW MATERIALS RESEARCH AND SOURCING DEVELOPMENT the exceptionally deep and broad expertise of our people.
Read more about our TQA value proposition on page 9 14 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer parallel trends: companies investments in Compare this with 50 years ago, when quality and innovation, for example, as well global trade represented only 25 per cent as ever-strengthening regulatory of globalGDP.
standards, increased focus on sustainability, Our global TQA Experts give This burgeoning globalism is driving accelerating global and regionaltrade flows, our clients the ATIC change in the ways that supply chains and increasing demand for energy.
"It is giving corporations Advantage by delivering our Another powerful trend is also at play, theopportunity to focus squarely on their TQA Customer Promise. """
In our global market place, core competencies and take advantage corporations are sharpening their focus on ofnew, decentralised sourcing and LEVERAGING OUR UNIQUE the management of risk in their manufacturing opportunities that are TQAVALUE PROPOSITION increasingly complex supply chain and driving down their costs.
Intertek pioneers the Quality Assurance distribution operations.
This is where industry on a global scale with a fully Assurance comes in and it is why we integrated portfolio of Assurance, have evolved beyond quality control alone Testing, Inspection and Certification ATIC to additionally assure the reliability of THE ATIC ADVANTAGE services.
This is what we call Total Quality clients operating processes and quality Assurance and is what clients increasingly management systems.
want and need in a progressively BUILDING OUR VALUE PROPOSITION complexworld.
It was this recognition that led us to Intertek is the only company to have substantially adapt the Intertek value added the Assurance dimension to the proposition around a new Customer TIC components to offer an integrated Promise.
This Promise commits us to ATIC value proposition to its clients.
Intertek Total Quality Assurance expertise, delivered consistently with So what drove us to take this step?
We precision, pace and passion, enabling our took the simple decision to look at our customers to power ahead safely.
value proposition from the customers perspective.
And this rapidly revealed to Now we can support the existing and us that TQA is what our customers now emerging TQA needs of our customers require, almost regardless of their size, inall areas of their extended Intertek Total Quality their industry or their location.
operations, from R&D, sourcing Assurance expertise, materialsand component suppliers to This is for a very simple reason.
In the transportation, distribution, retail and  with past, companies were primarily focused on consumer management.
the quality control issues around their precision, pace and passion, end-products, raw materials, components This gives our clients the systemic TQA enabling our customers to and assets all of which rely on the solution they want and we believe TQA is power ahead safely efficiency and effectiveness of Testing, set to be an increasingly important Inspection and Certification activities.
requirement in the future, as the trading landscape in which our customers operate Importantly, the demand for TIC continues to become more complex and Read more about our full services components will continue to grow in the global.
And it is already complex today, on page 10 yearsto come, benefiting from a number of almost 60 per cent of GDP is international.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 15 S O E U I T R I R 5 O S I T R P R A C I T G E STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW CEO'S REVIEW continued However, there isa price to pay the price of additional complexity in the supply chain, particularly around the ongoing and accelerating shift to multi-tier sourcing.
EFFECTIVE SALES STRATEGY This is not the only driver of complexity.
GROWTH AND Consumers, too, are becoming more SUPERIOR MARGINCUSTOMER demanding and selective as they seek ACCRETIVE SERVICE PORTFOLIO greater variety, more sustainable and ethically sourced products, better customer service, faster delivery, heightened quality and enhanced value.
This in turn has increased competition, giving rise to STRONG BRAND OPERATIONAL increasing numbers of products and brand PROPOSITION EXCELLENCE choices as well as more trade channels and routes to market.
As a result, the distribution chain too is becoming ever-more complex.
5x5 This additional complexity in both the DIFFERENTIATED STRATEGY supply and the distribution chains is FOR GROWTH heightening the risk of failure at any LIVING OUR DELIVERING number of points, and therefore increasing CUSTOMERSUSTAINABLE CENTRIC the value for organisations of having RESULTS CULTURE granular insight into the risks they face.
Our internal data is telling us that the role of Assurance is increasing significantly.
Moreover, the success that we are deriving DISCIPLINED ENERGISING from the move into Assurance is providing PERFORMANCE OUR PEOPLE hard evidence that TQA is what customers MANAGEMENT want and need.
SUPERIOR TECHNOLOGY OUR DIFFERENTIATED 5X5 STRATEGY FOR GROWTH The lead, already two years in the making, is delivering a commercial advantage for Read more about our 5x5 strategy on page 2 Intertek with our TQA Customer Promise lying at the heart of our 5x5 differentiated LABORATORIES AND OFFICES We want: strategy for growth.
Our employees to be fully engaged in Our 5x5 strategy has one overriding asafe working environment objective to move the Intertek centre 1,000 ofgravity towards those sectors of our To deliver a superior customer service addressable market that will in years to COUNTRIES inAssurance, Testing, Inspection and come deliver both the highest rates of Certification growth and the best available margins.
It is by successfully fulfilling these first two Achieving this aim will accelerate our 100 goals that the next two, more financiallygrowth and help us maximise our share focused, goals will be facilitated: EMPLOYEES ofthat $250 billion iceberg in the fastest and most efficient way possible.
To deliver margin-accretive organic revenue, based on GDP organic growth It is by achieving our five medium-to-long- 43,000 term corporate goals that we believe we To achieve strong cash conversion from will measure progress and achieve against our operations Read more about our global scale this strategy.
onpage 6 Finally, given our highly cash-generative As we are ultimately a people business business model and broad-based whose success depends on the investment opportunities, our fifth goal knowledge, expertise and commitment of isan important shareholder valueour workforce, the first two goals are creationaccelerator: about our people and our clients.
An accretive disciplined capitalallocation policy for Capex and M&Ainvestments 16 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 E G I T C A E R T N S A B 5 L R E U R O S STRATEGIC REPORT targets that genuinely complement and add to our existing expertise.
Read more about our experts in our Operating reviews on pages 22 to 29 During 2016, for example, we made several strategically important acquisitions and investments.
These included ABC Analitic, market leader in the provision of environmental water testing and analytical services in Mexico, and EWA-Canada, a world-leading cyber security business providing security assurance services for products, equipment and networks across multiple industries.
In April 2017, we expanded our global profile in automotive testing with the acquisition of KJ Tech, a leading provider of vehicle, component, lubrication and fuel testing services based in Germany.
A CUSTOMER-CENTRIC Their speed of response, delivering the ORGANISATION rapid, detailed and accurate feedback And in December 2017, with increasing Intertek is uniquely positioned to deliver that clients demand demand for security Assurance services ATIC solutions with a truly global network: resulting from the rapid growth in The ability to manage properly over 1,000 laboratories and offices in connected devices Internet of Things or customer-centric relationships summed more than 100 countries across the 'IoT', the increase in data security up best by one employee who recently world, providing fast and efficient services breaches, and an increasingly diverse said to me the customer is the centre to customers on a local basis.
This is the range of global certification standards and of our universe primary focus of our more than 43,000 security requirements, we further employees.
In order to ensure we are Deep expertise in their subject areas strengthened our global footprint in cyber focused on the needs of our clients at and incisive understanding of customer security Certification and Assurance with thepoint of delivery, we operate a requirements the acquisition of Acumen Security, decentralised business model.
A proven track record of innovating The real strength of Intertek is in its andanticipating the changing needs These acquired businesses are people, its global team of experts.
established, recognised and highly it is both humbling and enormously regarded, and will continue to operate Its in such ways that we aim always to exciting to recognise through every under their own brands within the Intertek live up to the standards set by our interaction with them, that our people family, while bringing us access to founding forefathers.
These most have the most remarkable expertise, additional areas of expertise that we can famously include Thomas Edison, the entrepreneurial capabilities and talent take to new countries and customers.
giant of innovation who is not only forinnovation.
credited with inventing the first practical OUR DEPTH AND BREADTH OF Our people give us the foundations we incandescent lightbulb, the phonograph TQAEXPERTISE need to support our Customer Promise and the movie camera, but who also Customers understand the depth of that sits at the heart of our value created the forerunner of today's expertise that our people have: our proposition.
In short, it is our people who Electrical Testing Laboratories that opportunity is to leverage the breadth of consistently set us apart from our continue to provide Assurance to what we have to offer.
Again, it is competition and they do so by consumers through product performance humbling to appreciate the sheer scope of demonstrating five powerful and safety testing.
Indeed, when our peoples expertise in a range of areas differentiating attributes: manufacturers apply Interteks ETL Listed that covers just about the full range of Mark to their products, the letters ETL business activities undertaken anywhere The consistent quality and precision of carry with them a long history of on the planet.
their findings, conclusions and reports innovation, influence, and independence.
The best way of explaining that breadth is A PIONEERING CULTURE to describe in some detail how our services That spirit of innovation continues today can be applied to the sourcing, production as Intertek people continue to drive the and distribution of a simple product such global development of the Quality as a T-shirt, for example.
And its not just about In such an organisation, it is Read more on page 18 the innovative capabilities of our people obvious that the real strength already within the organisation.
"While our ofIntertek is in its people, primary focus is on organic growth, we are itsexperts. """
constantly seeking the right acquisition INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 17 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW Read more about how our THE T-SHIRT JOURNEY experts are at every stage of the lightbulb journey on page 12 chain and the urgent desire of our people to Ethical Supply Chain We offer our clients the develop new solutions throughout is a key Assessments: we can certify ATICAdvantage, our global differentiator for Intertek: it is in our culture garment factories against a wide TICexpertise combined with that we should, whenever necessary or range of international standards, desirable, develop effective and original ourAssurance Difference.
including Worldwide Responsible solutions to emerging issues.
Accredited Production WRAP, INTERTEK TIC EXPERTISE SA8000 a leading social OUR ASSURANCE DIFFERENCE This starts well before manufacturing accountability certification The Intertek difference comes when we actually begins, with testing of the physical standard and our own widely complement the physical Testing, Inspection and chemical safety of the materials recognised Workplace Conditions and Certification at the critical points with involved.
For example, we can test against Assessment WCA standard end-to-end, truly systemic Assurance the GOTS Global Organic Textile Standard processes.
We achieve this through expert, Supplier Qualification on organic cotton.
The further Testing, in-depth audits and assessments of all the Programme: this is a wide-ranging Inspection and Certification processes that systems and operating processes that are programme that supports a we can apply include: involved.
These take place in enormous coherent and truly world-class High-Volume Instrument numbers during 2017, our 3,000 standard enabling corporations to Testing: here, we test factors professional auditors carried out more than drive continuous improvement in including the air-permeability, 100,000 audits across the world, their benchmarking.
This covers length, strength and colour of the positioning us as significantly the number areas rangingfrom product and cotton fibres prior to shipment one compliance auditorglobally.
process quality to site managementand training Not only is our growing ability to provide Raw Materials & Pre-Production fully bespoke Assurance solutions an Inspection: we help to eliminate Custom and Trade Partnership important competitive advantage it is also any manufacturing variances at later against Terrorism: we help highly attractive from an earnings-model stages in the process by inspecting importing businesses set up policies position, as it is capital-light and delivers the quality and quantity of raw that improve not only their own margins that are greater than the average materials before production begins security practices but those of their across ourGroup.
supply chain partners too Product Testing for Physical and Chemical Safety: at this stage, we Once again, this approach extends far Counterfeiting Assurance: test for a range of the products beyond our customers' own premises.
integrating our Intellectual Property physical and chemical safety Staying with the T-shirt example, we carry IP expertise into our family of attributes, including factors such as out onsite audits and training to ensure the Assurance services enables us to flammability and the presence of any correct usage and treatment of chemicals determine whether partners in the sharp edges in the finished garment throughout the entire length of the supply supply chain pose a risk of chain.
Other Assurance services include: counterfeiting our customers' Final Random Inspection: we products Damage Surveying: we can carry out a detailed inspection of inspect cotton for any damage that finished goods before they proceed Benchmarking: by comparing the might have been sustained during to shipment features and quality of our customers' transit products to industry norms, we can Certificate of Conformity: this is enable informed decision-making on the point at which we certify that Mill Qualification Programme: factors such as performance claims, goods comply with the importing under this key service, we can design and pricing countrys specific health, safety and evaluate a manufacturing suppliers environmental standards quality, environmental and social Cyber Security Assurance: our performance, and certify the mills cutting edge cyber security Retail Store Building Testing: we own in-house lab.
This is a solutions, strengthened by our provide a wide range of Building and particularly important aspect of acquisition of EWA-Canada, provide Construction services thequality assurance process, as protection against ransomware, Commercial and Functional itprovides peace of mind that increasingly sophisticated phishing Claims: we carry out tests on final suppliers are abiding by international scams, distributed denial-of-service products to ensure that they standards and legislation on attacks and more achieve the standards claimed in modern-day slavery and child labour Lifecycle Assessments: we use promotional materials: these can Environmental Chemical cloud-based technology to deliver a include factors like quick-dry, Management Solutions: we sustainability Assurance solution that colour-fastness, thermal resistance ensure proper chemical management enables customers to compute the and waterproofing.
by undertaking thorough testingof carbon footprint of their products, wastewater and sludge as well as Testing, Inspection and Certification is processes and business operations.
onsite auditing and training required to control quality and safety at the high-risk, regulated points of the supply 18 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CEO'S REVIEW continued AN INDUSTRY-AGNOSTIC TQA manufacturing and production processes in high-margin areas and investing in the APPROACH to import and export, the dealership most attractive growth opportunities.
Here, we have only looked at one specific network, customer experience LOOKING AHEAD area of the global apparel industry.
But considerations and into the aftermarket.
We believe that the strength of our 2017 while our service portfolio includes services Once again, we support the manufacturer results demonstrates the attractive that are specific to individual industries and at all the same stages with a bespoke nature of our industry, Intertek's highsectors, Interteks reach is industryrange of Assurance services, from quality earnings model and the agnostic.
We apply our TQA approach to all regulatory compliance assessments and effectiveness of our 5x5 differentiated of the industries with which we work.
design validation planning at the R&D strategy for growth.
We are confident We can demonstrate this by taking stage, through Greenhouse Gas Validation about the structural growth prospects in another example a highly appropriate and Verification Failure Analysis during the global Quality Assurance market.
one given our historical connections to manufacturing and ultimately to Field We are uniquely positioned to seize these Thomas Edison.
This time, we look at how Performance Data Collection Analysis.
We attractive growth opportunities, we provide a TQA solution in support of clearly demonstrate our flexibility when it underpinned by the increased the global manufacturing and distribution comes to factors like emissions and fuel complexities of corporate supply and of a LEDlightbulb, as shown on page 12. consumption for this sort of Assurance distribution chains and the associated work does not take place in the Once again, our TIC services are widechallenges of maintaining a high level of laboratory, but out on the road in ranging: they embrace physical testing and quality assurance end-to-end.
chemical analysis at the copper mine, Leveraging our industry-leading expertise Testing and Inspection during Our industry-agnostic TQA approach and innovative and entrepreneurial culture, manufacturing, packaging Certification for provides our clients with global TIC we service a diversity of industries, the distributor, battery Testing at the expertise and an Assurance Difference: geographies and customers, with our hauliers, and market surveillance Inspection the ATIC Advantage delivered by Intertek global network enabling us to follow the and claims Testing for the retailer.
supply chains of our customers wherever But this is only half the story.
A product OUR GLOBAL TQA EXPERTS they are in the world.
with a global market is naturally subject to The key to our continuing sales growth is We have a strong track record of creating a wide range of complex risks, which is our responsive culture, decentralised sustainable growth and shareholder value, why we complement these TIC services organisation and global network of leveraging our high-margin and highly with our global market Assurance service.
state-of-the-art laboratories and above all cash-generative earnings model.
This is part of our comprehensive the depth and breadth of our peoples Assurance portfolio that helps our expertise: global TQA subject-matter We are moving the Company's centre of customers identify and mitigate the risks experts, who know how to innovate and gravity towards our industry's most that are intrinsic to their operations, solve challenges that nobody has previously attractive growth and margin areas with supplychain and distributed quality been able to overcome.
adisciplined approach to performance management operations.
These are some of the Intertek strengths So, at the mine, physical testing and that enable us to live and fulfil our Core We are on track on our 'good to great' chemical analysis can be underpinned by a Purpose of 'Bringing Quality and Safety to journey, making progress on both Damage Survey, for example.
But they would not be so effective performance and strategy.
energy efficiency Testing and global safety without a clearly defined organisational I am certain that the passion and expertise Certification might becomplemented with structure based around an operating of our people will continue to be the primary global market and packaging evaluation model that always puts the customer differentiator that makes Intertek a true Assurance services.
And even at the retail first.
We maximise the potential returns pioneer in the global Quality Assurance end, a market surveillance initiative accrued from this infrastructure through market.
In short, I am very excited about inspecting product quality might coincide multiple further factors, including: what the future holds for Intertek, its with Assurance services like benchmarking employees, shareholders and customers.
A disciplined and systemic approach to and returns analysis.
financial performance management Above all our TQA Customer Promise of The emerging picture is complex enough Our highly cash-generative earnings Total Quality.
Assured is providing our when we consider relatively simple model clients with the peace of mind they need products like a T-shirt or LED lightbulb.
But to grow their business.
we are every bit as capable of delivering Our capital-light business model, which an end-to-end, integrated TQA service in enables usto respond and adapt rapidly greatly more complex industries, including to the changing needs of our customers automotive manufacturing.
and markets To take a live example, we provide one Our disciplined approach to capital manufacturer with a wide range of TIC allocation, which enables usto support services at every stage of the value chain, organic growth through creating new Andr Lacroix from R&D and raw materials, through services, developing client relationships Chief Executive Officer INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 19
