Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review ANDI CASE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER As the shipping industry evolves, our commitment to hiring the best talent and investing in technology continues to drive growth and provides our clients with marketleading intelligence and innovative tools for trade.
16 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information I am pleased to report another strong performance We continue to place great emphasis on ensuring we from Clarksons in 2017 as the business achieved are the advisors of choice across all of our divisions.
revenue of 324.0m, representing growth of 6%.
This strategy of diversification and being best in class in all verticals has served us well and should be a driver Through our commitment to differentiate our for growth as more of our markets see better times.
offeringby innovating and constantly developing ourcapabilities, we have reinforced our position at Overall, the broking teams enjoyed a successful year theforefront of the shipping industry and delivered as, generally, market conditions improved.
Dry cargo another year of profitable growth, resulting in a performed significantly better during 2017, with spot 15thconsecutive year of dividend growth for earnings reaching the highest level in five years, and ourshareholders.
following a protracted downturn, the offshore markets started to see some signs of renewed interest The continued overall recalibration of the shipping following the sustained strengthening of the oil price markets is a positive sign to the markets.
However, during the second half.
There were also improvements movement in sectoral demand supply balances have seen in the specialised products and futures markets, once again shown how reactive the individual markets with the secondhand sale and purchase team having are to such balances.
The rising cost of steel and a particularly strong year.
currency movements have led to the continued slowing of fleet growth through lower levels of Clarksons Research had another year of strong newbuildings.
This, together with reasonable levels revenue growth as it continues to establish itself as the of end of life recycling enabled by high scrap steel market-leading provider of intelligence and data across prices, are key factors in changing the demand supply the shipping, trade, offshore and energy markets.
2017 imbalance, which in turn supports an improvement in was a period of focused investment in new products rates and asset values in a number of sectors.
and technologies, which muted profit growth, but will provide an improved platform for the future.
Our clients The sector showing most improvement was the dry recognise the invaluable contribution that Clarksons cargo market, evidenced by the strong recovery in the trusted intelligence can provide in both helping them to Baltic Dry Index, although some of these gains were set strategy and enabling fast and effective short-term tempered by other sectors such as deep sea tankers decision-making.
and LPG which saw continued deliveries into already fully supplied markets.
Overall in 2017, the average The financial division performed strongly during the of the ClarkSea Index, which measures earnings for year.
Clarksons Platou Securities completed an most of the main vessels in bulk shipping, was 14% increased number of corporate transactions, including higher than last year.
high profile activity in the equity and debt capital markets, continued activity in restructurings and a As shipping represents in the order of 85% of world number of M&A transactions.
The successful roll out trade, we must always remain cautious of geoof our metals and mining business during 2017 and political and macro-economic factors.
We start 2018, the recent addition of a convertible bond team further as we did 2017, with lower forward visibility of adds to the extensive services we are able to deliver earnings from a lower forward order book.
The project finance market has also reflects both the reduced levels of newbuilding orders seen increased activity, particularly in the real estate and lower period business done in the market in sector, where our team in Oslo have been both busy recent times, as highlighted last year.
Nevertheless, and effective, and the dry cargo and container spot volumes and rates have been improving, which sectors, where clients are looking to benefit from during 2017 more than offset the lower forward order the long awaited upturn.
book brought forward, and produced increased revenue across the business.
com 17 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued The port services team has had another profitable year, having benefited as the year unfolded from the upturn in activity in the oil and gas industry.
The team I am encouraged by the positive has continued to expand into new markets and has made several hires, strengthening its offering.
momentum in the market, with As global trade evolves, we recognise the need to Clarksons well positioned to constantly innovate and improve to strengthen further our leading position in the sector.
During the year, deliver long-term growth and Clarksons has focused particularly on driving digital returns for our investors.
change, investing in developing digital solutions and pioneering innovative technology to shape the shipping industry and complement our existing business.
Whilst it is early days, I am delighted to report increasing adoption of the Clarksons Cloud platform, both internally, where our teams are benefiting hugely from improved information flows and tools to help decision-making and improved connectivity to clients, and externally, where a number of high profile clients have adopted our tools, particularly through our collaboration in launching Recap Manager with the London Tanker Brokers Panel, and more generally through our operations platform, Gateway.
What sets us apart We are constantly In 2017 we welcomed looking at how we can over 200 new increase shareholder employees value by reinvesting in to Clarksons, globally.
our business whether this is in broadening our range of services, growing our global reach, attracting and retaining Continuous investment in technology which the best staff or the is transforming the unique range of transaction lifecycle.
Unique research capability, technological solutions providing insights on all aspects of shipping, trade and we offer.
commercial trends to inform effective decision-making.
18 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Despite industry-leading technology investment, We are encouraged by the rebalancing of supply and in the second half of the year, as announced to the demand we are seeing across the shipping industry, market, Clarksons was subject to a cyber security with activity levels picking up across a number of our incident.
The team responded rapidly and decisively key markets.
The strengthening of the oil price in the and whilst the eventual impact on the business was second half of 2017 has been particularly beneficial to minimal, and at no time was the Clarksons Cloud the offshore markets, whilst our financial teams have impacted, we have put in place extensive additional also profited from an improved economic outlook in security measures to best prevent a similar incident both shipping and offshore.
Increasing levels of happening in the future.
industrial production and continued infrastructure spend in some of the worlds major economies provide A leading edge offering across finance, broking, further momentum for growth in the medium-term.
research, support and technology must be delivered by a first class team, and we have continued to invest Clarksons remains at the forefront of the shipping in the best talent globally as we strive to deliver best industry and our investment in cutting edge digital in class service to all our clients.
Our office network solutions will enable us to offer our clients a unique has grown further to include offices in Japan and and innovative platform to support their business Korea as we continue to supplement our global needs.
Our commitment to providing best in class capabilities with local expert knowledge.
In addition, service, combined with our global reach and we have made a number of key hires in dry cargo, unrivalled market insights, has enabled us to deliver securities, structured asset finance, futures, port another year of profitable growth and market share services, IT, data collection and operations.
I would gains and positions us well for the coming year.
like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication to Clarksons success during 2017.
Andi Case Chief Executive Officer 9 March 2018 Skills-based % training is open to 20 clients, junior brokers, of employees across the globe Evolving the analysts and operators, have completed more than integrated service across a range of model offering office locations.
% 52 54.1m As well as experienced hires, of the workforce free cash resources, Strong, debt-free were committed to training is aged as defined in the financial balance sheet and developing school leavers review on page 41. and consistent and graduates.
We have an dividend growth.
35 excellent track record of attracting young people.
