Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 13 Q&A with Andy Ransom, Chief Executive Things that keep me awake at night?
Well, we have to keep it going.
This year we have delivered Ongoing Weve had a very successful few years so we have to maintain those Revenue growth of 14.5% of which 3.8% levels of execution and pace.
We live in a rapidly moving world and technology is moving fast in all business sectors including ours and was Organic Revenue growth and 10.7% those of our customers.
This represents a potentially transformative was from acquisitions, Ongoing Operating change that is both a risk but more importantly a significant opportunity, and I feel we are well-placed to capitalise on it.
We will be accelerating Profit growth of 14.8% and Free Cash Flow our plans in digital and the deployment of technology across our of 175.8m, all in excess of our financial businesses in 2018, alongside reinforced protection of personal data and defences against IT security threats.
I believe that in our industry targets for 2017. we are leading the way but it is critical that we do not risk complacency.
Our core Pest Control business has again performed strongly with Q.
The Company made 41 acquisitions during 2017.
Is it Ongoing Revenue growing by 21.4%, of which 5.8% was organic.
We are reasonable to expect this kind of level going forward?
also increasingly encouraged by the ongoing traction in our Hygiene A.
The thing about our M&A agenda is that we operate in over 70 business which grew by 7.6% 2.1% organic.
In June we completed our countries around the world and have a focus on acquisitions in all of transaction to form a joint venture with Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH Haniel those markets with a dedicated level of resources deployed to bring to establish a leading provider of workwear and hygiene services in in deals in all of our five regions.
While M&A is an opportunity-driven Europe, created by transferring our Workwear and Hygiene businesses in activity, we have a highly experienced team and a consistent, repeatable Benelux, Sweden and Central and Eastern Europe CEE into CWS-boco model for identifying targets and closing deals in a pretty fragmented set owned by Haniel, retaining a 17.8% interest in the combined entity.
There are tens of thousands of independent, typically familyQ.
What do you believe are your sustainable unique selling owned, private companies around the world many of them operating in the key cities in which we operate or want to operate in the future.
So, points for both your Pest Control and Hygiene businesses?
I think the combination of our expertise, our experience and our model, A.
In Pest Control, we are clearly the most global of the pest control added to the wealth of opportunities that still exist out there, suggest to operators, operating in over 70 countries around the world, and we me that theres still a good source of acquisition opportunities for many have been in business for 90 years under the Rentokil brand, which years to come.
That said, there will obviously be some years where a is the biggest brand in the industry.
We have made a significant and greater number of opportunities present themselves and others where continued investment in innovation in pest control products and there will be fewer and we choose to execute fewer transactions.
But, services and in technology, more recently with our suite of connected for the time being, I think the pipeline and the bench strength and ability devices which we believe will be an important part of the pest control of our M&A team are both as strong as they have ever been we did industry as it continues to modernise through the use of new technology deals in more countries in 2017, 24 in fact, than ever before.
We are a business that has been built on a core belief in the expertise of our colleagues and setting the highest standards of training and execution in the field.
We believe this translates into the best customer service in the industry.
Adding to that, we have a deep We have had a very and fundamental understanding of density and density building and how to create strong margins in both our Pest Control and Hygiene operations by focusing on growing our businesses in core cities and good year, exceeding providing additional services and solutions to our existing customer base.
So, really this is a combination of postcode and customer density our targets for revenue, and we believe this is quite an art, if not a science, and something in which we have a strong level of expertise.
We have also been building profit and cash.
a significant capability in M&A over the last few years which in many cases makes us the acquirer of choice to many other pest control Andy Ransom, Chief Executive businesses who are looking to sell their companies.
After a very successful first few years into your tenure Q.
We hear a great deal about the importance to the asCEO where many things have gone very well, what Company of North America.
Why is this and does such are you most pleased with and what worries about the a mature market offer real and sustainable growth business still keep you awake at night?
In terms of what has gone particularly well, we have a clear, focused plan which we have executed successfully so far.
The first thing to say about the North American pest control market is this plan clearly, both internally and externally, but more importantly, it that it represents around 50% of the global pest control industry, so by has been executed consistently across the Group.
So, I think that is the any standards it is massive.
The pest control market in North America is main key to our success.
The business is performing well and I think growing at around 5% and has been doing so for many years.
External our central model where the organisation and the central support analysts agree that the growth prospects for the region remain good services functions work together to support the business to deliver and are predicting similar growth rates for the next few years.
It is a outstanding customer service is a model which works very well.
We fragmented market so, for us, as well as seeing the opportunity to grow have a culture of great openness and sharing and were all focused organically in commercial, residential and termite sectors, we also see on joined-up delivery between the centre and each of the regions.
a continued and significant opportunity to maintain our acquisition focus We also have a central category leadership model for Pest Control and to build a pest control powerhouse in this, the worlds largest pest and Hygiene, to maintain our leadership position and pipeline of new market.
So, its a really great opportunity and over the last few years products and services, which continues to work successfully.
Weve we have seen phenomena such as bed bugs become a very major got some great things to be proud of, like our safety performance, for part of the industry.
Increasingly, we are also seeing problems in the example.
Also, I think the engagement of our people and the Employer southern states with mosquitoes, which we believe represents another of Choice agenda which we have started to work on is really important.
major opportunity given our appointment by the Federal Governments We now have world-class levels of engagement and enablement Centers for Disease Control and successful work at the Rio 2016 among our colleagues but theres still a big opportunity to keep Olympics to build on this is why we did our recent acquisition of Vector working at short-term retention rates, and ensuring our new colleagues Disease Acquisition, LLC.
So, were very excited about our prospects.
quickly understand how to drive our growth and profitability as well as their incentives, priorities which are strongly aligned.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
