| Chief Executives report Greg Fitzgerald operating structure for the reduced level of Restructuring completions, and our drive for sales from successfully completed older sites and stock properties.
As part of our strategic reorganisation, There is significant opportunity to optimise during the year we implemented initiatives our balance sheet and we made excellent to simplify and streamline our operating progress in the year, resulting in a strong structure, to reduce costs and make us year end cash position.
This has been completed within positioned to make further progress in the 4m restructuring cost taken in FY17.
FY18 with a particular focus on releasing We are now on track to deliver against our investment across our larger sites.
target of overheads as a maximum of 5% of revenue in FY18.
The business starts the new financial year in a much stronger position as a result of We have re-organised our operational all of these initiatives and is ready to drive structure concluding that the business is towards our medium term financial targets best served by seven rather than eight of 23.5% gross margin and 25% return on operating regions.
We merged our Eastern capital employed.
2017 in review and Southern regions creating a South East region and a larger Southern Counties We are pleased to have welcomed Mike The Group has followed a clear region.
With a much greater hands on Stansfield to the Board of Directors in strategic direction and has made approach to management, the proximity November 2017.
Mike has a strong significant progress towards of our developments to each of our housebuilding and customer experience implementing its operational regional offices is a key criterion for background spanning three decades.
I am pleased with our development land acquisition.
Mike has also become a member of the As part of the re-organisation we re-located the outcome for 2017 with the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration our Southern Counties regional office to Committee and the Audit Committee.
business delivering against all Basingstoke, our Northern Home Counties of its operational and financial I have been very impressed by the resilience business to a new permanent office in and dedication of all of the Groups targets for the year.
Milton Keynes, and are soon to re-locate employees over the past 12 months and our South East regional office to Kings We reduced our rate of production to would like to thank them for their hard Hill near Maidstone, all to best serve these allow us to reset the business, improve work.
I am excited about the year ahead geographies.
The business is now well our production processes, and consistently and on making further good progress to balanced in terms of geographic spread of deliver high quality new homes to our returning Bovis Homes to being a leading completions with an even distribution of customers.
As planned, we delivered 3,645 UK housebuilder.
FY16: 3,977 in the year in a controlled We reviewed the efficiency of our in-house Operational update and disciplined manner.
functions to ensure the best value approach In re-setting the business, we have driven Transformed our and have transitioned to an outsourced or sales from our older, lower margin sites customer service partially outsourced model for a number and significantly reduced our levels of both of business areas including legal, planning, Transforming our customer service was the stock and part exchange properties.
number one priority for 2017 and we have There has been a step change in the made very significant progress in the year.
There is a far greater High quality motivated people The Groups HBF Customer Satisfaction operational and commercial focus across People satisfaction is a key strategic priority score is trending well above 80% since all aspects of the business, driven by a for the Group and we are committed the start of the new HBF year 1 October hands on management approach and to investing in the development and 2017, equivalent to a 4 star housebuilder.
facilitated by our new regional structure.
training of our workforce including our Our controlled and disciplined period ends Our sites are set up in the right way from subcontractors.
We have benefitted from in June and December, reflect the step the start with a well managed progressive a full year of input from our Learning and change in the way we are now operating build programme.
Development team and firmly established and the mind-set across the business.
our Bovis Homes Training Centre.
We have invested in our customer service We completed a comprehensive review function in terms of people and training, of our consented and strategic land bank, In the year we have seen really good and appointed our Customer Experience identified sites for disposal outside of our progress in the development of a much Director who has been leading the core operating areas, and took a land write more hands on leadership with a far review of every aspect of our customers down of 3.3m through normal operating greater operational focus.
We continue to experience with Bovis Homes.
invest in the training and development of our seven regional managing directors and As expected, the Groups profitability in the our site teams are now well supported by year was also impacted by a high level of both our regional teams and the Executive build costs within our cost base coming into Leadership team.
Following my initial visit the year, increased investment across the to all of our developments in my first few business, in particular, in process change months with the business, I have re-visited and customer service, an overweight | | 12 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy most developments on at least one Land Margin initiatives occasion, and along with the Executive The fundamentals of our land bank are Leadership team, will continue to be very Driving Group profitability is key for FY18 very strong: building traditional family active across all areas of the business.
and beyond, and we have launched four housing in prime locations predominantly major group wide margin initiatives: The quality of our site managers is critical on greenfield sites.
We have a southern and we are focused on ensuring we have location bias with no exposure to London.
the very best site managers across all We use a high proportion of standard 1.
We have introduced housing and are introducing an element an attractive new remuneration package of bespoke housing where appropriate to We are focused on driving our prices and greater level of training and maximise the value of each development.
across all our products and developments.
development specifically targeted at Given our medium term targets of 4,000 This reflects our priority of controlled volume this group.
We have also revised the completions per annum and a 3.5 to 4.0 growth, high levels of customer satisfaction sales commission structure for our year owned land bank, we slowed our and increased profitability.
In particular, our sales advisors to ensure that they rate of land acquisition in the year.
sales advisors have a new sales commission are better aligned with delivering This has allowed us to be more selective structure which is aligned to optimising price.
margin progression across the Group.
with our land acquisition and with the Investment in the training and land market remaining attractive, the development of our commercial teams land acquired in FY17 is expected to 2.
Specification review is a key focus for FY18.
deliver a gross margin in excess of 26%.
We have made amendments to our build We have had significant success in High quality build specification which have improved the progressing the planning status of our quality of our production with a lower We have focused on improving our build valuable strategic land assets including cost base.
This specification review is procedures and on driving efficiency gaining consent in the year for our ongoing both in terms of the fabric of our and high standards through getting developments at Bishops Stortford, build, and a review of the scope of fixtures it right first time.
We have appointed Witney, Petersfield, Drakes Broughton that are delivered as standard in our homes.
five new regional construction directors and Didcot.
We expect to deliver As a result, we see further opportunities to and invested in our site teams with a c. 10,000 plots from our strategic land optimise both pricing and reduce our costs resulting reduction in the site manager bank over the next 5 years, with through these changes.
the returns exceeding our minimum The slowed rate of production in FY17 hurdle rates.
We will continue to pursue has allowed us to ensure all of our new strategic land opportunities that are 3.
Cost contingency release developments are set up correctly within our core operating area.
from the start, with the construction In FY17 we increased the cost contingency We have great forward visibility on our directors now controlling that process.
across all our developments to 4% on the land bank with 100% of our FY18 land The Group is committed to delivering a basis of what was required and in having detailed planning consent, and high standard of health and safety for light of the operational challenges we 93% of our land for FY19 and 70% for all our employees, subcontractors and were addressing.
We have made significant FY20, already secured.
In the year we brought improvements to our operations and with our health and safety inspections further progress expected in FY18, we Affordable housing in-house which will support a more are targeting to release a proportion of Affordable housing is a very important proactive culture and approach.
part of our business and represents a significant opportunity for the Group.
Progress with commercial We are establishing strong relationships We have invested in a new commercial 4.
New housing range with the registered providers, working system which will be implemented closely with them to understand their We are eagerly awaiting the launch of our across the business in Q2 FY18 and will priorities and ensure support for their new housing range in April 2018, with drive a significant improvement in the initiatives, and strengthening Bovis completions coming through from FY19.
way our commercial teams operate.
Homes reputation in this area.
We are We have undertaken a complete review of It will standardise processes driving best exchanging contracts on our affordable the sales and construction specifications and practice across the Group, support more delivery earlier, reducing our risk and developed an industry leading housing accurate forecasting of our cost base, effectively managing our working capital.
range designed to meet the needs of increase visibility and deliver overall In FY17 we exchanged on 43 affordable todays customer.
The range is for both our improved efficiency.
contracts with 82% of the affordable private and affordable homes and will not content for FY18 now contracted on.
only deliver added value to our customers, it In the year we also entered into an will optimise prices and drive a reduction in agreement with Hampshires largest production costs across the Group.
Housing Association, Vivid, to deliver them c. 75 new homes, both private and affordable, at our development in Boorley Green.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 13 13 | Chief Executives report Greg Fitzgerald Delivering our medium 4,000 completions p. a.
4 star HBF customer term targets satisfaction rating Optimal business size for the Groups operational structure and land bank The Group has set out its medium term Top quartile of the UK housebuilders targets to be achieved by FY20 which will for customer satisfaction Progress in FY17: return Bovis Homes to being a leading Progress in FY17: UK housebuilder and deliver significantly Regional restructuring successfully completed Significant improvement in customer improved returns to our shareholders.
satisfaction with HBF score 1 The management incentive schemes are On track to deliver increase in Oct 17 onwards trending at well completions in-line with market closely aligned to the Groups medium above 80%, equivalent to a 4 star expectations for FY18 in a controlled term targets.
housebuilder and disciplined manner Investment in customer service function including people and training Complete review of the Bovis Homes customer journey led by Customer Experience Director 23.5% gross margin 3.5 to 4.0 year owned 5% administrative expense land bank as a % of revenue Deliver embedded margin within our land bank Manage land investment through Minimise fixed costs, maximise the cycle, minimising risk economies of scale Progress in FY17: Progress in FY17: Progress in FY17: Operational issues addressed Complete review of consented and Focus on getting it right first time Restructuring completed including strategic land banks outsourcing of certain functions New land acquired in FY17 at gross Slowed rate of consented land acquisition margin in excess of 26% Direct selling and marketing, in FY17 planning, design, engineering and Four new major margin initiatives legal costs now included in cost Progress made with divestment of sites launched of sales outside of our core operating areas and progressing with the potential to reduce Investment in information systems to our investment on larger sites deliver benefits from FY18 On track to deliver a maximum 5% overhead in FY18 We have made very good progress Min 180m net cash from 25% return on against a number of these targets balance sheet optimisation capital employed in FY17.
With our focus on Reduction in net assets Increased profitability and balance profitability and completing our sheet optimisation balance sheet optimisation, we Progress in FY17: expect to drive forward the Groups Progress in FY17: 30.5m land disposals financial performance, including Strong focus on effective balance return on capital employed, in FY18.
28.9m reduction in part exchange sheet and cash management properties, 10.0m reduction in Increase in FY18 profitability and stock properties balance sheet optimisation to drive Shared equity disposal with a total significant improvement in ROCE of 28.8m cash proceeds in FY18 | | 14 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Balance sheet optimisation Ordinary dividend and Outlook Optimising the balance sheet represents a capital return plan We started the year with a strong forward significant opportunity for the Group and sales position representing c. 40% of the The Board intends to pursue a strategy we made excellent progress in the year consensus FY18 forecast revenue for the of maximising sustainable dividends towards our target of delivering a minimum Group.
Sales in the first 8 weeks of this year to shareholders.
In setting the level of of 180m of additional cash flow into the have been good with our average private dividends the Board will consider a range business by December 2018. sales rate per site per week up 14% to 0.5. of factors including the extent to which the Pricing has been running slightly ahead of dividend is covered by underlying earnings On land we expect to realise c. 80 to our expectations.
and free cash flow, the prevailing strength 100m of cash and in FY17 we made five of the balance sheet and general economic land sales realising proceeds of 30.5m.
We are confident of delivering growth circumstances, with particular regard to the Our focus in FY18 will be on our larger sites in completions for the year in line with cyclicality of the industry.
including Wellingborough and Sherford, expectations in a controlled and disciplined where we will look to divest a share of manner.
The Board is pleased to recommend a final the development, most likely through a ordinary dividend of 32.5p FY16: 30.0p We expect to drive forward the Groups partnership arrangement.
bringing the total ordinary dividend for profitability with, in particular, the launch of Our initiatives on work in progress are FY17 to 47.5p FY16: 45.0p, representing a our four major margin initiatives.
Combined expected to generate between c. 40m to 6% increase on the prior year.
Based on the with the completion of our balance sheet 80m of cash.
We made good progress in current operating plan and reflecting the optimisation in FY18, we should see a the year with a reduction in our level of part Boards confidence in the outlook for the significant improvement in the Groups exchange properties of 28.9m and stock business, the Board intends to increase the return on capital employed as we progress properties of 10.0m.
Further reductions in ordinary dividend for shareholders for FY18 towards our target of 25% ROCE for FY20.
work in progress levels across the Group is a by a further 20% to c. 57 pence per share.
key focus for FY18, and will be a significant Thereafter it intends to move progressively contributor to the cash delivered this year as towards an ordinary dividend twice covered well as the drive towards our medium term by earnings in FY20.
In addition, the Board intends that surplus Greg Fitzgerald We concluded the disposal of our shared capital will be returned to shareholders via Chief Executive equity portfolio in H2 17, generating special dividends totalling 180m or c. 134 total cash receipts of 28.8m.
We also pence per share in the three years to FY20, completed the disposal of three owned with the first special dividend payment of offices with cash proceeds of 8.4m and 60m or c. 45 pence per share expected to the sale of our site cabins and fork lift be paid towards the end of 2018. trucks.
In total, we expect the disposal of The Group will continue to be strongly non-returning assets to deliver between cash generative and given the balance c. 50m and 60m of cash.
sheet position the Board is committed to reviewing capacity for further returns to Market shareholders over time.
The market fundamentals are strong FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 and we continue to see good levels of demand for new homes across all our Ordinary dividend 47.5p per share c. 57p per share Trend to 2 x cover regions with pricing remaining firm.
Special dividend nil c. 45p per share Total c. 89 pence per share Despite the recent increase in interest rates they remain at historic low levels with good competition in the mortgage lending market.
The Government is committed to increasing the supply of new homes in the UK and their policy on housing and planning, and commitment to Help to Buy, reflect this.
