Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Statement Implementing our strategy for growth less likely to be cut in times of recession.
rate of the other sectors.
These priority Key points in this section: Thisself-generated element of our sectors now represent almost 50% of Successfully implementing our business, combined with the high proportion the divisions sales, compared to 40% in strategy for organic growth of sales that derive from end users 2014.
Also noteworthy, the strategically maintenance and operating budgets, and prioritised Controls and Thermal Energy Acquisition of two outstanding the wide diversity of the markets we serve, Management TEM products, which businesses: Gestra both geographically and by industry sector, represent around 40% of sales and and Chromalox makes our business highly resilient, although are the main constituents of our selfnot immune, to the vagaries of the markets.
generated solution sales, are growing at Delivering long-term a much faster pace than the traditional sustainable value Strategy implementation Condensate Management products.
for stakeholders Four years ago we undertook an extensive We continued to strengthen the strategic review and developed our strategy knowledge and skills of our sales and Introduction for growth, the aim of which is to deliver service teams and to develop our pipeline self-generated growth that outperforms our Our Company purpose is to help our of talent.
By the end of the year the markets.
We identified six Group strategic customers and end users implement training materials of the Spirax Sarco themes, which help us to do better what we  engineered solutions Academy, which was established in 2016 already do well: for energy savings, process efficiency, to oversee the learning and development product quality and improvements in plant increase direct sales effectiveness through of the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties health, safety and regulatory compliance, sector focus: division, were available in 16 languages and to engineer sustainable value for and we had rolled out the Academys develop the knowledge and skills of our stakeholders.
We do this through having expert sales and service teams: initial programmes to almost 1,100 the right products, in the right place, at the customer-facing employees.
Building on broaden our global presence: right time, and an extensive global network the success of our UK Steam Specialties leverage R&D investments: of over 1,600 expert sales and service award winning graduate programme, we engineers with the knowledge and skills optimise supply chain effectiveness: and established a Global Group Graduate required to understand customers difficult operate sustainably and help improve our Programme to attract and develop operational challenges and design bespoke customers sustainability.
engineered solutions to resolve them.
During 2017, notable progress was made in We again expanded our geographical Our direct sales business model is highly the implementation of our strategic priorities, reach, with four new operating units effective at uncovering opportunities to which was a significant contributing factor to commencing trading at the start of the improve customers steam systems, the good financial results and strong organic year: Spirax Sarco East Africa Kenya, electrical heating and temperature growth achieved during the year: Watson-Marlow Indonesia, Watsonmanagement systems, or fluid path Marlow Thailand and Watson-Marlow We continued increasing the alignment processes.
As they walk our customers Vietnam, and established a Spirax between our direct sales force and our facilities, our specialist engineers are Sarco direct sales presence in Greece, target industries of Food & Beverage: able to identify unrecognised needs.
Sri Lanka and Morocco, and in UAE to Healthcare: Pharmaceutical: Oil, Gas The engineered solutions required to meet & Chemical: and OEM customers, support Watson-Marlow sales expansion these needs generally have a relatively short in the Middle East.
In recognition of supported by developments in our R&D payback period of around 24 months or our successful international growth, in processes, manufacturing capabilities, less and, crucially, are typically paid for out 2017 Watson-Marlow Ltd and BioPure marketing and training materials.
In the of our customers operational budgets.
Technology Ltd won a combined Queens Spirax-Sarco Steam Specialties division, Purchasing decisions are therefore made at the organic growth rate of these priority Award for Enterprise, in the International operational level from budgets, which are Trade category.
sectors strongly outpaced the growth Notable progress was made in the implementation of our strategic priorities, which was a significant contributing factor to the good financial results and strong organic growth achieved during the year.
Nicholas Anderson Group Chief Executive 06 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report We made two significant acquisitions, The implementation of the Group Gestras strength in a number of product Gestra and Chromalox, which increased Sustainability Strategy remained a key areas, such as industrial boiler control our market share and expanded our priority and good progress was made systems, and end applications, such as the addressable market and successfully in a number of areas.
During the year German chemical industry, complement the integrated the two acquisitions made in we increased the number of Health and Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties divisions 2016, Aflex and Hiter Controls.
Safety professionals within the business, product offering and industry reach.
With the rolled out our Supplier Sustainability Code help of the Spirax Sarco global footprint, Almost thirty new products were launched to direct suppliers of our sales companies, we believe that the combination of the during 2017.
Watson-Marlow launched established a network of community two entities will enhance organic growth the innovative and award-winning engagement champions across the Group opportunities going forward.
Quantum peristaltic bioprocessing pump and launched a Community Engagement with patented ReNu SU Technology Chromalox represents an excellent Award to recognise and raise awareness cartridge, which offers a step change opportunity to expand our addressable of the activities that are taking place in pump technology enabling higher markets through the acquisition of a clearly across the Group.
We also reduced our downstream process yields with minimum related business that is also dedicated global carbon emissions intensity by 4%.
pulsation throughout the pressure range.
to transferring heat energy into industrial Other product launches from Watsonprocesses and shares our strong direct Acquisitions Marlow include: a patented single-handed sales business model.
As we invest in Our Group acquisitions strategy outlines our and tool free sanitary tri-clamp for use in strengthening Chromaloxs direct sales key acquisition criteria.
Acquisitions should: the Biopharmaceutical industry, called channels and leverage our global footprint have the potential to create significant QClamp, from BioPure: the Flexicon and expertise, this acquisition will enhance shareholder value and either increase PF7, a benchtop filling pump for use our growth and sustainable value creation for our addressable market into related in cleanroom environments: and range customers and shareholders.
sectors or expand the capabilities of our extensions of the Certa pump, for use in Both acquisitions were accretive to Group niche businesses through new skills, the Food & Beverage industry.
The Spirax earnings in 2017 and were positively technologies or geographic coverage: Sarco Steam Specialties division launched received by customers and employees.
multiple new products including the serve customers through a direct sales The integration of both businesses into SIMS Software energy monitoring business model: the Group has proceeded very positively and targeting solution, which enables and remains in line with the integration increase sales in our core markets: real-time monitoring and visualisation of plans reported at the time of their customers steam and thermal energy provide products or services where there respective acquisitions.
Amongst other new product is a high cost of non-performance to introductions, Chromalox introduced the the customer: Engineering opportunities for CCX Cast Block Heater, for use in high sustainable value creation have the potential for geographical or pressure environments: and the CXHXD technology expansion: As a socially responsible business, we corrosion-resistant, explosion-proof Unit recognise the importance of operating in a have strong maintenance, repair and Heater, for use in hazardous or challenging way that delivers long-term sustainable value overhaul demand and recurring revenues: environments, such as offshore for all stakeholders.
This year we engineered and drilling platforms.
opportunities to strengthen the Groups basis be capable of achieving Group margins.
To further develop the capacity and for organic growth: served over 100,000 efficiency of our supply chain, we direct buying customers, enabling them During 2017, a unique opportunity arose to accelerated the capital investment to improve process efficiency and reduce acquire two outstanding businesses, Gestra programmes designed to modernise and their environmental impacts: invested and Chromalox.
Both companies have long renew our manufacturing equipment and extensively in developing the skills and and successful histories.
Industrial boiler completed the expansion of our statecapabilities of our employees: developed controls and steam specialist Gestra of-the-art manufacturing facility in China.
new products: expanded our geographical was founded in Germany in 1902 and We also established a new distribution reach: engaged with our local communities electrical process heating and temperature hub for the Steam Specialties division in to help meet their needs: reduced our own management solutions provider Chromalox Singapore, which is designed to improve CO emissions intensity: maintained the was founded in the USA in 1917, with both 2 the efficient distribution of products Group operating margin and delivered the companies bringing distinct opportunities for and increase customer service levels 50th year of dividend progress, all of which growth and expansion to the Group.
throughout the Asia Pacific region.
has been achieved whilst delivering strong organic growth.
Nicholas Anderson Group Chief Executive 14th March 2018 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 07 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
