CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT IRAKLI GILAURI CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In what is expected to be my final letter to We have again delivered on all of our key The Groups capital and funding position BGEO Group shareholders I would like to strategic priorities.
2017 revenue growth of remain strong, with capital being held both talk about three subjects: 17.5% was particularly supported by strong in the regulated Banking Business and at the Retail Banking franchise growth, where revenue holding company level.
The outstanding performance of the Group increased by 24.4% and customer lending liquid assets totalling GEL 310 million were 2.
Simplicity is a key ingredient to our future continues to grow at more than 20% per held at the holding company level.
Within the success, which drove our difficult decision annum.
This offset the anticipated decline in the Banking Business, the NBG Basel II Tier 1 to demerge Corporate Investment Banking loan portfolio, as Capital Adequacy ratio increased by 120 basis 3.
Our determined and high-achieving Board we wound down the banking relationship with a points to 10.3% during the year, reflecting both small number of significant corporate borrowers, the continued fide-dollarisation of the Banking PERFORMANCE earlier in 2017.
Importantly, this helped us to Business lending portfolio and the Banking BGEO Group delivered another extremely make strong progress in reducing concentration Business high return on average equity and strong performance during 2017 that resulted in risk in the Corporate Investment Banking, and internal capital generation.
record profit for the year of GEL 463 million, and we lowered the concentration of our top ten earnings per share of GEL 11.61, an increase of corporate borrowers to only 10.7% of our lending The National Bank of Georgia is currently 11.5% year-on-year.
We have now exceeded our targeted in the process of transitioning to Basel III by 23.7% to GEL 1.1 billion.
Book value per rebalancing of the retail corporate portfolio mix to standards, and introduced new capital adequacy share at the end of 2017 was GEL 65.22, further improve the return profile of the Banking requirements in December 2017.
On the basis of up 15.2% year-on-year.
Retail Banking now represents 68% new regulation, the NBG Basel III Tier 1 capital performance from our Banking Business as of the Banks customer lending and Corporate adequacy ratio was 12.4% at 31 December well as strong momentum and strategic delivery Investment Banking represents 32%.
2017, compared to a new minimum Tier 1 from our Investment Businesses, which were capital requirement of 9.9%, which is expected supported by Georgias strong macroeconomic In addition to the strong retail lending growth, to increase to 11.4% on 31 December 2018. performance and business outlook.
Retail Banking made strong progress in Bank of Georgia has strong capital ratios and implementing its customer-centric approach high levels of internal capital generation.
As a In the Banking Business, 2017 was with the launch of its new loyalty reward result, the transition to Basel III is not expected characterised by strong franchise growth in programme Plus in July 2017, and continued to affect the Banks growth expectations or Retail Banking operations, particularly in the investment in digital growth.
Our product to existing dividend payout policy.
This reflected the continued client ratio also improved from 2.0 to 2.2 during strong performance of our retail business in the second half of 2017.
In July 2017, we won The Groups Investment Business continued all segments and an increase in retail lending the exclusive right to modernise public transport to deliver strong growth and performance, with during the year of 29.3%.
In addition, in 3Q17 payment system in Tbilisi and continue as the EBITDA growing 55.7% year-on-year, and profit we completed our three-year programme to sole provider of the Tbilisi Metros payment before non-recurring items and income tax, reduce concentration risk in our Corporate support systems for the next ten years.
In including discontinued operations, increasing Bank and consequently started to deliver addition, Solo, our premium banking brand, has by 21.4% over the same period.
corporate lending growth in the last quarter continued to deliver strong growth momentum, of the year.
Loan yields have remained stable, with customer numbers increasing to 32,104, We now expect that, in line with our planned and net interest margins have therefore up 66.6% over the last 12 months.
Solo is on exit strategy for the business, it is highly stayed robust at 7.3%.
Costs have remained track to achieving its target of 40,000 Solo probable that the Group will own less than well-controlled, whilst ensuring continued clients by the end of 2018. a 50% stake in Georgia Healthcare Group investment in building an increasingly strong GHG at the end of 2018.
As a result, GHG is customer franchise.
The Banking Business The improving growth and strength of the now reported under discontinued operations cost of risk ratio in 2017 was 2.2%, in line Georgian economy continue to support asset in the Groups consolidated income statement.
with our medium-term cost of risk expectations, quality.
In addition to the reduction to 2.2% Within the business, GHG delivered a year of and a significant reduction from 2.7% in 2016. in the cost of risk ratio mentioned above, we strong progress towards its planned investment In addition, we have continued to improve our were able to reduce the ratio of NPLs to Gross and business roll-out in all key areas of the asset quality and provisions coverage ratios.
Loans, which fell from 4.2% in December 2016, Georgian healthcare system.
GHG delivered net The Return on Average Equity in the Banking to 3.8% in December 2017.
Our NPL coverage revenues of GEL 745.7 million during the year, Business continued to improve, and stood ratio also improved from 86.7% at the end of an increase of 76.0%, reflecting a combination at 25.2% for the year, and 27.8% in the December 2016, to 92.7% at the end of 2017. of solid organic growth and the impact of fourth quarter.
08 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC acquisitions.
The healthcare services EBITDA its distribution capabilities by signing major thirdIn its final year before the forthcoming margin continues to be strong at 26.4%, party partnership agreements with two Georgian demerger, and supported by the continued notwithstanding the dilutive effect of the banks Liberty Bank and Credo Bank which macroeconomic performance of Georgia, significant roll-out of the two major hospital will support the further diversification of Aldagis BGEO Group has delivered a record breaking renovations Tbilisi Referral Hospital and Deka multi-channel distribution network.
These performance in terms of profitability and growth.
and the ongoing roll-out of a nationwide contracts would not have materialised had Growth and return momentum is there for both chain of polyclinics outpatient clinics.
In the it not been for the proposed demerger.
the Banking and the Investment Businesses.
pharmacy business, we have made significant progress towards the integration of our two Our beverage business, Teliani, increased its BOARD recently acquired businesses, whilst avoiding revenues by 102.5% year-on-year, continued to Our Boards role in the success of the any significant business disruption.
As a result, diversify its distribution portfolio and launched Group may not always be apparent to our the EBITDA margin of 8.6% for the year has its mainstream beer and lemonade production shareholders or the broader community but already exceeded our target of a margin of during 2017. it is pivotal.
Each Board members dedication, more than 8%.
vision, rationalism and collaboration have made The Group Board expects to recommend a an important contribution to our development Our water utility and energy business, GGU, regular annual dividend for 2017 totalling c. GEL into the world-class institution we have continued to focus on improving efficiencies in 120 million.
This is in the range of our regular become.
Special thanks go to Neil Janin, the water utility business and delivered a 6.1% dividend payout ratio target of 25-40% paid our Chairman whose leadership of the board year-on-year growth in revenues during the from the Banking Business profits.
Since 2010, and active involvement in strategy setting and year, whilst achieving a 52% EBITDA margin.
the Group has grown its annual dividend per mentoring of senior management has been GGU has also continued to achieve efficiencies share by 40% CAGR on a GEL basis, and by critical in the success of our Group.
The in its own energy consumption, to free up 32% CAGR on a Dollar basis.
If the expected good news is that Neil will continue to be electricity for third-party sales, and has started demerger is successfully implemented as the Chairman of Bank of Georgia.
We have a number of investments in additional capacity planned, it is intended that Bank of Georgia continued our commitment to a strong and for electricity generation with the goal to Group PLC the then new parent company independent governance structure and have establish a renewable energy platform.
During of the Banking Business, will instead, shortly managed to put first-class independent Boards 2017, GGU commenced construction of one after the demerger is completed, declare and and management teams in both businesses of two planned hydro power plants targeting pay a dividend in a similar aggregate amount and I am confident that under the proposed c. 100MW of additional capacity over the next to shareholders then on the record.
In the governance structure following the demerger few years.
event that the demerger is for any reason not both companies independently will prosper completed it is intended, subject to shareholder even more and will continue their excellent 2 Our real estate business, m Real Estate, approval, that the Board would implement the recent track record for many years to come.
continues to demonstrate its strong execution payment of this dividend, which would represent skills to unlock value in the real estate a payment of GEL 3.1 per share, payable in In what is expected to be my final letter to 2 development business.
During 2017, m British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate, shareholders, I would like to thank you for sold 629 apartments with a total sales value a 19.2% increase over the 2016 dividend.
your continuous support and loyalty.
I have of US$ 49.1 million, in addition to further very much enjoyed meeting you on roadshows, increasing its portfolio of yielding assets.
In addition to the regular annual dividend paid which served as very good guidance for me In addition, the real estate business continued to shareholders, US$5.0 million was returned personally.
I have learned a great deal over to execute on its strategy of developing 1,000 to shareholders by way of the buyback and the past 13 years of being an executive of hotel rooms by the end of 2020.
In the fourth cancellation of 115,608 shares during 2017, a publicly listed company and believe, with quarter of 2017, we acquired the shell of as part of the existing Board approved US$50 your help, a lot more learning will follow in the approximately 100-room hotel, and in February million buyback and cancellation programme.
I am very much looking forward 2018 we launched a 152-room Ramada During 2017, the Group Employee Benefits to meeting you to discuss our strategy in my Encore hotel in central Tbilisi.
As part of our Trust also purchased shares in the market new capacity as CEO of the first publicly listed 2 asset light strategy, m signed its largest totalling US$34.1 million.
investment company from the region.
ever franchise agreement to construct and 2 develop a residential complex under the m SIMPLICITY Sincerely yours, brand name on a third-party land plot in a In July 2017, the Group announced its intention densely populated Tbilisi suburb.
Additionally, to demerge BGEO Group PLC into two 2 m s construction arm gained its first major separate London-listed businesses: a banking Irakli Gilauri, third-party construction agreement to construct business, Bank of Georgia Group PLC, and an Chief Executive Officer the shell and core of a new shopping mall and investment business, Georgia Capital PLC.
On 7 March 2018 business centre in Tbilisis Saburtalo district.
12 February 2018, the Group announced that These developments underpin an extremely the Board has approved the implementation of successful year for the real estate business, the demerger, which is subject to shareholder and provide significant growth potential over approval at a General Meeting expected to be the next few years.
The demerger is expected to complete before the end of June 2018.
The Our property and casualty insurance business, main benefit of the demerger is to simplify the This Strategic Report as set out on pages Aldagi, continues development of a strong structure, which in turn will enable the Boards 2 to 75 was approved by the Board of portfolio of new products, supporting 24.6% and management teams of the respective Directors on 7 March 2018 and signed year-on-year growth in net earned premiums businesses greater focus on strategy setting on its behalf by during 2017 and Aldagis position as the and execution.
It was not an easy decision to clear market leader in the fast-developing separate the Group, but simplicity will bring so Irakli Gilauri Georgian P&C insurance market.
Over the much benefit that it has clearly out-weighed all Chief Executive Officer last few months, Aldagi has also enhanced the potential downsides.
7 March 2018 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 09 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
