Strategic Management Chief Executives review Following our acquisition of RAI, and the progress we are making with NGPs, we can now accelerate our ambition to transform tobacco Nicandro Durante Chief Executive 12 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information From 2018, the Group will introduce a However, while trading conditions remain Leading the industry new metric called Revenue Growth of our challenging in a number of markets, including The Group delivered another set of strong Strategic Portfolio, replacing the Global ad hoc excise increases and increasing illicit financial results in 2017, despite a challenging Drive Brand GDB & Key Strategic Brand consumption, 2017 again saw the Group trading environment.
Following the KSB volume growth metric.
To provide deliver on its high single-digit earnings transformational deal in July 2017, these the comparator against which 2018 will be growth commitment on an adjusted basis, results benefit from the acquisition of Reynolds measured, Revenue of our Strategic Portfolio increasing adjusted diluted earnings per share American Inc. RAI while also demonstrating in 2017 would have been 16,711 million by 14.9% to 284.4p, or 9.9% at constant the strength of theorganic business.
assuming we had consolidated RAI for a rates of exchange.
The Group has delivered outstanding returns to full 12 months and after recognising the Group structural changes shareholders for many years.
We recognise that impact of implementing the new accounting the tobacco and nicotine industry has entered requirements of IFRS 15.
Having the right organisational structure will a dynamic period of change.
Increased public set us up for continued long-term success as Strong results across our health awareness, new societal attitudes and a truly global multi-category business, with rapid developments in new technologies have portfolio of products NGPs embedded at the core.
all combined to create a unique opportunity Notwithstanding the good progress we are With the NGP business set for significant to accelerate the delivery of our long-held making with our potentially reduced-risk expansion and growth, we decided to ambition to provide our consumers with less products, combustible cigarette products integrate it into our existing geographic risky tobacco and nicotine choices.
remain at the core of our business delivering structure.
This has enabled us to begin fully growth today and providing the funds Since 2012, together with RAI, we have leveraging the scale and expertise of the required for investing in the future.
I am invested approximately US$2.5 billion in the whole Group to drive growth in an area that is therefore pleased that 2017 saw the Group growth of our Next Generation Product NGP fast becoming a key part of our core business.
yet again deliver another good performance.
business comprising vapour and tobacco In order to address the key opportunities heating products THPs.
Following the The Groups cigarette market share in its Key and challenges we face going forward, we acquisition of RAI, not only have we become Markets continued to grow strongly up 40 recognised the need to ensure the combustible the worlds leading vapour company, we bps.
This was powered by another excellent business operates even more efficiently than have also significantly increased the size performance by our GDBs, which grew 110 ever before.
To achieve this, we created three of our existing oral tobacco and nicotine bps ex US and now account for more than new regions Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa: business with the addition of leading snus 50% of Group cigarette and THP volume Europe and North Africa: and Asia-Pacific and and moist snuff brands in the US.
Over the year, market share in Middle East in place of the previous four.
we refer to these products as our potentially the US also grew strongly and was up 20 bps, The creation of these three new regions has reduced-risk products.
with the RAI Strategic Brands growing 40 bps.
simplified the existing structure by rationalising Our investments are now coming to fruition the complexity and scale of existing direct Total Group cigarette and THP volume grew and, recognising that not all consumers are reporting business units DRBUs and has 3.2% to 686 billion, or on an organic basis fell the same, we now have an unrivalled range pushed decision making further down the 2.6%, outperforming the industry, which was of exciting and innovative products across the organisation by creating fewer, larger DRBUs.
estimated to have declined by around 3.5%.
potentially reduced-risk categories including, These changes took effect from 1 January 2018 In 2017, we also made excellent progress vapour, THPs, oral tobacco, tobacco-free and the revised regional structure will therefore withour NGP business.
Our flagship THP, nicotine pouches and moist snuff.
With the form the basis of our reporting going forward.
glo, first launched in Japan in December increased size and scale coming from RAI, we To facilitate these changes, we created the 2016, reached 3.6% market share by the end are clear leaders in the potentially reduced-risk new role of Chief Operating Officer for the of 2017 having been rolled out nationally product space and we are confident of leading International business reporting directly from October 2017.
Since then, 50% of the the NGP category.
This year we generated NGP to me and managing our global business overall category growth in Japan has been revenue of 397 million.
On a full year basis, outside the US.
The President and CEO of from glo demonstrating its strong consumer including the contribution from RAI, this would RAI also reports directly to me and leads appeal in a very short period.
Good initial have been approximately 500 million and we our business in the US reflecting its scale progress is also being made in our other expect this to double in 2018 to 1 billion, rising and the importance of ensuring a smooth launch markets of South Korea, Russia, to more than 5 billion in 2022. integration that does not impact ongoing Canada, Romania and Switzerland.
New Strategic Portfolio of brands In the vapour category, Vype is now present In light of the evolution of the business, in nine markets and we remain the market Confidence in future growth with the addition of leading brands in the leader in the UK, with Vype and Ten Motives The Groups results in 2017 are testament to US, aswell as the growing importance and combined delivering around 40% share of our commitment to delivering strong results for progress of our potentially reduced-risk measured retail in December 2017.
We also shareholders whilst at the same time investing products, we have taken the opportunity lead the vapour category in Poland.
In the US, substantially in the long-term future of the toestablish a new portfolio of priority brands the Vuse range of products continues to have business.
Following our acquisition of RAI, and which we will in future refer to as our a significant presence in the market.
We see the progress we are making with NGPs, we Strategic Portfolio.
the rapidly developing vapour category, as can now accelerate our ambition to transform a whole, contributing significantly to our This Strategic Portfolio comprises our existing tobacco.
With the right people, products and long-term growth ambitions in NGPs.
GDBs, combined with RAIs Strategic Brands strategy we are ideally positioned to deliver Camel, Newport and Natural American greater choice for our consumers, potential The Groups financial performance was Spirit.
Also included is our portfolio of benefits for society as a whole and long-term positively impacted by the accounting for potentially reduced-risk products, including sustainable value for shareholders.
the acquisition of RAI and the subsequent our key oral tobacco brands and NGP brands US tax reforms.
These drove diluted earnings Nicandro Durante in vapour and THP.
Further details can be pershare up by over 600% to 1,830.0p.
Chief Executive found on pages 16 and 17.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 13
