Strategic Report Q&A with Interim Group Chief Executive Q&A with Interim Group Chief Executive Q.
How would you describe current US B&GA market conditions?
The B&GA market is looking positive.
It showed good growth in 2017 in the USA growth was 3.1% in the first half and 4.1% in the second and, as we look into 2018, we are encouraged by a positive outlook for the US economy, with expected continued growth in GDP underpinned by tax reforms.
Within the different customer segments, charter traffic demonstrated particularly strong year on year growth.
In the first half of the year, Signature grew in line with the market despite the short-term impact of combining the two commercial books of Landmark and Signature and transitioning key customers onto new commercial agreements.
In the second half, we outperformed a more buoyant B&GA market as the new commercial agreements bedded down and new traffic patterns established.
What is the enlarged Signature network capable of?
Signature now has 198 locations across the world.
Of the top 200 B&GA airports in the US, Signature is present at locations where 68% of fuel is burned, and we are located at key B&GA centres outside the US, in Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.
These are in the places that our customers want to fly to and where they know they will receive the same industry-leading service from our highly trained Signature team.
We have built relationships with these customers and we continue to invest in the quality of experience and I have greatly enjoyed this in the quality and range of our infrastructure, our service offering period as Interim Group Chief and our technology, so that they continue to choose Signature.
Our goal is to continue to grow operating profit ahead of the market.
I am extremely proud of our people their Q.
How does Aftermarket Services fit with the Group going forward?
A. Ontic offers us scalable investment opportunities that have an energy, their commitment, attractive return on invested capital and enable us to grow our portfolio of IP-protected products.
The team has demonstrated their integrity and their focus real diligence and expertise on the evaluation of prospective has established the momentum licences and we are now regarded as a trusted counterparty for maturing and legacy aircraft parts that are either replaced through that we take into 2018. wear and tear or as part of regular service cycles.
Furthermore, as our scale has increased, our key OEM partners have shown Wayne Edmunds, an increased willingness to grow their relationships with us, as Interim Group Chief Executive demonstrated by the steady stream of new licence deals we have agreed, particularly in the latter part of 2017.
As we announced on 1 March 2018, we are currently conducting a strategic review of the ERO business, although there is no certainty that this will result in a transaction being agreed.
4 Strategic Report Q&A with Interim Group Chief Executive Q.
What would you say are the priorities of the new Group Q.
Of what are you most proud?
A. I have greatly enjoyed this period as Interim Group Chief Executive.
A. BBA Aviation completed its annual strategic review and goal Of course, I knew the business well having been a member of setting process at the end of 2017 and our goals have been the Board since 2013, but this role has given me a completely cascaded throughout the Group.
As a member of the Executive different perspective.
I am extremely proud of our people they Management Committee, Mark has been deeply involved in the have truly risen to the challenge and delivered in what has been a process and, as Group Chief Executive, he will take responsibility very busy year.
Their energy, their commitment, their integrity and for delivering them.
Having spent ten years with BBA Aviation in their focus on the goal has got us to where we are today and has a range of senior roles he has a detailed knowledge of how the established the momentum that we take into 2018. business works and will be able to hit the ground running.
I am also very proud that we have proven we can deploy a large I have no doubt that his key priority will be to maintain the tranche of capital very effectively.
Landmark was a large and truly momentum that we have achieved in recent years not just transformational addition to the Group and has been integrated in business performance but in all the underlying things that very successfully, putting us in a great position to move forward.
contribute to it: our focus on service and growing our offer to the customer: our focus on understanding the customer through better use of data: and the deployment of new technology to improve our processes and make us more efficient operators.
In this regard, Mark has been a key facilitator of our recent investment in Victor, a leading on-demand private jet charter company, where we will explore, in partnership, cutting edge ways to better serve the passengers, operators and aircraft owners using our network.
And, finally, that we continue to deploy capital wisely.
Mark shares my determination to ensure that BBA Aviation is a safe place to work and a great place to work and that we remain committed to being a responsible company.
This is valued by our employees and by potential employees and we want to make sure that we continue to attract and retain the best talent.
Passenger lounge area with ramp view at Signature San Diego.
What can you say about the review of BBA Aviations capital structure?
A. BBA Aviation is now predominantly focused on the B&GA market.
It was therefore appropriate that we reviewed our capital requirements and leverage appetite ready for the next stage of our development.
Our cash generation characteristics are very strong and we believe an increase in our leverage range is appropriate, hence the increase in the range to 2.5x3.0x.
We ended the 2017 financial year towards the bottom end of this range.
We will continue to deploy capital where we see the opportunity to generate good risk-adjusted returns and our investment priorities are focused on delivering organic underlying operating profit growth above B&GA market growth and investing in bolt-on acquisitions and IP licensing arrangements at Ontic.
The Group remains disciplined in its approach to the allocation of capital, with the overriding objective being to enhance shareholder value.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy with the aim of increasing dividends in line with long-term underlying growth in earnings.
Any surplus cash after satisfying the investment opportunities of the business and funding dividends will be returned to shareholders.
