STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers review Overview It has been a year of excellent operational and strategic development for Dominos Pizza Group, with continued organic growth in established markets enhanced by an increasing presence in a number of newer markets.
We are seeking to build a portfolio of assets at different stages of maturity which together provide long-term, sustainable growth.
Our strategy across all of our markets remains simple and clear.
We aim to be the number one pizza company in each neighbourhood, through a commitment to offering the best product and service to our customers.
UK COMMITTED The UK market moderated this year, after three years of very strong like-for-like growth.
Consumers were more cautious TOOFFERING and value conscious, and incomes were squeezed as wage inflation lagged broader cost inflation.
The competitive environment continued to evolve, with delivery service companies continuing to invest heavily in growing scale.
THE BEST Despite these dynamics, Dominos achieved another good performance.
On a 52 week basis system sales were up 8.6%, driven by growth from order volume of 6.5% and 1.9% on average order value.
Like for like Group system sales of 1,179.6m, sales growth excluding effect of splitting ona52week basis growth is 15.1% territories was 4.8%.
We continued to take share in the pizza delivery market, thanks to our scale, our physical expansion, the UK & ROI system sales of 1,101.5m, strength of our brand and the quality ofour ona52 week basis growth is 9.2% product: and we held our share of the overall delivered food market, which A leading digital business: 75% of continues to grow strongly.
UKsales ordered online New store growth was the key driver of our performance in the year.
After 81 new openings Franchisee profitability maintained, in 2016, our franchise partners opened a despite a tougher market further 95 in 2017.
With 1,045 stores now across the UK, we are confident of 20.1m invested in international growth reaching our target of 1,600. markets: 81m of annualised sales Around two-thirds of new store openings are coming in existing territories, where Underlying PBT of 96.2m, on a franchisees are realising the significant customer service and financial benefits 52weekbasis growth is 10.2% ofsplitting territories.
The inherent profitability of the system and the strength of the brand are also enabling franchisees to make attractive returns in increasingly small standalone catchment areas.
For example, in market towns of no more than 10,000 households, a Dominos store is likely to be the only branded quick service restaurant or food delivery business, leading to a disproportionate market share.
08 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS adding functionality such as saved card details andprevious baskets.
For the full With 1,045 stores now across year, 75.2% of sales by value were ordered online, upfrom 71.8% in 2016. the UK, we are very confident Throughout Dominos, the customer service benefits of the Golden Mile are of reaching our target of 1,600. astrong driver for growth: the closer we are to customers, the quicker the pizza gets delivered and the higher volume of collection business we achieve.
Quicker delivery While the sales growth drivers of our business We have also made it even easier for significantly enhances the customer can be simplified down to new openings customers to see that they are getting the experience and leads to a higher level of and like-for-like growth from existing best deal available to them.
The app and repeat ordering.
Our key Delivered On stores, these factors and the overall website landing pages now show all the Time metric measures what proportion of profitability of the system are in turn current promotions, and our Deal Wizard orders reach customers within 30 minutes.
underpinned by the operational areas of automatically updates a customers basket During the year, our % DOT fell very focus discussed below.
for the best deal for their selections.
slightly, from 82.9% of orders to 81.8%, butstill remains a key differentiator.
Customer value and experience On the customer experience side, we Increased density of the store network We operate in a highly competitive continue to make the best use of our alsoraises our brand visibility, with each marketplace.
Technology and new business greatest competitive advantage: the store effectively acting as a billboard.
models have given customers more choice Dominos control of the end-to-end Our collection business performed strongly than ever, both in terms of the range of customer journey.
This is a crucial over the year, underpinned by new stores cuisines available and the number of ways differentiator from the delivery service and territory splitting.
Total collection sales they can order.
At the same time, they have companies or aggregators.
Dominos were up 12.6% and represented 21.4% of become much more value conscious over sources ingredients, runs the ordering system sales.
For new and immature stores, the last year as incomes are squeezed by platform, cooks your pizza fresh in a local collection represented 31% of sales.
This became most evident to us store, and brings it to your door courtesy early in 2017, when our Winter Survival deal ofDominos delivery drivers who are Finally on customer experience, we performed poorly compared to previous years directly employed by franchisees.
introduced new food options to keep the as a result of a less compelling value proposition.
We made further significant enhancements menu up to date and cater for changing We believe pizza to be the best value to our digital platform during the year.
These include our Chipotle Pulled delivered food, but it is not always perceived Wehave added voice ordering through Pork pizza and a Chilli Cheese stuffed crust, that way by customers.
This is partly a result Amazon Alexa and integrated Apple Pay both of which have been very popular with of the promotional nature ofpizza delivery asa payment option.
We also extendedour desserts pricing: published menu prices appear high releases throughout the year focused on range to include the Lotta-Chocca pizza and relative to some alternatives, but in fact in continuous improvement to the customer Cinni Dippers.
2017, 87% of ourorders in the UK were on journey, reducing page load times and some kind ofpromotion, and the average discount was 38%.
As a result, many customers are still left with the false perception of high menu prices.
Our 1,000th store During the second half of the year, we worked with our franchisee partners to was opened address customer value more directly.
inOverton, Thisincluded a decision to invest up to Hampshire.
4million in absorbing food cost inflation on behalf of franchisees to ensure customers were getting the best value possible.
In September we launched a national campaign focusing on the price of an individual pizza with our Dine for 9.99 offer, which was our most successful campaign of the year in terms of sales.
Additionally, we have sought to push our value message harder in our collection business.
In the Spring, we launched our Walk in Wins campaign, a Buy One Get One Free offer on collected pizza which has been running permanently since then.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 09 09 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers review continued UK continued Brand In September The Dominos brand is a highly significant 2017welaunched asset for the Group and our franchisees.
our The Official For many of our customers, Dominos Food of Everything hasbecome synonymous with pizza in a campaign.
way that has no equivalent across other types of delivered food.
In our detailed annual consumer survey, our unprompted awareness was 54%, compared to 31% forour closest pizza delivery competitor and 19% for the closest aggregator source:Parthenon Study, 2017.
The growth in the overall system creates a virtuous circle.
Franchisees contribute 4% of sales to the National Advertising Fund, which we then invest in brand marketing on their behalf, to drive both brand values and specific promotions.
These investments drive greater sales, underpinning returns on new store openings for franchisees.
New stores increase the visibility of the brand, improve customer service as discussed above and grow the top line, swelling the brand budget further.
Business modelpage 14 In September 2017 we launched our new brand campaign, The Official Food of Everything, which clearly positions Dominos as an established category leader a timely evolution from our previous challenger brand positioning.
The impact of the campaign in The 20142016 period was an extraordinary we have started to introduce GPS across brand recall has been very strong, with one for the system and for franchisees, with the store portfolio.
This allows franchisees recognition of the positioning running at very strong order growth supported by to track delivery drivers more effectively three times the level of previous campaigns, rapid online adoption and the secular trend and leads to significant improvements in and unprompted awareness at 84% our towards in-home entertainment combined labour productivity.
It is now operational in highest ever.
We continued to support our with sustained deflation in food costs.
471 stores, and we expect to complete above the line presence with the sponsorship Between 2013 and 2016, average per roll-out by Q3 of 2018. of TV shows such as The Voice and storeEBITDA for franchisees increased Hollyoaks, targeting key audiences and A further development of alignment with very strongly.
franchisees in 2017 came with our acquisition 2017 saw a return to more normalised sales of a 75% interest in the largest franchisee in While the annual survey demonstrated growth rates, combined with cost pressures the London area, with 25 stores.
Dominos continued strength in key areas such as on both labour and food.
Nonetheless, the is significantly under-represented in London, great tasting food and convenience, we combination of like-for-like sales growth a market which we believe accounts for 25% witnessed an emerging weakness in value with the procurement benefits of our scale of delivered food in the UK but only 14% of for money perception, with prices being saw franchisee EBITDA per store excluding our sales.
We aim to grow this business cited as the single biggest barrier to the impact of splitting territories maintained more aggressively under direct ownership.
This, combined year-on-year at just over 150,000.
This with the weaker trading witnessed in the This is the first time for many years that the figure remains significantly ahead of the early months of 2017, informed our value Group has taken control of a portfolio of average from 2011-2013, and provides a for money communications strategy stores in the UK, but it is common practice typical payback on a new store opening outlined above.
across the Dominos system worldwide to ofaround three years.
have a small proportion of stores directly Franchisee profitability and alignment We want to help our franchisees maintain operated.
Store ownership aligns us more Our franchisees remain some of the best this rate of payback.
As a result, not only closely with franchisees by making us entrepreneurs and operators in the Dominos have we provided support on food cost operators as well as master franchise system worldwide.
Our interests are aligned: inflation as described above to ensure holders, and gives our management valuable we all benefit from increased scale, through that customers continue to get great value operational experience.
It also allows us to the growing value of the brand, greater for money but we have also developed a test pricing, menus and technology in a live supply chain efficiency and the shared number of innovations to improve operating environment and use the results to support investment in new innovations to improve efficiency and drive down costs.
Most recently and influence the franchisee network further.
10 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS markets but leveraging our proven expertise in supply chain, digitaland We expect International franchisee management.
torepresent an increasing Consolidated system sales for the yearfrom our International operations were78.1m, with an underlying EBIT proportion of the Groups contribution of 0.8m.
profits and cash flow over We expect International to represent an increasing proportion of the Groups profits and cash flow over the longer term, both thelonger term.
from the development of our existing markets and entry into selected new markets with similar dynamics.
Supply chain and infrastructure ROI In Switzerland, we made significant Our supply chain in the UK is one of the Growth in the Republic of Ireland accelerated progress during the year.
Total system most efficient in the Dominos network.
in 2017, buoyed by a recovering economy sales on a 52 week basis were up 17.1% in Itisalso a major source of differentiation and by our own actions, particularly in digital.
local currency, and up 15.7% like-for-like.
versus our competitors, whether in the Local currency system sales on a 52 week Therewere two significant drivers of restaurant or aggregator space.
The margin basis were up 11.3%, with like-for-like thisacceleration: revised menu pricing generated within the Dominos system from growth of 10.8%.
On a 52 week reported andincreased online participation.
being vertically integrated from dough basis, system sales were up19.9% to manufacture, through value-added food 60.1m, reflecting the weakness and non-food distribution, to our own of sterling year-on-year.
ordering platform and franchisees stores, Online sales were up 28.8% allows both the Group and our franchisees Online sales year-on-year in local to make excellent returns.
wereup 28.8% currency, and now The rapid growth over the last few years represent 56.9% of total year-on-year and and our future plans have led to our single sales.
We opened our first now represent 57% biggest ever investment this year, with the new stores in ROI for six of total sales.
development of a new supply chain centre years, taking the total up in Warrington.
The total cash investment bytwo to 49, with plans for in2017 was 26.7m and on completion the further new stores in 2018. programme will have cost 37m39m.
We also plan to invest in extending The facility is due to enter service in spring our supply chain capacity to allow us to 2018, and will combine with our existing serve 75 stores in ROI as well as our stores supply chain centres to give us capacity in Northern Ireland.
toserve at least the 1,600 stores we are targeting, at projected levels of store sales.
International Its scale and level of automation will deliver Our controlled operations now comprise efficiencies of up to 10% cost per tray of four markets: Switzerland, Iceland, Norway dough in real terms by 2021.
As indicated at and Sweden and our associate in Germany.
the time of our interim results, there will be In each of these markets we see a clear a short term impact of an additional 3m in opportunity to build strongly profitable operating costs and depreciation in 2018 as businesses with local scale, adapted to their the plant ramps production.
Id like to extend my thanks and Our excellent unit economics appreciation to all of them for their continued commitment.
and our control of the Outlook customer experience are I remain confident in the outlook for the Group, and the year has started in line with our expectations.
It is not an accident that important differentiators.
pizza is the most successful delivered food in the world.
It is quick to make fresh, travels well while retaining its heat, enjoys a high margin thanks to its mix of ingredients, Pro forma system sales growth from the International continued andhas a sufficient ticket size to absorb Dominos branded chain was 94.6%, with In H1, we lowered menu prices and the cost of delivery.
We expect to introduced a delivery charge.
As a result, complete another 10 conversions in 2018, we saw our average ticket price fall 13.2% We will continue to grow in the UK, getting as well as opening further greenfield sites.
but achieved order volume growth over closer to new communities through a target 7 Dominos stores in the South of Oslo and theyear of 34.9%.
Online sales grew 56.6% of 65-75 new store openings in 2018, and Southern regions are franchised, and we will and now account for 55.4% of total sales.
providing ongoing enhancements to service seek to identify further franchisee partners.
We opened a new store in Q4 and have through our investments in technology and plans for several further openings in 2018, our supply chain.
We expect capex for 2018 Sweden at a lower cost per store than our previous to be around 30m.
We will continue to face We opened our first stores in Sweden in operating model in Switzerland.
competitive threats from branded pizza late 2016 and by the 2017 year end, we had delivery businesses and delivery service 6 stores.
Weekly sales of around 18,000 Iceland businesses, but our excellent unit economics are an encouraging sign of the popularity Since we took majority ownership of Iceland and our control of the end-to-end of our pizza and indicate that we can grow in May2017 total system sales were 28.9m.
customerexperience are important a profitable business in Sweden.
Further Sales growth was 10.8% in local currency andsustainable differentiators.
store openings are in the pipeline for 2018. on a pro forma basis.
Dominos Iceland is the leading quick service restaurant in the Internationally, we are still in the early stages Germany market and achieves weekly unit sales of of our development but all of our controlled In Germany, where we are a one-third over 37,000, comfortably the highest of markets benefit from strong sales per store associate partner in a joint venture any Dominos operation worldwide.
During already a very encouraging sign for the withDominos Pizza Enterprises, the the year we opened a further two stores, future.
We will focus on developing per Australian-listed master franchisee, taking the total to 23. store profitability, adding on supply chain progress continues to be good.
The margin when the scale justifies it, and integration of Joeys, acquired in 2016, In December 2017 we announced our building the brand to facilitate successful iscomplete, and in October 2017 we intention to acquire a further 44.3% stake digital growth and regional roll-out.
We will announced the acquisition of Hallo Pizza, in Dominos Iceland, taking our ownership also review any opportunities to enter another leading independent chain.
The transaction was completed additional markets in Northern Europe.
Oncethe Hallo Pizza stores have been in January 2018.
Finally, we will continue to balance the converted, we will operate a portfolio Norway long-term needs of the business with ofover 300 stores in Germany, with Our expansion in Norway accelerated returns of excess capital to shareholders, significant opportunity for long-term significantly in 2017 with the acquisition and plan to invest up to 50m in 2018 in growth in Europes largest economy.
ofDolly Dimples, the number three pizza ourshare buyback programme.
The marketpage 06 operator in the market, with 39 stores.
At the year end we had converted 9 stores to the Dominos brand, giving a total portfolio People David Wild of 27 Dominos stores.
Conversions are The Dominos culture remains central to Chief Executive Officer performing well, with weekly sales up oursuccess, and this is exemplified every 7 March 2018 around 50%on average compared to day in the individual and combined efforts theirpreviousrunrate.
of both the Dominos team and our franchisee community.
Dedication, pride in the brand SWITZERLAND ICELAND TOTAL NORWAY TOTAL SWEDEN TOTAL SALES 52week basis ANNUALISEDSALES ANNUALISEDSALES TOTAL STORES 19m 17.1% 40m 10.8% 38m 8.4% 6 12 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
