COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Financial performance My initial impressions FY 2017 revenue decreased 2.3% at When I joined Essentra, it was clear that constant exchange, with a like-for-like the Company had experienced a number decline of 2.0%.
The underlying result of challenges.
Most evident of these was reflected an improved revenue trend in the the poorly executed integration of the second half of the year, with a continued Clondalkin Specialist Packaging Division strong result in Component Solutions and SPD, which resulted in certain material a material improvement in Filter Products commercial and operational issues which offset by a decrease in Health & Personal were significantly weighing on the financial Care Packaging.
Beyond this, however, were Paul Forman positive foreign exchange benefit, together a number of other root causes: Essentra Chief Executive with a modest decline from change in did not have a clearly defined corporate scope owing to the divestment of the strategy: the matrix organisational Bristol consumer packaging site in June structure was a source of confusion Having been appointed as Chief 2017, total revenue increased 2.9% to and a consequent lack of accountability: Executive of Essentra on 1 January 2017, 1,027.3m.
there was a conspicuous lack of rigorous I am pleased to present my first and consistent process: and the IT Annual Review.
On an adjusted basis, operating profit infrastructure was fragmented and had was down 26.8% at constant exchange been underinvested.
Taking these issues In summary, following a period of at 84.6m.
The 280bps reduction in the together, it was unsurprising, therefore, turbulence, we did much in 2017 to margin at constant exchange to 8.2% that employee morale was very low and stabilise Essentra: this was not only with was largely driven by Health & Personal there had been an exodus of talent.
regard to our operational performance Care Packaging notably the profit metrics, but also in terms of starting drop-through from lower revenue, Notwithstanding these challenges, my to win back lost credibility with our together with a material operating loss initial view was that the Essentra Group customers, improving engagement at our folding cartons site at Newport, is comprised of strategically attractive with our employees and creating a stable UK and the impact of hurricane Maria on businesses, virtually all of which hold balance sheet supported by markedly our facilities in Puerto Rico as well as a leadership or number two positions in their improved cash flow control.
At the same less profitable revenue and segment mix respective markets, and many of which time, we have developed and articulated in Tapes.
There was a 2.1m decrease in have sustainable organic and possibly a sustainable, data-driven corporate our financing costs resulting from a lower acquisition growth potential thanks to strategy which will see the various average net debt position during the year their strong competitive advantage and activities which comprise the Essentra and our tax rate was maintained at 20.0%, their loyal, blue chip customer base.
Group restored to profitable growth over contributing to basic adjusted earnings Critically, I met many excellent and the medium term behind a talented and per share at constant exchange reducing passionate colleagues, who believed in engaged workforce.
At the heart of this by 30.1% to 22.1p.
the fundamental strengths of Essentra change programme is our people, where and were enthused by the prospect for the establishment of an agreed set of During the year, there was further positive change.
Accordingly, the issues principles and the absolute priority of investment in our footprint and equipment, to be overcome were predominantly health and safety have been critical with FY 2017 net capital expenditure of self-inflicted rather than end-market developments in the culture of excellence 45.3m: we also made good progress with related and there were solid foundations which we are seeking to create and embed regard to net working capital management, upon which to build.
which supported a cash conversion ratio of 94.6%.
As such, and boosted by net There is clearly much for us all still to do, proceeds from the divestment of Porous and this will take time: however, now a Technologies of 210.8m, our financial year into my tenure, I am encouraged by ratios remain robust, with net debt to the progress we have made to date and EBITDA of 1.7x and interest cover of 9.0x by the positive energy for change across as at 31 December 2017.
As a result, the the organisation.
Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.4p per share implying a FY 2017 dividend of 20.7p per share, unchanged versus FY 2016.
10 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM During 2017, we 2017 a year of stabilisation rapidly to start to address systems While it was important to initiate the challenges and simplify our infrastructure successfully restored strategy development programme at the in IT, and changed the reporting line of the stability across the earliest opportunity, at the same time we Chief Information Officer CIO directly needed to restore stability to the Company to me to reflect the critical importance of organisation from from our people and customers to our the task ahead.
our people and processes and finances.
While 2017 marks the outset of our customers to our My priority as Chief Executive is to provide three-step corporate change programme, processes and employees with a safe, respectful and nonetheless we made meaningful progress diverse environment, where people want in driving widespread stability during the finances.
A year into to come to work in the morning.
In the year: compared to a low point in H2 2016, my tenure, my belief first instance, therefore, it was imperative our revenue trends have steadied: our key to start to rebuild our corporate culture, performance indicators notably service in a bright future and to develop and communicate an and quality metrics have increased for our Company agreed set of values as well as where demonstrably in all three divisions, which we aim to take the business and why to has helped to enhance the dialogue we are is if anything ensure we are all clear as to how we should having with customers: we have delivered even stronger than behave while in the workplace, as well as a number of successful commercial and how we will together build Essentra into operational initiatives: and our employee my initial view.
the best company it can be.
Accordingly, engagement surveys have shown excellent we established our six principles and three levels of participation, with improvement steps to long-term success being Stability, in all key areas albeit from a low base, Strategy and Growth which were rolled in some cases versus 2016.
Underpinning out across the business, supported by all of this is a robust balance sheet and a an extensive programme of video very good level of cash conversion in the communication in all languages and business, and towards the end of the year townhall presentations.
In addition, we we successfully refinanced our entire debt needed an unambiguous organisational facilities to extend maturities at attractive structure, which resulted in the disbanding rates including the issue of US$75m of of the previous Strategic Business Unit US Private Placement notes to ensure and regional matrix in favour of three stability in our finances over the medium global divisions, each with profit & loss to long term.
accountability and clear lines of reporting and responsibility.
and strategic development Entailing eight different workstreams, the Following a period of significant footprint aim of our strategy review was to provide change, too often to the detriment of our a well-defined and objective assessment commercial relationships, we undertook of the current status and positioning of to stabilise our business and to regain the various business activities within the revenue momentum behind a new set Essentra organisation, together with of customer retention initiatives.
In the their future potential.
Presented to the case of certain underperforming sites, this financial markets at the time of our also entailed the injection of turnaround interim results on 28 July 2017, the output resource both in terms of judicious of this six-month review has been a clear financial investment and dedicated, corporate strategy with options which is experienced personnel.
This significant aligned to a three-year plan, and provides focus and remedial action was particularly a data-driven view of the areas which may evident in Health & Personal Care require measured additional investment in Packaging, as we sought to arrest the capability process and of how we intend significant rate of revenue and profit to drive future growth.
Ahead of our decline during the second half of 2016, external presentation, however, I was especially at those sites impacted by the pleased to have the opportunity to discuss acquisition integration: we also moved the findings from the strategy review with 11 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW our leadership teams from across Essentra Components Our strategic review at our global Management Conference Combining the expertise and credibility of has confirmed that in June.
Involving a much wider group than a manufacturer with the service orientation has previously been so directly involved of of a distributor there are a number of the fundamental almost 100 people, I greatly valued their factors which make the c. 8bn Bill of strengths exist across contribution to our future, and they have Materials small components market collectively done a fantastic job of attractive to Essentra.
Competitors our businesses which communicating our strategy to their of which there are hundreds are either we can build upon, respective organisations, to ensure that distributors or niche manufacturers: it our employees fully understand the is difficult for new entrants to establish and that previous direction in which we are heading and the themselves in a meaningful way due challenges were reasons why, and to solicit their comments to the high cost to produce moulds to and questions.
manufacture standard parts across a caused by internal very broad range of Stock Keeping Units not external Overall, the strategy review confirmed my SKUs : Asia remains a large, growing and initial assessment: namely, that the nine relatively underdeveloped region: and good factors.
businesses comprising the Essentra Group margins are generally available among have strong and defensible strategic other factors.
Indeed, no major changes positions, with operating margins which in market dynamics or customer needs can be sustained or in the case of Health are foreseen in the immediate future.
Packaging & Personal Care Packaging improved to As one of only two multi-continental industry norms over the medium term.
While there are opportunities for suppliers of a full range of specialist As part of the review, we also determined improvement including cross-selling secondary health & personal care that with effect from 1 January 2018 across product categories and the rate packaging, Essentra is fundamentally and to provide greater focus across the of new customer acquisition the strategy well-positioned in an attractive sector: portfolio, we should be grouped into three for Components is essentially one of underlying markets are stable and global divisions of Components, Packaging evolution from a strong and relatively growing: we have a predominantly blue and Filters, with the creation of a fourth unique proposition.
However, over and chip customer base which represents a Specialist Components division to separately above the scope to grow the division high barrier to entry and exhibits a clear manage our six smaller businesses.
In organically through expanding into pattern of one stop shop purchasing, addition, we clearly defined the role of faster-growing geographies and adjacent and industry trends support continuing the overall Group in driving value.
product ranges, there is also potential to growth and scope for value-added achieve this through bolt-on transactions.
In order to support our stability and future Indeed, the acquisition of Micro Plastics growth agenda, we identified the need for a leading provider of fasteners at the However, as mentioned above, through an incremental 30m of investment over end of the year, was a great example of the the poor integration of the acquisition three years in key areas: of this, c. 10m is consolidation opportunities available to us: of Clondalkin SPD, we lost much of our IT-related and approximately 20m is to not only does Micro Plastics significantly market share through a reduced share drive an equipment upgrade programme enhance our offering in the US for one of of wallet and customer trust over the in Packaging.
our core product ranges and add custom course of 2016, further to which much of injection moulding capability as well as our recent focus has been on stabilising providing compelling cross-selling potential the business.
it also extends our manufacturing footprint and gives us access to a number As part of the strategy review, and to of high-growth end-markets in Mexico.
create greater organisational clarity, we took the decision to carve out the tapes activities from the division and to run them as part of the newly-created Specialist Components division.
In addition, low complexity packaging for consumer goods applications will be fide-emphasised: notably, this 12 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM unfortunately resulted in the closure of the Managing Director, Kamal Taneja, Specialist Components financially and  who joined us in October are aimed at The newly-created Specialist Components Newport folding cartons site at the end improving customer and market visibility, division comprises Essentras six smaller of 2017, and thus the removal of c. 4.5m and thereby dampening the historical business activities, which have very limited losses in FY 2018. volatility in the project pipeline.
synergy with their previous larger host divisions and with each other.
However, As we continue to stabilise our underlying Over and above optimising the existing in their respective niches, most have health & personal care packaging activities, business, we have identified three strong or at least reasonable positions we are now starting to leverage our core potential game changers and we are and all have scope for organic growth.
capabilities to drive revenue growth in the process of evaluating these further: Accounting for FY 2017 revenue of c. 164m through initiatives such as additional and with a potentially variable high commercial programmes to materially China the worlds largest cigarette single-digit adjusted operating margin increase customer share of wallet, market 44% global volume and in aggregate these activities comprise developing a broader and deeper service currently served as an export market Extrusion, Pipe Protection Technologies, proposition and expanding geographically from our sites in Thailand and Indonesia.
Tear Tapes, Speciality Tapes, Industrial with existing customers.
At the same time, We are exploring a structural move into Supply the Maintenance, Repair & the delivery of short-term profit levers China, supported by our proven special Overhaul MRO industrial components including procurement and process filter capability, to capture the clear business and Card Solutions Security.
improvement initiatives, as well as the market trends toward premium and benefit from incremental investment in more international-style products We expect that this new organisational upgraded, more efficient equipment structure will facilitate faster, more nimble Greater outsourcing a 1% shift in are expected to help the division to start management, and that greater focus the outsourced filter share represents to improve towards an industry-average will enable more detailed strategic a c. 50m revenue increase to thirdoperating margin.
development: it will also give greater party producers such as Essentra.
visibility on the performance of the three With multi-national players continuing Filters larger divisions.
With effect from 1 January to pursue opportunities to rationalise While Essentras addressed segments 2018, Tim Wilson joined Essentra as their manufacturing footprint and are fundamentally stable in an overall divisional President and over and to focus on core skills improve asset declining tobacco market given our above maximising short-term tactical utilisation, we are exploring the significant weighting towards special filters opportunities his task over the next six potential to help them simplify their and Asia there is scope to refine and months will be to work with each of the supply chains through outsourcing a distinguish the current proposition further, respective business heads to formulate greater proportion of filter production with the objective of both expanding the a full range of longer-term strategies.
share of wallet with multi-nationals while Next Generation Products NGP simultaneously driving share among currently a very small percentage of the The role of Finance independent customers.
In the case of overall tobacco market, however rapidly As we have stabilised the Company, the former, rebuilding global key account expanding as multi-nationals increasingly the Finance function has made a management and providing solutions in focus their innovation spend on both significant contribution in providing new geographic markets now demanding vaping e-cigarette and Heat Not due control, discipline and balance sheet special filters should help us to strengthen Burn platforms.
With a strong position management, and will continue to do so and deepen customer relationships: in combustibles, and an expanding as we seek to restore sustainable revenue regarding the latter, a more tailored offering presence in both NGP segments, there growth and profitability to Essentra.
and a better configuration of facilities is the possibility for us to grow in such In particular, the team has a critical role can help to balance their demand for emerging technologies to play in terms of business partnering, innovation with low-cost manufacturing.
as well as capturing the financial Given the early stage of evaluating each consequences of our corporate strategy Combined with further internal upgrading of these potential medium to long-term and, hence, in informing the decisionof our innovation capability to become value-creating levers, these are not making process both in terms of a more commercially rather than opportunities which we are assuming medium-term planning and in-year operationally led business, and hence to be certain and we will update the budgeting.
a more strategic partner, these initiatives financial markets accordingly as our which are being led by our new divisional analysis progresses.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Further to our review, we have revised Group can add value.
Indeed, over and While there is our key financial performance indicators above the role of Finance outlined above limited synergy to focus on all value drivers, from both together with Human Resources and a profit & loss and balance sheet Health and Safety of which more below between our perspective.
In the case of the former, there are a number of other areas where businesses, we have operating profit growth and margin are a unifying central resource can significantly now prioritised, while in the case of the enhance the sum of our constituent parts clearly defined a latter there is an emphasis on working and we are already making progress.
role for the Group capital measured as average working capital per month as a percentage of Not least among these is Corporate to add value across revenue, Property, Plant & Equipment Governance and, consistent with the a number of and gearing: this translates into an Boards ongoing commitment to increased focus on returns, both return promoting a strong culture of the highest enabling functions on capital employed ie, how we are using standards of business ethics based on from Corporate our balance sheet and return on total clear principles, we now have an externally invested capital including accumulated benchmarked and supported route to Governance, goodwill etc from acquisition spend.
upper quartile FTSE 250 performance by Finance and HR, to 2020.
Together with the cultural change From a financial perspective, the output initiated during the year which has seen Operations, IT, HSE of our review is a clear and significantly a more committed tone from the top and Commercial.
enhanced focus on cash flow generation: and the revision of a number of protocols indeed, notwithstanding the aforewe have initiated a number of process mentioned incremental 30m capital improvements, including re-setting our risk expenditure, our objective is to improve management approach to develop consistent Across our diverse businesses our our conversion ratio over the medium and relevant performance indicators, filling manufacturing capability is a common term, in particular through driving certain gaps in business continuity theme and having first started producing sustainable improvement in net management and contract processes and filters in the UK in the late 1940s we have working capital.
revising our internal audit approach to add extensive expertise, from plastic injection value and help drive positive change.
moulding and extrusion to specialist This focus on cash generation is evidenced printing conversion and filtration in well-defined financial and capital IT is also an area where we can benefit technologies.
In harnessing this significant allocation policies: these include a from an integrated approach, global capability, the Group has an important leverage target of between 1 2x net infrastructure and co-ordinated activities.
role to play in leveraging investment, debt to EBITDA and a stretching internal Indeed, the previous absence of corporate sharing best practice to move our facilities return threshold for capital expenditure strategy, consistent standards and to world class levels, taking advantage programmes, as well as a disciplined post-acquisition systems integration has of common purchasing opportunities financial approach to acquisitions and resulted in a proliferation of platforms and and standardising key processes where a recognition of the importance of the installations relative to our site footprint, relevant.
Alongside Operations, there dividend to shareholders while driving while historic under-investment means are also opportunities to deliver critical stability and growth.
In addition, we certain software is coming to the end of process improvements, skill upgrades have revised our management incentives vendor support and we lack the necessary and cultural change in our Strategy & to ensure due alignment, such that skills and number of resource for the Commercial function, particularly with cash-related performance measures relatively complex environment we have.
regard to driving corporate strategy, now account for 30% of the annual cash The IT team, led by our new CIO, Richard facilitating and challenging the next stage bonus and 20 - 40% of the Long-Term Cammish, and supported by selective of divisional strategies and overseeing Incentive Programme.
external expertise, has much to do to M&A activity and consistent post-merger upgrade our capabilities as well as to integration protocols.
As both areas will and of the wider Group direct the continued investment being greatly benefit from central leadership and While there is limited synergy between our made to address the growing risks which support, we have accordingly created two nine businesses in terms of end-markets all companies face in the cyber security important Group Management Committee and customers served, nonetheless there domain but is energised for change GMC roles in Group Operations Director are a number of key aspects where the and the task in hand.
14 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM People programme, with a number of successful At all levels, our employees are a vital presentations hosted in Milton Keynes.
resource in the Companys pursuit of Representatives from senior management operational excellence and the provision were invited to watch the graduate teams of quality products and services to our drawn from across functions and customers.
And, as Chief Executive, geographies present on topics focusing my priority is to provide a working on Millennial Employee Engagement environment which enables talent to at Essentra, Should Essentra Improve flourish and where people believe its Employer Brand?
and Knowledge they have the opportunity for career Sharing: a Proposal for Implementation development.
Having introduced assessment-based Additionally, in April, we announced our Leadership Development Centres LDC first National Apprenticeship Progamme in 2014, a total of 171 colleagues across all in the UK.
The programme launched geographical regions have now attended across our sites at Bradford, Kidlington, the two key development programmes Kilmarnock, Newmarket, Newport, globally.
Essentras LDC is not a traditional Nottingham and Portsmouth, providing 20 training programme: rather, it is designed young apprentices the opportunity to learn to assess skills against defined Company skills in the printing, setting and finishing leadership competencies which will be industries.
Comprised of a selection of critical to our organisational success going  qualifications, forward.
Together with their manager, as well as technical, functional and soft the employee takes responsibility for using skills modules, the programme will take the output from the LDC to create a 36 months to complete and provide personal development plan with support participants with a Level 3 apprenticeship.
from our Human Resources team.
By With the average age of employees at our being nominated to the LDC, employees manufacturing sites increasing, we believe have already delivered success consistently that such an initiative is an excellent way in their current role and demonstrated the of attracting new talent to our business potential for future advancement.
As a particularly in skilled operational roles and result, the programme is designed to help to offer them a rewarding and varied career.
employees fulfil their respective potential.
Since joining, I have had the pleasure of The Essentra Graduate Programme visiting all our manufacturing sites and enjoyed further success in 2017.
The speaking to thousands of my colleagues, two-year programme has provided a and what has consistently struck me is talent pipeline for a number of years and, the incredible team we have and the in 2017, 25 people joined the scheme, extent of their knowledge, skill, passion which continues to expand its and dedication to Essentra.
The 2017 intake will this more evident than at our sites in join the 19 graduates recruited in 2016, and Puerto Rico, where hurricane Maria caused will have the opportunity to develop their devastation beyond anything most of us management skills through bespoke can imagine.
While our experienced local training which takes place around team was well prepared for the hurricane Essentras sites, giving graduates exposure strike, nonetheless the response of our 345 to the business while carrying out an employees at Manati and Guaynabo in operational job from day one.
Separately, reporting for work at a time when many in October, the 2015 graduate intake of them were facing significant personal who, for the first time had the opportunity challenges was truly humbling, and the Board, to undertake some of their training in Asia GMC and I would like to pay tribute to their in Bangalore, India completed their outstanding commitment to our business.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Further to the disbanding of the matrix Following a year of challenge and change Health, safety and environment structure in February 2017, in October we in 2016, we have much still to do to HSE made further organisational changes in improve motivation and morale in certain Nobody involved with our operations light of our strategic review.
In particular, parts of the organisation.
This includes the should suffer injury or harm, and having restored stability to our activities, Company being exemplary in all aspects Essentras commitment to achieving we created a global Health & Personal of diversity and inclusion, and we have and maintaining the highest standards Care Packaging organisation Essentra recently established a Steering Group to of occupational health and safety extends Packaging with leadership under a implement the agenda in these critical to our employees, temporary workers, single functional team.
This has brought areas which form part of the cornerstone contractors, customers, suppliers, visitors together our previous Europe & Asia and of our six principles.
Accordingly, there is and members of the public alike.
Our Americas regional organisations which a significant role for our Group Human commitment also extends to our supply had been separately managed since Resources team, from monitoring and chain and to organisations working on February 2017 and will allow us to serve reviewing the action plans from our behalf, and we actively encourage our global customers better and with engagement surveys and further our suppliers to operate in a similarly greater alignment, and to leverage our enhancing and managing our Learning & responsible manner.
scale in innovation, best practice transfer Development programmes, to continuing and talent development.
As a result, it to lead the recruitment process for talent Although we are still some way from the will allow us to pursue a clear strategic to fill skill gaps and benefiting from the levels of excellence to which the Board direction with common purpose and to addition of dedicated resource to expand and GMC are committed and which are provide customers with a consistent global our employee communications.
Together espoused in our updated Group HSE policy value proposition.
Leading Essentra with my GMC colleagues, I am committed we made progress in improving the HSE Packaging with effect from October is Iain to ensuring that Essentra is a great place culture across the Group in 2017.
Indeed, Percival, who joined Essentra as Managing to work, and to driving the engagement although the number of Lost Time Director of the Europe & Asia business of our people from the lower quartile level Incidents only modestly decreased versus in March 2017: supporting Iain will be which I inherited to our objective of 2016, we saw a close to 20% reduction in a number of senior global roles, which upper quartile.
days lost as a result of these incidents, we have already made good progress indicating that the severity of the cases in recruiting.
In addition, we significantly invested in our global HSE capability during the year, to add resource and capability and to help identify and drive further improvements in performance and culture.
This included the recruitment of a new Group HSE Director who with his Global Safety Team, and with my and the GMCs unstinting support will be responsible for ensuring that this critical area remains at the forefront of the Companys agenda, will take steps to reduce the number of accidents and incidents with a goal of zero, will share learnings of safety investigations to prevent recurrence, and will encourage and facilitate employee participation and feedback to contribute to the high standards we have set ourselves.
We will also expect employees to participate fully in the improvement of standards not least site managers and supervisors to ensure that healthy and safe working conditions are maintained within their sphere of influence at all times.
16 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Restoring Essentra As part of the cornerstone of our six As part of our afore-mentioned updated principles, it is imperative that we give HSE policy, we also committed to to sustainable, health and safety in the workplace our continuously improving our environmental profitable growth is full focus and commitment, and I expect performance.
This includes preventing every one of us to participate fully in pollution and minimising emissions, not a rapid journey, delivering our strategic and policy discharges and disposals: reducing waste: and we clearly have a objectives in this area.
specific energy consumption: and, where possible, conserving and recycling lot of work still to do.
Essentra is additionally committed to resources such as water particularly However, together the highest standards of corporate in areas of scarcity.
In addition, we have governance and responsibility, to ensure committed to actively engage with we have made great that the way in which we manage our stakeholders to explore the opportunities progress and tangible activities reflects the expectations of offered by new technologies to improve our all the Companys stakeholders.
As a production processes and operations.
improvement in 2017, member of both the FTSE4Good Index so we are already and the Carbon Trust, we recognise that Summary careful stewardship of the environment Our roadmap from Stability, through to well on our way.
is a duty we owe to our neighbours and Strategy and Growth will take two to three to future generations, as well as a critical years and, given the scale of the task, we component of the international reputation will need to prioritise our objectives and and quality of Essentras businesses.
may need to evolve our thinking over time.
However, the vast majority of what we All our principal manufacturing facilities need to do is in our own hands, and we hold the ISO 14001 environmental are already well on our way to rebuilding accreditation and, with the exception the foundations from which we can restore of recently acquired sites, they have also sustainable growth in our fantastic achieved the Occupational Health & Company.
We underwent a great deal Safety Management Systems OHSAS of change in 2017 which I know can be 18001.
Many of our operations are both exciting and unsettling and I would additionally required to adhere to more like to thank all our employees for their stringent standards, notably those serving collective hard work and commitment in the automotive and health & personal care this respect as, together, we seek to build sectors.
During the year, our Barcelona, a better Essentra.
Spain Components site was accredited to IATF 16949, an updated and improved certification which ensures the facility PAUL FORMAN meets the rigorous processes required Chief Executive to sell components to the automotive 2 March 2018 industry.
Separately, we received PS9000 certification across all our Health & Personal Care Packaging sites in the US and Puerto Rico, making Essentra the first manufacturer of secondary packaging in the region to secure this accreditation, and underscoring our commitment to Good Manufacturing Practice and best in class quality assurance to our pharmaceutical customers.
