CEOS STRATEGIC OVERVIEW In 2017, we have delivered profit growth across all 3 business segments and strong cash flow generation.
In the first year of our Reignite Growth strategy implementation we have made material progress.
There is still however a lot to do.
We as a management team are convinced of Elementis growth potential and look forward to maintaining the momentum in 2018.
RESULTS Looking back on 2017, I will start with the Groups financial performance.
Revenue from continuing operations rose by 27% on the prior year from $616.6m to $782.7m, with strong organic growth and a first contribution from the recently acquired SummitReheis.
Operating profit for the year increased by 7% from $85.1m to $91.4m, however this excludes the impact from discontinued operations and adjusting items.
Group adjusted operating profit rose from $97.0m to $128.1m and profit after tax increased 73% to $117.6m.
Group diluted adjusted EPS increased from 17.4 cents in 2016 to 19.5 cents.
PAUL WATERMAN, CEO A hallmark of Elementis is its strong cash generation and in 2017 we delivered adjusted operating cash flow of $107.1m.
Following the acquisition of SummitReheis in March 2017 for $362m, Elementis moved from a net cash position of $77.5m in 2016 to a net debt position of $291.1m.
The strong underlying cash generation of the Group combined with portfolio changes will enhance our future free cash flow and continue to strengthen our balance sheet.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety remains our top priority and we take our responsibilities to our employees, customers, suppliers and visitors very seriously.
While we continue to deliver safety performance that is amongst the industry leaders, we will not be satisfied until we achieve our goal of no one getting hurt while working at Elementis.
In 2017, we made several improvements to our health and safety programme.
We established and communicated our 10 Life 2017 was a good start, but there is much Saving Rules, upgraded our online health and safety training programme and implemented a safety recognition programme more to do in 2018 and beyond to realise for recognising manufacturing locations that achieve significant our aspirations.
All these changes reflect our desire to reinforce safety as a value and to reduce or eliminate our workforces exposure to occupational hazards.
COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS During 2017, we refreshed and relaunched our Code of Conduct the Code.
This reflects the spirit of the 5 key principles at Elementis: Behaving with honesty and integrity Following the letter and spirit of the law Treating each other fairly Acting in the best interest of Elementis Protecting Elementis property and documents.
The relaunch of the Code has been supported by new online training encompassing areas including fair dealing, confidentiality and privacy, insider trading and fair disclosure, bribery and other anti-corruption practices.
All new employees are required to undertake training on the Code and refresher training is given to all employees periodically.
This is supported by comprehensive whistleblowing procedures and an antiretaliation policy.
The Board and Executive Leadership team consider the Code to be critical to the Groups continuing success and in how it meets its corporate responsibilities.
PEOPLE Every person counts at Elementis.
Enabling the organisation to operate efficiently is essential for successful execution of our Reignite Growth strategy.
In 2017, we completed the implementation of global functions across the Group and invested in key leadership team capabilities required to deliver the strategy.
I have taken the decision to create a global 12 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Coatings team that will be led by Luc van Ravenstein.
This will enable Elementis to pursue growth opportunities in Coatings Related material more quickly and in a more integrated way.
In addition, Reignite Growth 2017 highlights page 4 Marci Brand will lead our Personal Care business.
Marci is an Our business segments performance page 20 experienced leader who has recently joined Elementis from BP.
Corporate social responsibility report page 26 After a career with Elementis spanning 40 years, Dennis Valentino, President Chromium, has announced he will retire at the beginning of July 2018.
I would like to thank Dennis for the substantial contribution he has made to Elementis.
His impact on the business will be long lasting.
While we must say goodbye to Dennis, I am pleased to announce that Eric Waldmann has been appointed Vice President, Chromium and will join the Executive Leadership team.
Eric is a proven leader who has deep experience in all aspects of our Chromium business.
REIGNITE GROWTH STRATEGY UPDATE In November 2016, we launched our new strategy to Reignite Growth at Elementis.
As outlined earlier in the Annual report, Focus on health and safety we have made material progress in the first year of our strategic implementation.
Key milestones during the year included: The successful acquisition of SummitReheis, the global leader in antiperspirant and pharma actives has transformed the materiality of our Personal Care business and we completed the integration by the end of 2017 as expected 23% revenue growth in our legacy Personal Care business, driven by both geographic expansion and deeper penetration Implementation of global key account management to include: training, account toolkits and plans and performance management The successful exit of our non-core US Colourants business and a sale agreed to exit our Surfactants business The identification of $18m of working capital efficiency measures that will be pursued in 2018 and beyond.
OUTLOOK Training and empowering our people In 2018, we will look to build on the momentum we have created.
Our Life Saving Rules were launched in 2017.
All our In terms of growth opportunities, we will continue to grow our employees have Stop Work Authority if they see unsafe Personal Care business via continued geographic expansion and working conditions.
deepened product penetration throughout our customer base.
The Coatings team will prioritise growth initiatives at global key accounts and in key geographies such as China, South East Asia and Latin America.
In addition, we expect solid performance from FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS both the Chromium and the Energy businesses to continue through Q.
In the global supply chain we will continue to optimise our How does the acquisition of SummitReheis help the asset base, drive productivity improvements and pursue Reignite Growth strategy?
Our innovation pipeline is focused on A. material opportunities that address the formulation objectives of As part of our strategy we are focused on pursuing the best our customers and balances resources appropriately between growth opportunities, including growth of our Personal Care new product opportunities in Personal Care and Coatings.
The acquisition of SummitReheis creates a Personal Care business of scale at Elementis with an improved customer SUMMARY proposition and a stronger position in a high growth segment.
At Elementis we will maintain focus on actions that will create sustainable value over time.
We start with an emphasis on safe, Q. reliable operations that enable our employees to return home safe Are you confident you have the right people to deliver at the end of each day.
Our Code must be understood and this strategy?
followed by everyone to ensure we do what is right, all the time, A. and to create a place where people love to work.
The Reignite Investment in talent is key to enable our Reignite Growth Growth strategy is clear and we must ensure all of our resources strategy.
We have made strides in this area throughout 2017 are allocated to the most compelling value creating and will continue to do so as the business develops.
opportunities and that our execution is excellent.
We are fortunate to have a talented team of people who are dedicated to the Q. success of Elementis and for that I am very grateful.
2017 was What improvements have you made to Health and a good start, but there is much more to do in 2018 and beyond Safety in 2017?
We are excited about the future.
During 2017 we implemented several new safety initiatives PAUL WATERMAN including Safety Leadership Training and Life Saving Rules.
CEO These programmes were primarily implemented to motivate employees to become more engaged with safety and be more Total operations both continuing and discontinued.
proactive in identifying and addressing potential hazards in the After adjusting items see note 5. work environment.
13 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
