8 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Chief Executives review intu focuses solely on regional shopping centres in the UK and Spain Our performance in 2017 we continued to seize the growth The underlying strengths of the intu opportunity in Spain.
We acquired business were much in evidence in 2017 Madrid Xanad in the year, a centre as we have recorded a robust overall full of growth opportunities and an performance, confounding the external ideal t for our shopping resort model gloom and negativity in pre-Brexit UK in Spain, with a Nickelodeon theme about retail and retail property, and park attraction and aquarium under construction, to add to the existing showing the success of our asset indoor ski slope management initiatives and strategic positioning.
Outlook and 2018 strategic objectives Our underlying earnings per share were The environment for the business is steady at 15.0 pence: we grew like-for-like likely to remain challenging as the net rental income by 0.5 per cent, within UK continues through the Brexit our original guidance 12 months ago: negotiations.
Our shopping centres have and net asset value per share, helped by not been immune to the UKs relatively a tremendous performance from the sluggish economic performance.
Spanish business, increased from Decision-making about investing in 404 pence to 411 pence.
the UK has inevitably been impacted in the pre-Brexit period and domestic We delivered on each of our four core consumers have been adapting to objectives for 2017: uctuations in their discretionary spending capacity.
asset performance was resilient in the UK and buoyant in Spain, with the The 2017 results are, however, a The underlying clear message from key performance considerable endorsement of the indicators, such as lettings, occupancy, underlying strength of the intu business strengths of the intu footfall and dwell time, that intu is in and our strategic objectives for 2018 business were much in ne shape build on those we have pursued in the investment programme in the UK the last few years.
They are: evidence in 2017 as moved on at pace with expenditure in shown by our robust the year of 184 million.
The pipeline growing like-for-like net rental income for the next three years amounts optimising our agship destinations overall performance.
to 562 million, with plenty of delivering operational excellence opportunity beyond that date.
making smart use of capital David Fischel In addition to the 180 million Chief Executive intu Watford extension, opening in Front of mind for investors is the changing 2018, significant projects are underway mix of online and in-store sales and how at major centres, such as intu Lakeside, that might affect demand for physical intu Trafford Centre and intu Merry Hill space, hence our particular focus on the the awareness and importance of basic measure of growing like-for-like net the intu brand has continued to rental income.
At intu, we are still seeing grow.
Five years on from launch, we key retailers taking more space, and can clearly see the advantages of a investing for the long term in our centres, strong brand for a shopping centre as they recognise the footfall we deliver business such as ours.
Among these and our ability to create more reasons advantages we would include superior for customers to visit and stay longer.
customer service, refreshing changes to the centres physical and digital environments and new and innovative sources of revenue Strategic report Chief Executives review 9 Our energies are also concentrated on ensuring all our centres evolve with consumer and retailer needs, so that they deliver sustainable growth.
Keeping our centres at the forefront of peoples minds requires continual focus on bringing in new attractions, be it a key retailer or restaurant or a compelling leisure attraction.
In addition to delivering our target return hurdles, our projects innovate what we offer our customers and keep us at the leading edge of the shopping centre industry.
Nowhere will this be more obvious Our culture than at our ground-up scheme in In one way, we are a simple business, Spain, intu Costa del Sol, where we with a focus on creating the best shopping have the opportunity to create a worldcentre experience.
Our culture is driven by class centre, delivering our signature a single-minded purpose to make our shopping resort product and customers feel better about life through showcasing our expertise.
a visit to one of our centres.
Utilising technology The retail industry has been embracing new Operational excellence is a clear This is an important part of the intu technology like never before, as retailers differentiator in both the UK and Spain.
difference and a cause of our success.
increasingly see tech as a catalyst for Our knowledge and insight are important, We encourage all our employees to look at creating new business opportunities, as is our culture and living our values things differently and creatively, to consider rather than a threat.
Retailers are nding bold, creative and genuine which carefully and then act boldly and genuinely.
ingenious ways to shape their technological underpin everything that we do.
Our infrastructures, define their online presence culture is embodied by our brand which and drive engagement with customers.
has become recognised throughout the shopping centre industry, with intu a At intu, we adapted and changed our byword for fantastic customer service, business model in 2013 to offer a seamless motivated and enthusiastic staff, multichannel proposition.
This year we expert mall operations and good began working with seven tech start-ups corporate citizenship.
as part of intu Accelerate, our incubator programme, which has been trialling a Our skill in this area is recognised by the range of new ideas in our shopping centres, partners we have brought into the from robotic customer services assistants business in the last few years, including to an online personal shopper service.
CPPIB, LaSalle Investment Management Total financial return and TH Real Estate.
The ability to partner And while few new shopping centres are on assets allows us to astutely recycle being built in the UK, we aim to be on site at and allocate capital to deliver superior intu Costa del Sol in Spain next year to build returns.
With over 800 million of cash 5.2% a groundbreaking shopping resort that and committed facilities, our financial takes everything we have been putting into position is very sound.
practice over the last few years in the UK to a whole new level.
UK near-term development pipeline Read more about our innovation on page 23 562m 10 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Our 2018 strategy Our results highlight the underlying strength of the intu business based on the strategic objectives we have pursued over the last few years.
For 2018, we are enhancing our strategy to build on this strong base Over the last three years, we have In Spain, we now own three top-10 Knowing this, and with an eye on the focused on four strategic objectives centres and are on target to begin the potential challenges facing us in a and consistently delivered against these construction of intu Costa del Sol.
Our changing market, we are tilting the with 2017 being another strong year challenge is no longer to build a business emphasis of our objectives to increase of results.
These objectives have seen in Spain we are now an established our focus on the growth and continuing us optimising our assets and growing national player.
Our brand is five years old excellence of our agship destinations like-for-like net rental income, delivering and is a recognised market leader with a in the UK and Spain.
We set out our award-winning developments, building distinctive approach and clear purpose.
objectives in more detail below.
a business in Spain and maximising our operations through our brand.
Growing like-for-like net rental income Optimising our agship destinations 12 Like-for-like net rental income growth is our key income measure.
By delivering a compelling mix of retail, catering and leisure, each Given our relatively low cost base and xed finance costs, growing of our agship destinations generally draws footfall of 20 million our net rental income drives earnings and ultimately dividend or more and the average customer stays for over two hours.
We use our insight, expertise and innovation to ensure that they are the destinations of choice for our customers.
Priorities in 2018 Priorities in 2018 grow like-for-like net rental income, currently expected to be in the ensure the leisure extension at intu Lakeside remains on target range of 1.5 to 2.5 per cent complete the aquarium and Nickelodeon leisure attractions at deliver new lettings ahead of previous rent and increasing rents Madrid Xanad through the rent review cycle commence the redevelopment and repositioning of Barton Square, reduce vacancy rate year-on-year further improving the tenant mix at intu Trafford Centre complete the final planning consents at intu Costa del Sol Strategic report Our 2018 strategy 11 1 Our strategic focus going forward Growing like-for-like Our overall business model remains unchanged.
Our net rental assets and resources and what we do remain the same income but the strategy that delivers sustainable value for our shareholders and stakeholders has been adjusted to better represent todays opportunities and challenges.
4 2 Our assets and resources What we do We have unique assets and resources that We apply the intu difference our specialist Making Optimising provide the foundations for our business knowledge, expertise and market insight to create the most popular shopping centres by: Our Our centres Our employees National presence with high Professional, empowered and making customers smile How our strategy helps quality retail and leisure motivated teams that are Our insight and management of centres us create value smart use our agship destinations visited by half the specialists in their elds attract customers more often, for longer UKs population each year See our people on page 54 See top properties on page 4 mix of retail, leisure and catering alongside our distinctive brand proposition From 2015 to 2017, we 1 focused on these Optimising customers Our brand Our relationships Respected shopping centre Enduring, creative and helping retailers ourish strategic objectives asset of capital destinations brand focused on enriching collaborative relationships Our high-footfall locations, exibility and to create a competitive performance the customer experience with retailers, customers, strong brand give retailers the confidence that advantage and deliver both in centre and online employees, partners they will trade successfully with intu, which long-term value and communities drives rental income and capital growth on page 15 See relationships p on page p g 32 See understanding our markets on page 18 4 2 Our financial strength Seizing the Our Delivering UK Robust capital structure provides capacity to deliver growth our objectives from a range of funding sources developments opportunity customers See financial review on page 48 in Spain The value we add We deliver sustainable value for our shareholders and stakeholders 3 See the strategy overview for more details on how Making we achieved this in 2017 on Our shareholders Our customers Our communities the brand page 34.
Strong stable income and capital growth Compelling experiences significant economic contribution count For details of our 2018 strategy see page 10 5.2% 70 4.6bn total financial return averag ge net pr p omoter score g gross value added Our retailers Our people Our environment Environments that help retailers ourish Professional and empowered Operational and environmental efficiency Underpinned by our culture 2.9% 14 14 58% Behaving responsibly outperformance of national all intu centres awarded Investors in People reduction in carbon intensity since 2010 See more on corp porate resp ponsibility y on p pag ge 57 footfall benchmark gold standard 3 Bein i g a good d emplo l yer See more on our peopl p op e on page p g 54 Li Livi ing our values l See more on our culture on page p g 54 Delivering operational See our business model on page 30 excellence Delivering operational excellence Making smart use of capital 34 Making customers smile and helping retailers ourish is what we do, and As the leading owner, developer and manager of shopping centres in operational excellence is how we measure our success.
From a customers the UK and Spain, we and our assets are well respected throughout the point of view, this is measured by our brand metrics, including net industry.
This means we can access capital and attract partners to promoter score and brand recognition.
For our retailers, it relates to increase focus and achieve superior returns at our agship locations.
how many customers we attract and how long they stay in our centres.
For our wider communities, it is about being a good corporate citizen.
Priorities in 2018 Priorities in 2018 ensure we continue to outperform footfall benchmark ensure facilities available for the development pipeline maintaining enhance brand recognition and consistency of net promoter score loan to value in the 40 to 50 per cent range build on digital platform and continue to grow sales through continue the recycling of capital to deliver higher returns the website from developments communicate, and start working towards, our 2030 corporate deliver nancing for the intu Costa del Sol development responsibility strategy
