14 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DELIVERING FOR STUDENTS Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 15 Richard Smith Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to report another strong set We have actively prioritised improving Financial highlights of results for the year ended 31 December the quality of our portfolio by using EPRA earnings 2017.
We have maintained our focus on our customer insight and extensive delivering sustainable growth in recurring local knowledge to align with the top 12% 70.5m profits and cash flows over the long term, performing Universities.
We completed and on delivering a Home for Success for two important strategic initiatives during EPRA EPS all the students who live with us.
We do this the year with the acquisition of a 3,067- by providing great service and operating bed, on-campus portfolio at Aston 7% 30.3p brilliant buildings, designed specifically for University and the sale of 4,800 beds students.
Our investment discipline ensures that did not meet the long-term strategic we maintain a robust capital structure and goals of our portfolio.
These initiatives are Profit before tax deliver high-quality earnings.
supported by our ongoing development 14% activity and further University partnership 229.4m Performance in 2017 resulted in opportunities to ensure that we are another year of growth in EPRA earnings, increasingly focused on the best Basic EPS like-for-like rents and development profits.
EPRA earnings increased by 12% to 70.5 6% 95.3p million and now represents one-third of total Delivering for students shareholder returns.
The focus on delivery Our business is focused on delivering Dividend per share of the ongoing earnings performance of a Home for Success: an affordable, the business is increasingly underpinned consistent and high quality living 26% 22.7p by University backed contracts giving us environment that helps students make the confidence to increase our dividend the most of their time at University.
Going EPRA NAV per share pay-out from 75% to 85% of EPRA EPS to University should be more than simply in 2018. a stepping stone to employment and 11% 720p we strongly believe that where a student We will continue to focus on growing lives has a material impact on their social earnings, both in absolute terms and as a and academic development.
We strive to Total accounting return proportion of our total return.
This is driven ensure that every aspect of our student by our ability to maintain full occupancy, proposition is therefore designed to 14% to continue growing rental levels on an provide a safe and secure environment annual basis, the consistent focus on cost where they can integrate and develop, Loan-to-value efficiencies and from the completion of academically and socially.
31% Our student proposition is delivered by Our PRISM operating platform, 1,400 highly experienced employees, which became fully operational in whose understanding of students is a 2016, coupled with our experienced cornerstone of our success.
As part of our management and leadership teams, give strategy, we continue to invest in recruiting, us a unique capability to drive value from retaining and developing the very best our portfolio through scale efficiencies and people.
This commitment is reflected in revenue management, supporting our the results of our employee effectiveness ongoing income focus.
surveys and the prestigious Investors in People Gold Standard accreditation and we are pleased to have achieved the Living Wage Employer accreditation.
We also recognise that going to University is a significant investment for young people and offer a variety of accommodation at different price points, with the majority of our rooms concentrated at a midrange price point for purpose-built student accommodation.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 16 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED This commitment to the customer is The delivery of great customer service During 2017, we opened 2,150 new beds, reflected in average occupancy of to students and Universities has translated added 3,067 beds to our portfolio through 98% and rental growth of 3.5% over into a strong financial performance in 2017, the Aston Student Village acquisition and the last five years.
Growing numbers delivering occupancy of 99% and rental sold 4,800 beds.
Taking into account these of second and third year students, who growth of 3.4% 2016: 98%, 3.8%.
With our activities, together with valuation have traditionally preferred to live in private new operating system, PRISM, we have also movements, the value of our investment rented accommodation, are choosing to delivered further improvements to our NOI portfolio including our share of USAF and return to us and now account for over margin and overhead efficiency measure.
LSAV is 2.4 billion as at 31 December 2017. two-thirds of our direct-let bookings.
Customer service satisfaction levels, a key Our people, University relationships, The purpose-built student accommodation performance indicator for us, remain at the quality of our portfolio and PRISM, sector continues to attract a significant consistently high levels and place us on our operating platform, set us apart from level of institutional capital.
Over 4 billion a par with some of the best service the other operators in the sector.
Going of assets were traded in the year, driving companies across Europe.
forward, I am confident they will support yield compression across the sector.
the future growth and financial The yield movement on our portfolio, Partner of choice for Universities performance of the business.
on a like-for-like basis, was 15 basis points Our focus on customer service is closely and the portfolio is valued at an average aligned with the priorities of our University Operating quality buildings portfolio yield of 5.2% 2016: 2.1 billion partners, for whom student experience is The quality, location and scale of our and 5.45% yield.
now a key performance metric under the portfolio is a key component of our Governments new Teaching Excellence business model and long-term strategy.
With students spending more We aim to operate buildings in and time in their accommodation than on around high quality Universities, where campus, we can increasingly demonstrate student demand is highest.
We believe to Universities how Home for Success that our focus on these institutions is the supports their strategic ambitions.
best strategy for driving continued high levels of occupancy and rental growth.
This, combined with a long standing We are therefore focusing our portfolio commitment to building relationships with activity on further improving alignment key University decisionmakers, is reflected to high and mid ranked Universities and, in the latest results of our independently in the process, underpinning rental assessed University trust survey and means growth over the medium and long that 60% of our accommodation is now term.
We currently have 85% of our beds let to Universities through nominations occupied by students attending such agreements.
With an average remaining Universities, which will increase to 90% on life of six years, these agreements provide completion of our existing development income and rental growth certainty on pipeline, planned acquisitions over half of our revenue.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 17 Development pipeline Secondly, following the year We also made excellent progress end, Unite recently secured a new Q&A with the Chief Executive with our development pipeline during development site in London.
Working Richard Smith addresses some topical the year.
We completed five new with planning support from Kings questions from our shareholders buildings over the summer and secured College, London we will submit a planning an additional two new development application to build around 1,000 beds of Q What is the impact of the new schemes, which increases our secured cluster-flat accommodation in the second Teaching Excellence Framework on development pipeline for delivery over half of the year.
We expect to enter into a your strategy?
the next three years to 7,550 beds.
The long-term nominations agreement over construction of all our 2018 openings is this property, providing much needed A The TEF results reinforce our strategy progressing in line with plans.
Planning capacity in a location where there is a of partnering with midto high-ranking consents and build contracts are in severe shortage of high quality affordable Universities.
Currently 85% of our beds are place for all of our 2019 deliveries and student accommodation.
This is our first aligned to these types of institutions, and we are finalising our plans for schemes land acquisition in London since 2013, with new developments such as Cowley delivering in 2020. facilitated by the correction in land values in Oxford and Middlesex Street in London, seen in certain zone 1 locations and our we are expecting this to grow to 90% During 2017, USAF completed its two ability to unlock value through our on completion of our existing forward-fund schemes in Oxford and relationships with Universities.
Edinburgh and acquired three further Student satisfaction and retention forward-fund schemes in Durham and The initial development returns on these are key measures of TEF, and we Birmingham, adding 1,000 beds to the University-backed schemes are 67%, believe our strategy can help our portfolio on completion in 2018 and 2019. around 100 basis points lower than a University partners excel in these areas, scheme where Unite takes full letting and continuing to make us an attractive The anticipated yield on cost of our rental growth risk.
However, total returns are accommodation partner.
secured development pipeline is 8.1% expected to be 910% and given the and prospective returns on new schemes University relationships and the security of Q outside London remain attractive at income the agreements provide, these You bought and sold more properties around 8.0%.
The secured development opportunities are strategically important than in previous years in 2017.
pipeline is highly accretive and remains and remain value enhancing.
A The quality of our portfolio is a key a significant component of our future differentiator between Unite and our earnings growth and could contribute We continue to see attractive competitors.
We continually review it to 1012 pence per share to EPRA earnings development and partnership ensure we have the best properties, in the once built out.
opportunities in strong University markets right locations, and are aligned with midand we plan to invest selectively in target to high-ranking Universities, supporting the University partnerships markets to enhance portfolio quality and quality earnings profile of the business.
Following the success of the Aston University deliver target returns.
This strategy drives both our acquisitions, transaction, Unite has secured two further and our disposal activity.
By disposing of University partnership schemes.
Firstly, properties which no longer fit our quality during the year, we acquired the former criteria, we can continue to invest in Cowley Barracks in Oxford.
Working with new, exciting opportunities such as our Oxford Brookes University, we have secured acquisition of Aston Student Village.
planning permission to build 887 beds and agreed terms for a 25-year nominations Read more in our agreement with the University, taking our Property review on p36 partnership with them to over 1,365 beds.
The agreement provides the University with much-needed accommodation and Unite with income and rental growth certainty over the long term.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 18 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Acquisitions and disposals High-quality earnings and a strong The Group also secured an investment We also continue to target acquisitions capital structure grade credit rating and arranged a new of completed assets and portfolios that We have achieved 99% occupancy 500 million, five-year unsecured debt enhance the quality of our portfolio and across our portfolio and rental growth of facility, providing additional financing the earnings profile of the business.
With 60% of this income underpinned headroom, greater flexibility and a acquisitions are generally targeted through by University nominations agreements, we reduced cost of funding.
our co-investment vehicles due to their have a high level of visibility in the ongoing lower cost of capital, allowing us to occupancy and rental growth outlook of Market and strategy generate enhanced returns through our the portfolio.
In addition to revenue growth, The outlook for the student asset management and acquisition fees.
a focus on efficiency has resulted in further accommodation sector remains During 2017, USAF acquired one 437-bed improvements in our NOI margin, which is up positive, with structural factors continuing completed asset in Sheffield for 36 million.
to 74.1% 2016: 73.1%, and in our overhead to drive a demand-supply imbalance in Since the year end, USAF has acquired efficiency which shows that our overheads, the cities where we operate.
The UK a 331-bed investment asset in Edinburgh net of management fees, represents 40 Higher Education sector is recognised for 24 million.
basis points of gross asset value 2016: 40 globally for the strength of its Universities basis points.
Having put in place a 5 million and the contribution it makes to research, Disposals remain an important part efficiency programme in 2017 Unite share: innovation, talent development and the of our strategy and we will continue 3.8 million, we remain confident about UK economy more broadly.
The UK is to recycle assets out of our portfolio to achieving further efficiency gains and the second most popular destination for ensure that we can continue increasing delivering our targets of 75% and 2530 basis international students and has 12 out of our exposure to the UKs best Universities, points by the end of 2018 and will continue the worlds top 100 Universities and 59 of while generating capital to invest in to review how to deliver further efficiencies Europes top 200 Universities.
In February further development activity and exciting in 2019 and beyond.
2018, the Government announced a opportunities such as the Aston Student Funding Review.
The details of the review Village acquisition.
During 2017, we sold Unites share of net debt grew by 27 million are yet to be made clear but we do not 181 million of assets at a 5 million to 803 million in 2017.
The majority of our believe that it will not have a detrimental premium to book valuations Unite share.
property and development expenditure impact on the UKs globally-renowned We intend to sell 75125 million Unite Unite share 185 million was funded by our Higher Education sector.
share of assets during 2018 to take disposal programme with the remainder advantage of the ongoing strength in from retained earnings.
We reduced LTV to Total student numbers again reached the investment market and to ensure 31% 2017: 34% as a result of disposals, the record levels at over 1.8 million.
The that we maintain a strong and flexible conversion of the convertible bond and number of applicants and the number balance sheet as we progress our asset value appreciation.
This is at the lower of students accepted into courses in 2017 development pipeline.
end of our target range, and we expect to was at 700,000 and 534,000 respectively increase back to around the mid-30% level 2016: 725,000 and 540,000.
Despite a fall as we build out the development pipeline.
in applications of 3%, Universities were able Our net debt to EBITDA ratio is 6.5 2016: 6.9, to recruit from the excess of applications, again within our target level of 6.07.0, resulting in intake falling by less than which we intend to maintain.
0.5% with applicants still outstripping acceptances by 166,000.
The small reduction in applications was driven principally by changes to funding for some medical related courses and a small reduction in EU students.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 19 Going forward, the gap between We believe our exposure to changes in the number of applicants and University student numbers and increases in supply is places could be impacted by some mitigated by our alignment and relationship external factors, including the impact with high-quality Universities, underpinned of the UK leaving the EU.
Since 2015, a by nominations agreements, and remain demographic trend has seen a reduction confident that well-located, mid-range, in the number of 1821 year olds, and this direct-let student accommodation will trend affects the next three years.
However, continue to support high levels of participation rates continue to increase occupancy and rental growth.
with applicants still outstripping the places offered by Universities.
We expect high and Outlook mid-ranked Universities, where our business Building on our consistent is focused, to continue attracting more performance record and supportive students than those at the lower end of the market fundamentals the Group remains league tables and therefore we believe our well placed to deliver sustainable earnings portfolio remains well placed to withstand growth in the years ahead.
UK Universities any potential reductions in applications.
continue to demonstrate their ability to adapt and respond to a changing The student accommodation sector landscape and retain their globally has attracted significant levels of capital recognised status.
The demand for high investment over the last four years with quality Higher Education among both over 16 billion of investment activity.
This UK and international students continues increased investment activity has seen the to grow.
Our development pipeline and new supply of accommodation increase operational expertise provides good and the total number of purpose-built visibility of future rental growth and beds including University-owned beds increasing recurring earnings.
We are grow to 580,000 beds representing around confident that our strategy of aligning one-third of the UKs student population.
our operations with the best performing At this level, there remains a shortage of Universities in the UK, combined with our purpose-build accommodation compared highly scalable operating platform, to the numbers of first years, international strong brand and reputation makes us and increasingly second and third-year well-positioned to extend our market students.
The outlook suggests that the leading position.
rate of new supply will continue at a similar rate of around 25,000 beds in 2018, before Richard Smith starting to reduce in 2019.
Moreover, a large Chief Executive Officer proportion of the new supply is focused 21 February 2018 on the premium end of the market and we believe the competitive threat that it poses to our more mainstream proposition is limited.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
