Strategic Report Chief Executives Review We are continuing to deliver Record profit and strong and by acquisition: in manufacturing, in sales growth our operating capabilities: and in building further knowledge in our people.
2017 was a year of significant progress for Croda: a year of record profits and At the heart of our business is a creative strong organic sales growth: and a year and customer focused innovation when all core sectors and major regions programme.
This is harnessed within contributed to growth.
Our strategy a powerful culture: a culture where the continues to deliver.
We are achieving can do attitude, free thinking and deep consistent top and bottom line growth.
understanding of our customers needs It is pleasing to see this growth balanced set us apart from our competition, which across each of our core sectors, reinforcing delivers great value for all our stakeholders.
that Croda has three strong legs of growth.
Our culture is the raw material that drives We have continued our relentless focus our innovation spirit.
In 2017, this helped on innovation, growing strongly in premium New and Protected Product NPP sales niches, across all customers big grow for the fifth consecutive year to a and small.
We have more It is pleasing to see growth intellectual property IP in the business In constant currency, adjusted profit before today than five years ago.
tax increased 6.5% on sales 4.6% higher.
balanced across each of With around 95% of our sales outside the Over the last 12 months, we have our sectors, with three UK, the weakness of Sterling in the first acquired or invested in four fast growth strong legs of growth.
half year benefited our reported currency disruptive technology companies, including results, with sales increasing by 10.4% to Nautilus, a source of new marine biotech Steve Foots 1,373.1m and adjusted profit before tax active ingredients.
We invested over Group Chief Executive up 11.1% to a record 320.3m.
150 million in capacity, three times depreciation, including in Beauty Actives, With our strategy broadly unchanged over Sales growth a bio-surfactant plant in North America to many years, we take a long term view of supply sustainable ingredients to consumer investing and developing our business and industrial markets, and in high purity 10.4% and our people.
Health Care and Smart Materials 2016: 15.0% Our job is to provide unique performing technologies.
We created a new digital ingredients, satisfying the unmet needs of NPP sales as % of Group sales team to unlock new ways to better reach our customers whilst delivering significant and serve our customers.
value for both them and Croda.
Through 27.6% 2017 we have continued to invest: in Accelerating top line growth 2016: 27.4% Research & Development R&D, through constant currency sales up 4.6% our local laboratory expansion programme: Return on sales Sales increased by 10.4% to 1,373.1m.
in Open Innovation, collaborating with many This included a 5.8% benefit from currency universities: and in Smart Partnering, with a translation due to weaker Sterling in the 24.2% number of new commercial partnerships first half of the year.
We have continued to invest in currency increased by 4.6% and there was faster growth technologies, both organically no material impact from acquisitions.
Case studies Making ethylene oxide sustainable Our new range of ECO surfactants is 100% has registered millions of hours of incident-free We have been manufacturing ethoxylates at our renewable with performance matching that operating time.
Atlas Point facility since the 1940s and produce of petrochemical based options.
The detailed process design was subjected to many globally recognised surfactants and Community benefit rigorous hazard studies to identify and eliminate emulsifiers.
Our facility has always been a supportive and problems.
Our contractors worked a combined active member of the local community.
During 800,000 hours without injury, something of Our ingredients have provided solutions to our construction, this project has created over 250 which we are very proud.
customers application problems that had local construction jobs and we have recruited previously been very difficult to solve.
30 new, local, full-time employees to operate There is growing demand to increase the the ECO plant.
proportion of bio-based, renewable ingredients in consumer products.
Our new bio-based Safety at ECO ethylene oxide is now a recognised replacement Process safety principles have been applied at for petrochemical based ethylene oxide.
We partnered with a specialist EO process design company which Croda International Plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Personal Care growth was a particular business saw improving demand for of manufacture.
Sector sales grew by highlight, with constant currency sales up solar protection, hair and colour cosmetics 4.6% in constant currency and adjusted over 5%, successfully reversing a decline in ingredients.
The Beauty Formulations operating profit increased to 97.0m with the more mature Specialities market whilst business increased differentiation and return on sales of 30.1% 2016: 28.1%.
continuing to deliver faster growth in the competitiveness in our heritage ingredients Performance Technologies: premium Actives market.
Life Sciences portfolio and returned to healthy sales transitioning to more focused achieved a strong second half year, with growth.
Sales to multinational customers innovation high purity drug excipients and crop also returned to growth, after several difficult Performance Technologies continued delivery systems performing well.
Following years, alongside continued fast growth with its journey to value over volume.
We exceptionally strong demand at the start of regional and local customers through our focused on developing faster growth the year, Performance Technologies distributed model which puts us closer to technologies in the premium Smart streamlined sales to target value over customers.
This was enhanced by new Materials and Energy Technologies volume growth and drive significant margin digital capabilities to support the growing markets.
2017 saw strong structural improvement in the second half year.
demand from newer Indie customers.
growth in the first half of the year, Sales grew 5.3% in constant currency and Continued profit growth adjusted particularly in lubricants and oil and gas adjusted operating profit increased 3.3% EPS up 10.5% in constant currency markets, with growth in the second half on the same basis to 155.5m, reflecting a Adjusted profit before tax increased by year moderating as the sector focused modest decline in return on sales due to the 11.1% to 320.3m.
Profit before tax on an on increasing value and more selectively broader product mix.
IFRS basis rose strongly to 314.1m.
Sales grew by 6.6% increase in top line sales was supported Life Sciences: innovation and in constant currency, whilst adjusted by an improved margin, reflecting higher Incotec integration delivering faster operating profit increased to 75.4m, the NPP sales and an improved product mix.
profit growth second year of double digit percentage Return on sales increased by 20 basis Life Sciences delivered its target of faster constant currency profit growth.
Adjusted EPS rose 10.5% profit growth through new innovative some margin compression in the first half in constant currency and 14.9% in reported technologies and Incotec margin year from raw material price increases, currency to 179.0p.
The proposed final improvement, in line with our strategic return on sales increased by 120 basis dividend has been increased by 11.5% objective of creating a business to match points in the second half year, and is to 46.0p.
Sales of IP-rich delivery progressing towards our 20% medium systems were supported by a resurgence term target.
Personal Care: strong sales in Crop Protection demand in the second improvement with stable margin Continued growth in Asia and Europe: half year, reflecting investment in faster The return to robust growth in Personal return to growth in North America innovation through collaboration with our Care reflected self-help measures to Sales grew organically in our three largest agrochemical customers.
The integration of improve sales performance whilst regions.
Asia and Europe continued to our Seed Enhancement business, Incotec, protecting margin.
This saw the creation drive growth, with Core Business sales continued to progress successfully, with of three businesses to reflect the differing in constant currency in Asia up 6%, rationalisation of the geographic footprint characteristics of each end market, where leveraging recent investment to increase completed and new R&D investments our investment in R&D is bearing fruit.
In Health Care we exited Strong innovation-led growth in Beauty improved market confidence saw sales our North American generic Active Actives helped sector NPP exceed 40% on the same basis increase by 5%, with Pharmaceutical Ingredients API contract of sales, a record.
Our Beauty Effects excellent progress in new geographies in following a successful four year period Renewable energy at Atlas Point Carbon footprint of ECO range Carbon footprint of ECO products In 2012, we invested US$8m in a renewable We have modelled the Life Cycle Analysis of our compared with traditional ethoxylates energy project, using gas from a local landfill site ECO products, focusing on the climate change to generate electricity and steam.
In 2013, we impact category, in alignment with ISO 14067. invested an additional US$2.3m in solar panels 4 If a typical ECO product family was made using to further reduce annual CO2 emissions.
100% renewable energy, we would see a further Avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions reduction in the carbon footprint.
3 Our use of landfill gas, combined with lower Traditional consumption of natural gas, has led to a ethoxylate 2 reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of close ECO range to 1 million tonnes.
with current site 100% energy mix 1 renewable surfactants ECO range, 100% renewable 0 energy Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 kgCO2 kg Strategic Report | Chief Executives Review Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Deliver consistent top and bottom Investing in new technologies Actions taken in North America restored line growth We continue to identify new technologies growth to 8% on the same basis, for Croda to deliver to its customers.
Increase the proportion of protected supported by strong market conditions.
We seek to acquire new technologies innovation Whilst full year constant currency sales in both organically, by creating our own 3.
Accelerate the capture of new Latin America were slightly below 2016, capability where none exists in the market, sustainable technologies.
growth turned positive in the second and inorganically, by acquisition.
Alongside half year, helped by macroeconomic Alongside the strong growth and increased our new bio-surfactant plant, organic stabilisation and our investment in capacity.
NPP, we continued to build our platform investment included continued development of sustainable technologies.
Sustainability of our global market-leading Matrixyl Robust financial platform funding connects every aspect of Crodas business Personal Care brand, with the launch investment and is an increasing requirement and of the next generation in skin rejuvenation, Croda continues to deliver good cash differentiating factor for our customers Matrixyl Morphomics, and new solar generation and maintain a strong balance and their consumers.
We have adopted protection products, such as Solaveil sheet with flexibility for organic investment, ISO 26000, the international sustainability CTP7, for use in silicone-based sun acquisition and returns to shareholders.
Our bio-surfactant plant will see care, especially popular in Asia.
New This cash is used to invest in R&D, faster the launch in 2018 of our ECO range of technologies developed for Life Sciences growth technologies and manufacturing products, enabling customers to build included new high purity drug delivery capacity.
In 2017, Crodas capital sustainably focused consumer brands systems and advanced crop protection investment peaked, with over 150m of without sacrificing performance.
Our and seed enhancement systems, including capital expenditure to support future environmental programme is enhancing seed encrustment, which enables growth.
This included completion of the our reputation for producing the best customers to add more active and installation phase of our industry leading sustainable ingredients whilst reducing our complex formulations, increasing crop bio-surfactant plant in North America, with environmental burden on the planet and yields and reducing environmental impact.
commissioning expected around the end of our local communities, with a focus on We continued to build the technology the first quarter 2018.
We made three carbon neutrality and in helping our pipeline in Performance Technologies, technology acquisitions and investments TM customers manage risk through the commercialising MyCroFence, a during 2017.
ROIC remained a multiple of assurance provided by our responsible novel surface active antimicrobial our cost of capital at 19.2% 2016: 19.3%, sourcing programme.
Highlights across our coatings technology.
ahead of realising the benefits of recent manufacturing sites in 2017 included a investments and acquisitions.
Despite the Inorganic investment includes both 16% reduction in waste to landfill and 5% significant level of investment, leverage bolt-on acquisitions of established reduction in water withdrawal since 2015. reduced to the lower end of our target businesses, such as our 2015 purchase range at 1.0x net debt to EBITDA.
To deliver our strategy we are investing in: of Incotec, and technology acquisitions of novel chemistries.
We particularly target new technologies Delivering a sustainable strategy opportunities where Crodas existing R&D greater R&D Croda delivers shareholder value by and global sales and marketing network new operational capability and creating innovative ingredients for allow for profitable scale up.
We acquired niche markets, satisfying the unmet needs Enza Biotech, developing the next our people.
of our customers, globally and locally.
generation of renewable surfactants: Our strategy to achieve this comprises IonPhasE, an innovative supplier of static three components: Our Strategic Approach Delivering Growth KPIs: Driving Innovation Return on sales p24 Through our direct selling business model, Innovation plays a critical role across our Core Business sales growth p24 ourpeople build intimate relationships withour Business, with dedicated business sector customers large and small, working closely research and development teams creating new Key risks: withthem totarget niche, rapidly growing ingredients in collaboration with our customers.
markets where our innovative and sustainable Revenue generation in established and Working with our open innovation partners approach isvalued.
Our flexible and agile emerging markets p32 and through smart partnering, we identify structure enables our people tostay close to unique opportunities that add value to our Talent development and retention p32 our customers around the world, whilst working customers products and satisfy the needs together as one global team torespond of their consumers.
It is a combination of quickly todemands identified by changing the ingredients we create and the way we demographics in a fragile world p04.
operate that enables our customers to build on our innovations.
Croda International Plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report electricity protection, operating in faster We have expanded this European Investing in our people growth segments of the electronics and programme to Asia.
Our people and the culture that they automotive markets: and invested in embody are at the centre of our success.
Smart Partnering has seen Croda coCutitronics, a UK innovator of personalised, We continue to invest in our people, with a invest with industry technology leaders.
focus on sales and technical skills to serve We opened a state-of-the-art Centre of our increasing number of customers.
We This focus on new technology also saw Innovation for Formulation Science at have added biotech scientists through our Croda invest in digital.
We continued to the Materials Innovation Factory at the acquisition of Enza: digital capability, digitalise Crodas enterprise, introducing University of Liverpool.
We are partnering including the appointment of a Chief Digital high throughput robotic analytical testing with a leader in innovative special effect Officer: and agronomy specialists through to accelerate R&D.
We are introducing pigments, in the fast growing colour Incotec.
Following a Global Employee new digitally enabled customer offerings, cosmetics market.
We have expanded Culture Survey in 2017, a programme is building on our new web platform, in-house innovation capability, increasing developing and reinforcing the values and increasing the services we provide smaller R&D capacity at Sederma, our flagship behaviours which make Crodas culture and Indie customers.
We are collaborating Beauty Actives business, where 80% of special.
We are driving delivery of our in new digital ecosystems, for example sales come from NPP.
The global market diversity plans.
through our investment in Cutitronics, leader, Sederma remains at the forefront of where digital skin devices will unlock disruptive technology, through the addition Outlook powerful consumer data for skin health.
of plant stem cell technology from IRB and, We have entered 2018 with momentum in 2018, marine biotech actives from Investing in greater R&D and a platform on which to deliver long Nautilus.
We also expanded R&D facilities Our lifeblood is innovation.
In the year ahead, we will in Brazil, Japan, Korea, South Africa and in expanded and accelerated our innovation continue to invest in: Seed Enhancement in the Netherlands, the programmes through internal and external latter part of our investment to establish Fast growth technologies, both projects.
NPP sales in 2017 were below our new innovation-driven sales in Incotec.
organically and by acquisition, to target to grow at twice the rate of non-NPP support future profitable growth: sales, reflecting the return to growth in the Investing in new operational capability underlying business.
However, NPP sales 2017 has seen the biggest organic R&D, through successful Open were 75% higher than in 2012, with the capacity investment in Crodas recent Innovation and Smart Partnering proportion of NPP rising from 20.5% of total history.
In addition to our bio-surfactant programmes: sales to 27.6% over the same period.
plant, we have created a global centre of Manufacturing, through improved excellence in solar protection, invested in operating capabilities: and We supported our experienced R&D team emerging geographies by expanding local through enhanced Open Innovation and Our people, building creativity, manufacture in Latin America and India, Smart Partnering programmes.
With almost innovation and expertise.
and increased biotech production in the 400 partners and comprising over 100 UK.
We have major investments underway We are confident of delivering continued completed and 75 ongoing projects, Open to expand capacity in high purity excipients progress in 2018.
Innovation gives Croda access to chemists, in Health Care and in our UK polymer biologists and agronomists in universities additives business, where we are a global and specialist research laboratories and leader in slip, anti-static and anti-scratch enterprises, adding over 12m of external solutions to customers in the premium funding since the programme commenced.
Steve Foots packaging and automotive industries.
Group Chief Executive KPIs: Sustainable Solutions KPIs: NPP sales % p24 Non-fossil fuel energy % p25 We continue to build on our renewable raw Relative NPP sales growth p24 Lost time injury rate p25 material heritage to create, make andsell sustainable solutions today, topositively Key risks: Key risks: influence tomorrow.
By investing in innovative Product and technology innovation p32 product design and flexible operations, we are Product liability claims p32 working with our supply chain todevelop Protect new intellectual property p32 Major safety or environmental incident p33 ingredients that deliver more benefit, with less Talent development and retention p32 Security of raw material supply p33 impact.
This, coupled with our participation inregulatory debates, ensures that we are Major capital project management p33 providing solutions to the opportunities Chemical regulatory compliance p33 presented by our globalmega trends p04.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
