1 14 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WE ARE PROGRESSING OUR STRATEGY AGAINST ABACKDROP OF FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE IN THE UK ENERGYMARKET WILL GARDINER CHIEF EXECUTIVE, DRAX GROUP KEY MILESTONES IN 2017 1 Acquisition of Opus Energy 2 Refinancing complete 3 Acquisition and commissioning of LaSalle Bioenergy 4 Confirmation of new dividend policy 5 Commenced planning application for coal-to-gas repowering and battery storage option PERFORMANCE 1 Significant growth in EBITDA across all areas of the Group 2 Mixed results in Group scorecard 3 Positive safety record continued 4 Stretching operational targets not achieved 5 Strong contribution from B2B Energy Supply Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 15 15 MARKET BACKGROUND On a statutory basis we recorded a loss of The UK is undergoing an energy revolution 151 million, which reflects unrealised losses 229m a transition to a low-carbon economy on derivative contracts, previously announced accounting policy on the requiring new energy solutions for power EBITDA generation, heating, transport and the wider accelerated depreciation on coal-specic 2017: 140m economy.
Through our flexible, lower carbon assets as well as amortisation of newlyelectricity proposition and business to acquired intangible assets in Opus Energy.
In Power Generation, we experienced a business B2B energy solutions, the Group We also calculate underlying earnings, a significant incident on our biomass rail ispositioning itself for growth in this profit after tax of 2.7 million, which excludes unloading facilities, including a small re on environment.
More details can be seen the effect of unrealised gains and losses on a section of conveyor.
We fully investigated onpage 4. derivative contracts and, toassess the the incident and following repairs over the performance of the Group without the Christmas period have now recommissioned OUR STRATEGY income statement volatility introduced by the facility, with enhanced operating Our purpose is to help change the way non-cash fair value adjustments on our procedures.
This is a timely reminder of the energy is generated, supplied and used.
portfolio of forward commodity and combustible nature of biomass and the need currency futures contracts.
for strong controls and processes to protect Through addressing UK energy needs, and our people and assets.
those of our customers, our strategy is During the year we renanced our existing designed to deliver growing earnings and debt facilities, reducing our debt cost.
We Our biomass units continued to produce cash flow, alongside significant cash returns also confirmed a new dividend policy which high levels of renewable electricity from for shareholders.
will pay a sustainable and growing dividend sustainable wood pellets for the UK market 50 million in respect of 2017, consistent Drax produced 15% of the UKs renewable Our ambition is to grow our EBITDA to over with our commitment to a strong balance electricity enough to power Shefeld, 425million by 2025, with over a third of sheet and our ambitions for growth.
At year Leeds, Liverpool and Manchester combined.
those earnings coming from Pellet end our net debt was 91million below our In doing so, we are making a vital Production and B2B Energy Supply to create 2x net debt to EBITDA target, providing contribution to the UKs ambitious targets a broader, more balanced earnings prole.
There is more detail on for decarbonisation across electricity We intend to payasustainable and growing our financial performance in the Group generation, heating and transport an 80% dividend toshareholders.
Progression Financial Review on page 46. reduction by 2050 vs. 1990 levels.
towards thesetargets is underpinned by In the US, our Pellet Production operations safety, sustainability, operational excellence We benefited from the first year of operation and expertise in our markets.
recorded year-on-year growth in output of of our third biomass unit under the Contract 35%, with our first two plants now producing for Difference CfD scheme which provides SUMMARY OF 2017 at full capacity.
During the second half of an index-linked price for the power produced We made significant progress during 2017, 2017 we also completed the installation of until March 2027.
The unit underwent a additional capacity enabling our Morehouse but were below our expectations on the major planned outage between September challenging scorecard targets we set and Amite facilities to handle a greater and November, with a full programme of ourselves in pellet production and biomass amount of residue material, supporting works successfully completed.
availability, the latter reflecting the efforts to produce goodquality pellets at the significant incident we experienced on our lowest cost.
The flexibility, reliability and scale of our biomass rail unloading facilities at the end renewable generation, alongside an of2017, which extended into January 2018.
As part of our target to expand our biomass attractive total system cost, means we are Energy Supply performed well with Opus self-supply capability we completed the strongly placed to play a long-term role in the Energy in line with plan and Haven Power acquisition of LaSalle Bioenergy LaSalle UKs energy mix.
To that end we continue to exceeding its targets.
Through a adding pellet production capacity.
LaSalle see long-term biomass generation as a key combination of this performance and the commenced commissioning in November enabler, allowing the UK Government to progress of our strategy we have delivered 2017 and due to its close proximity to our meet its decarbonisation targets and the EBITDA of 229million, signicantly ahead existing US facilities, once complete, will system operator to manage the grid.
of 2016 140 million and with each of our provide further opportunities for supply three businesses contributing positive chain optimisation.
The UK Government recently confirmed EBITDA forthe rsttime.
support for further biomass generation at As in 2016, we benefited from the flexibility Drax Power Station and we now plan to The Group scorecard is reported in full in the of self-supply.
This often overlooked continue our work to develop a low-cost Remuneration Report and the KPIs are also attribute of our supply chain enables us to solution for a fourth biomass unit, allowing shown on the following pages of this review.
manage biomass supply across the Power us to provide even more renewable They reflect the diversity of our operations Generation business planned outage electricity, whilst supporting system stability and our need to maintain clear focus on seasonand to benefit from attractively at minimum cost to the consumer.
priced biomass cargoes in the short-term spot market.
1 16 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Our heritage is coal, but our future is flexible In October 2017 we completed the sale of B2B Energy Supply customer meters lower-carbon electricity.
We are making Billington Bioenergy BBE to Aggregated progress with the development of four new Micro Power Holding AMPH.
Consideration for the transaction was 2.3 million, standalone OCGT plants situated in eastern 375k England and Wales and our work to develop comprised of 1.6million of shares in AMPH options for coal-to-gas repowering with and 0.7million of cash.
If these options would Running a resilient, reliable grid is not simply be supported by 15-year capacity market The sale of BBE is aligned with our strategy about meeting the power demand on the contracts, providing a clear investment to focus on B2B energy supply.
However, system: there are also system support signal and extending visibility of contractthrough our shareholding in AMPH, we will services which are essential to its effective based earnings out to the late2030s.
retain an interest in the UK heating market, operation.
As the grid decentralises and whilst gaining exposure to the development becomes dependent on smaller, distributed In B2B Energy Supply, we completed the of small-scale distributed energy assets.
generation, the number of plants able to acquisition of Opus Energy, a supplier of provide these services is reducing.
Biomass electricity and gas to corporates and small POLITICAL, REGULATORY AND generation, our proposed OCGTs and our businesses.
The transaction completed in ECONOMIC BACKGROUND repowering project would allow us to meet February 2017 and Opus Energy has We continue to operate in a changing these needs, but this will not come for free.
continued to operate successfully within the environment.
The full impact of the UKs Areliable, flexible, low-carbon energy system Group, achieving its targets and making an decision to leave the EU is still unknown.
will require the right long-term incentives.
immediate and significant contribution toprotability.
Alongside this good The immediate impact on the Group was a In November 2017, the Government performance we have also implemented weakening of Sterling and an associated confirmed that the UK will maintain a total theoperational steps necessary to realise increase in the cost of biomass, which is carbon price the combined UK Carbon Price further operational benets of the generally denominated in other currencies.
Support CPS and the European Union acquisition, and we now source all of Through our utilisation of medium-term Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS at Opuspower and gas internally.
foreign exchange hedges the Group around the current level.
CPS has been the protected the cash impact of this weakness.
single most effective instrument in reducing Haven Power delivered a strong In 2017, Sterling has generally strengthened, the level of carbon emissions in generation performance with the sale of large volumes and wehave been able to extend our hedged and we continue to support the pricing of of electricity to industrial customers.
position out to 2022 at rates close to those carbon, a view echoed in a report prepared that we saw before Brexit.
Through our customer focus and for the UK Government by the leading efficiencies, margins have improved and academic Professor Dieter Helm.
thebusiness generated a positive EBITDA In terms of UK energy policy, the org wpcms wp-content uploads Cost of forthe first time.
Governments main focus has been on Energy Review.
pdf whatit sees as unfair treatment of domestic consumers on legacy standard variable tariff Together, our B2B Energy Supply business Against this backdrop we continue to now has over 375,000 customer meters, SVT contracts.
SVT are not a common makean important contribution to the making it the fifth largest B2B power feature of the B2B market.
According to a study supplier in the UK.
We are delivering microbusiness end of this market, which publishedbyOxford Economics in 2016 innovative low-carbon power solutions, with iscloser in size to domestic, most of our Draximpact.
co. uk, Draxs total economic 46% of our energy sold from renewable customers are on xed price products impact including our supply chain and sources.
As the power system transforms, andare active in renewing contracts.
thewages our employees and suppliers we will be working closely with our employees spend in the wider consumercustomers to help them adapt to a world The UK Governments response to its economy was 1.7 billion, supporting ofmore decentralised and decarbonised consultation on the cessation of coal 18,500jobs across theUK.
We see this as a significant generation by 2025 has confirmed an end to opportunity for the Group in themedium non-compliant coal generation by October SAFETY, SUSTAINABILITY AND PEOPLE tolongterm.
We believe our assets, projects and The health, safety and wellbeing of our ability to support our customers electricity employees and contractors is vital to the management will support the Governments Group, with safety at the centre of our ambition to maintain reliability when coal operational philosophy.
We also recognise generation ceases.
the growing need to support the wellbeing of our employees and their mental health.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 17 17 During the year we continued to use Total We have continued to maintain our rigorous Total Recordable Injury Rate Recordable Injury Rate TRIR as our primary and robust approach to biomass KPI in this area.
Performance was positive, sustainability, ensuring the wood pellets we at0.27, but we expect this to improve in the use are sustainable, low-carbon and fully 0.27 coming year.
compliant with the UKs mandatory 2016: 0.22 sustainability standards for biomass.
The The incident at our biomass rail unloading biomass we use to generate electricity facilities in December did not lead to physical provides a 64% carbon emissions saving injuries but was nonetheless a significant against gas, inclusive of supply chain event and caused disruption into 2018. emissions.
Our biomass lifecycle carbon Weconsequently launched an incident emissions are 36g CO MJ, less than half the 2 investigation to ensure our personal and UK Governments 79g CO MJ limit.
2 process safety management procedures arerobust.
Our people are a key asset of the business.
Through 2017 we developed a new people Topromote greater awareness around strategy.
The strategy focuses on driving wellbeing we have embedded this in our new performance and developing talent to people strategy see below and expect to deliver the Groups objectives.
We have focus more energy and resources on this established Group-wide practices, including important area during 2018. a career development and behaviour framework focused on performance and Strong corporate governance is at the heart personal development.
of the Group acting responsibly, doing the right thing and being transparent.
As the RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Group grows the range of sustainability A key part of our strategy is to identify issues we face is widening and recognising opportunities to improve existing operations the importance of strong corporate and create options for long-term growth.
To governance, we have published a that end we have established a dedicated comprehensive overview of our Research and Innovation R&I team led by sustainability progress in 2017 on our the Drax engineers who delivered our website.
This also highlights future priorities world-first biomass generation and supply to broaden our approach to sustainability chain solution.
and improved reporting of environment, social and governance ESG performance.
We are actively looking at ways to improve We have also completed the process which the efficiency of our operations, notably in allows us to participate intheUN Global our biomass supply chain.
Biomass is our Compact UNGC an international largest single cost and as such we are framework which will guide ourapproach focused on greater supply chain efficiency inthe areas of human rights, labour, and the extraction of value from a wide environment and anti-corruption.
range of low-value residue materials.
During 2017 we published our first statement In B2B Energy Supply we are using our on the prevention of slavery and human engineering expertise to help offer our trafcking in compliance with the UK customers value-adding services and Modern Slavery Act.
We have added modern products which will improve efficiency slavery awareness to our programme of andallow them to optimise their energy regular training for contract managers consumption.
andreviewed our counterparty due diligenceprocesses.
Page 29 for 2018 priorities In the following sections we review the performance of our businesses during theyear.
