Strategic Report Chief Executives Report I was very pleased to join ITV in January asChief Executive.
It is still early days, butIhave already visited many parts of the business and met many very talented ITV people.
I have visited our ofces in London, Manchester and Leeds, a number of our newsrooms, production companies as well as two cornerstones of our schedule, Coronation Street and Emmerdale.
I have been struck by the pride and passion ITV people have for what they do and the critical role ITV plays in society and the media ecology.
ITVs operational performance was strong in 2017 in what clearly was a challenging year with continued economic and political uncertainty impacting the demand for television advertising.
Share of viewing was up for the second year running a first ever for ITV: there was a significant increase in online viewing, up over 30% and with good revenue growth: and the Studios business also delivered good revenue growth both in total, and excluding acquisitions.
Carolyn McCall Chief Executive 14 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chief Executives Report The Board is proposing a full year dividend ITV has a strong consumer proposition of 7.8p, up 8% which reflects confidence in andfantastic content which drives mass the business and the outlook for 2018.
This audiences and key demographics which are is in line with ITVs ordinary dividend policy.
It also has the The business remains highly cash generative potential to do more targeted advertising.
but given that there is now a more normal Live television remains the preferred way ordinary dividend, five consecutive special ofwatching content, even for younger dividends, leverage around 1x and a strategic audiences.
And itgives immediate scale, refresh underway, the Board has decided reach and fame foradvertisers that just notto pay a special dividend for 2017. cannot be achieved anywhere else.
It also provides a safe, trusted and transparent ITV is in good shape but we recognise that environment in which to advertise and the media landscape continues to change generates the highest return on investment rapidly, with more content to watch and of any media.
Recent research by Ebiquity, Six Nations Rugby Championships was more ways to watch it.
The economics found that for every pound spent, TV successfully broadcast on ITV main channel arealso changing.
We are operating in generates over 4 ofprot compared to forthe second year in 2018. anincreasingly competitive market justover 2 for online video and less than traditional broadcasters are no longer our 1for online display.
only competitors for viewers, for advertising and for quality content.
These relatively While online advertising continues to grow, new competitors are also customers.
advertisers are challenging its effectiveness Wehave kicked off a strategy refresh to and what it actually delivers we are now address all of these areas and we have starting to see many more questions being identied three major areas in this refresh asked about unacceptable content, content, advertising and direct to consumer.
measurability and trust in online media.
We will have a clear strategy, together with well-dened priorities, to establish what ITV needs to be in three and five years time and what we need to do to face the challenges and exploit the opportunities ahead.
Trauma was a three-part drama broadcast on ITV main channel in February 2018 and produced by Tall Story Pictures, part of ITV Studios UK.
15 Strategic Report Chief Executives Report continued The ITV Hub delivers a high quality, trusted Netflix and Amazon are important buyers and measured environment for advertisers.
ofour content this year, Netflix will It also allows us to build direct to consumer become the biggest customer of Global relationships around our great content and Entertainment, our distribution business.
programme brands something we are And the focus isnt just on drama, they also justat the start of but already we have want unscripted content in the US.
75% of all 16 to 34 year olds registered.
Andthrough voting and competitions within And ITV Studios is an international our programmes, we had over 100 million production business of scale, with total interactions last year.
revenues of over 1.5bn 54% of which wasgenerated outside the UK and is Creating and owning quality content is activein 11 countries with a library of over arealadvantage.
We have strong relationships broadcaster model is also a benefit we have through our global production and a great opportunity to make content famous distribution network and sell content on our channels in the UK before selling it toover 200 channels globally.
Not only does our success on-screen and online depend on having fantastic content, but the global demand forhigh quality programming remains strong as broadcasters and platform owners look for brand dening content.
Emmerdale performed strongly in 2017, with an average of 6.5 million viewers and a 33% share, this was its highest share in four years.
16 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chief Executives Report Dancing on Ice returned to ITV in January 2018 after a four-year break for its tenth series.
It has been recommissioned for an 11th series.
An Hour to Catch a Killer Trevor McDonald presented this one-off documentary as part of We have had a great start to 2018.
While the economic outlook remains ITVs Crime and Punishment season broadcast Viewinghas been very strong with a uncertain, we expect ITV Family NAR to onthe main channel in 2017. schedule including the return of Dancing bepositive in the first half with Q1 up 1% OnIce, TheVoice, Vera, Endeavour, Trauma, acontinuation of the improvement we saw Six Nations rugby, record viewing for our towards the end of 2017.
In 2018 we expect keydaytime shows and the sixth episode online to show double digit revenue growth.
Our family share of viewing, so far, is up 7% and total viewing We have kicked off our strategic refresh volumes are actually up too by 3% with andwhen we report to you at the interims online viewing up 22%.
And we have a great we will be able to give you an update and schedule to come for the rest of the year some of the key headlines.
In the meantime, including the FIFA World Cup in June, we remain very focused on the business.
VanityFair, Clean Break, White Dragon, There is a lot to do and the energy and Britains Got Talent and Little Big Shots.
commitment of ITV people both creatively and commercially will help us deliver all ITV Studios has a great pipeline of new ofthis.
andreturning shows including Unforgotten, Vanity Fair, Survival of the Fittest and Im We have a solid foundation to build on and ACelebrityGet Me Out Of Here!
for ITV, astrong balance sheet and healthy cash Poldark, Bodyguard and Shetland for BBC, flows gives ITV the flexibility to make the Living the Dream for Sky and internationally right strategic decisions for the long term Love Island, The Voice, The Chase, Big Stars future of ITV in an increasingly competitive Little Star, Snowpiercer and Good Witch.
environment whilst still delivering Wehave already secured over 60% of our sustainable returns to shareholders.
expected revenue for 2018, about 100 million more than this time last year and expect to deliver good organic revenue Carolyn McCall growth in ITV Studios over the full year.
