Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT It has been a challenging year for the Group, and we have worked hard to strike an appropriate balance between continuing to make investments to further improve our competitive positioning for the medium and long term, and reacting to slowing market volume growth in many of our end markets.
A key focus of 2017 has been to pass through the significant cost price inflation that was driven by the devaluation of sterling in late 2016, and I am extremely impressed by how our businesses have approached and successfully achieved this challenge.
As a Group, we continue to focus on our customers, and whilst success of Travis Perkins, and I am delighted with the progress there is still much left to develop and improve, I am proud of we are making.
We have also made continued progress in the feedback we receive from our customers, particularly with improving the diversity of our team, and our Workforce with respect to the investments we have already put in place.
The a Difference programme making positive changes within growing utilisation of our distribution network demonstrates how theGroup.
customers value swift access to a broad range of products, and Keeping people safe is a cornerstone of our business, and the continuing growth of our online sales across the Group shows through the rigorous efforts by our business leaders, line that our customer base is ready to embrace digital solutions in managers, all colleagues and the Stay Safe function, I am pleased our markets.
to report a significant reduction in the number and frequency of For me, the most important investment programme in the Group lost time accidents in 2017.
We continue to make our sites safer today is the replacement of our Merchanting ERP systems, which for all our stakeholders.
stretches beyond an IT project, redefining our processes for how We have invested considerable capital in our businesses over the we run our business.
The change will allow our branch colleagues last four years which has been used to expand and modernise to serve our customers more completely, far more quickly and our branch network to create the only nationwide distribution with much greater efficiency, and it will deliver considerably more, centre network for building materials and to develop transactional higher quality data to our businesses which will improve our digital platforms to provide a multichannel proposition for decision making.
It will also underpin our plans to enhance our our customers.
Whilst our plans to invest in and improve our digital capabilities and enable a true multichannel solution for our propositions remain intact, the difficult market environment has merchant customers.
given us reason to pause on the pace of investment.
In 2017 we Our business is built on the quality of our people, and it is have focused capital investment on projects that are either vital with great pride that I see how our people have reacted to the to the progress of the Group, such as the Merchant ERP system, challenges we currently face.
We have added to our 30,000 or which will deliver strong positive returns in the short-term, strong team at all levels of the organisation, including our such as the expansion of Toolstation.
By maintaining strong apprenticeship scheme which was rebranded in 2017, and discipline about where capital is allocated we will weather the gives apprentices opportunities at every level of the business.
current market uncertainty, defend or grow our market positions Developing this strong pipeline of talent is vital to the on-going and position the Group for a strong future.
12 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report The long-term drivers of our business remain favourable, and attribute their progress in recent years to the work undertaken to I maintain confidence that the investments and progress we have fully understand our customers and their requirements, and the made to improve our businesses are the right ones, and that they fantastic level of customer service that they provide.
have put the Group in an excellent position to outperform our Although it can be difficult to predict exactly how the medium term markets over the medium term.
demand for commercial construction, infrastructure, residential We compete in fragmented markets where the majority of house building and industrial projects will develop, I remain very players are small, independent businesses confident that our Contracts businesses can continue to gain market share and produce profitable growth in 2018.
Our investments in recent years have built, and continue to improve, a sustainable competitive advantage, with capabilities Consumer beyond our peers The UK DIY market continues to be extremely challenging with We are developing superior customer propositions by providing consumer confidence having declined steadily throughout the right product range, at better value, through innovative the year.
We invested in our cost base in 2017 with the aim formats in both physical and virtual stores to continue the strong volume growth achieved since 2014, unfortunately the tough market conditions, increased pricing Our businesses in 2017 competition and a poor autumn Kitchen & Bathroom showroom sale period meant we did not absorb those additional costs which General Merchanting negatively impacted margins.
Significant cost reduction activity has reset the cost base for 2018, and I am encouraged by Wickes Over the last 4 years we have invested significant capital to start to the year.
We continue to make excellent progress on our create our lightside and heavyside distribution centre network, store refit programme, and our best-in-class online platform now and 2017 saw the heavyside proposition extended to all accounts for over 180m of sales every year.
TravisPerkins branches in England and Wales.
I am delighted with how our branch staff are using this capability to offer our Toolstation continues to go from strength to strength, with the customers unmatched access to over 30,000 products the next like-for-like growth rate accelerating and store expansion plan th day, and generating extended range sales for the business, as well moving at great pace.
We opened our 300 UK store in February as supporting our transactional online platform which continues 2018 in Eastleigh, Hampshire, and sales topped 300m in 2017 to grow.
In 2017, we also completed the roll-out of our new pricing for the first time.
tools across all Travis Perkins branches, allowing our branch staff to give customers more competitive and consistent pricing.
The years ahead Our kitchen distribution business, Benchmarx, continued its th It is a genuine privilege to be in my 40 year working for such a strong growth with a further 11 branches opened in 2017 taking fantastic company, surrounded by amazing people.
I would like the overall network to 183 branches.
to put on record my genuine thanks to all our colleagues across the Group: they never stop inspiring me and our wider leadership Plumbing & Heating teams, and they are the defining difference as to how we serve Whilst it is early days for the Plumbing & Heating transformation and satisfy our customers.
During my tenure, I have seen the plan, led by Tony Buffin in his role as Group COO, I am extremely business show incredible resilience in the face of disruptive encouraged by the progress that has been made.
The plan to market conditions, and I have no doubt that our businesses will merge the City Plumbing Supplies and PTS branch networks into navigate the current market challenges successfully.
a single trading entity has significantly simplified our relationships with customers, and has allowed a material reduction in Given the current UK macroeconomic environment the Group overheadcosts.
needs to maintain its flexibility in order to be able to adapt to swiftly changing end-market conditions.
As we move into The team has carried out some promising activities to improve 2018 we are determined to maintain a tight control of the cost the customer proposition across the Plumbing & Heating base, finding an appropriate balance between making positive businesses, improving the range and availability of products cost investments to improve customer service and reducing in our branches, refining our promotional activities and inefficiencies across the Group.
Whilst there is a long way still to go the early signs have been very successful, The investments we have made and continue to make to improve with positive sales growth in City Plumbing Supplies and the the customer propositions delivered by our businesses will F&PWholesalebusiness.
provide us with a considerable competitive advantage over our The decline in profitability has been arrested in the second half peers, and leave us well positioned to achieve sustainable growth of 2017, and Im confident that we can deliver positive earnings over the medium to long term.
John Carter Contracts Chief Executive The Contracts division delivered the stand-out trading 27 February 2018 performance in 2017, with all three businesses, Keyline, BSS and CCF, delivering above-market growth, and achieving good operating leverage while doing so.
