Strategic Report: Chief Executive's Statement Chief Executive's Statement The first reason Admiral has been, and remains, good news for customers is that we operate at a lower cost Unusually for a CEO statement, I am not Cheap, but maybe nasty the cynics MultiCover: Telematics 200k customers, going to talk about what a great job the might reply.
and rising : 10-month Bonus Accelerator one managers have done for the shareholders, from the nineties for real insurance anoraks Far from it.
nor about the companys performance over have all made our policies more attractive the last twelve months, or indeed, prospects and more accessible to UK motorists With an intention to renew after a claim score for the next twelve.
and householders, and helped keep our of consistently well over 90% 94.5% in 2017 acquisition costs low.
to be precise we deliver for our customers at Instead, at a time when the public support the moment of truth.
And you cannot build for the free market economy is fraying and I strongly believe that a market made up four million plus customers in the fiercely many more people see the world of business of a large number of companies competing competitive UK insurance market without as a zero sum game, where profit can only actively for customers attention and loyalty, delivering a good customer experience.
be earned at the expense of, rather than combined with appropriate regulatory in the service of, customers, Id like to talk oversight, is a recipe for the best possible Not every time.
about the value that Admiral has delivered outcome for motorists and householders, for UK motorists over the last 20 years, while We make mistakes.
and I believe that Admirals success over making, and not despite making, good the last 25 years demonstrates why.
But we recognise the long-term value of the profits throughout.
company depends on us making sure our The first reason Admiral has been, and customers, by and large, are not only glad remains, good news for customers is that to join us but also happy to stay with us.
we operate at a lower cost than almost all If Im proud of our outperformance on our competitors.
When shopping for car expense compared to the bulk of the car insurance, most motorists are looking for the David Stevens, CBE insurance market, Im doubly proud of our best possible price, along with reassurance Chief Executive Officer expense ratio advantage in our relatively new that theyll be looked after well, when 27 February 2018 and rapidly growing home insurance operation needed.
Admirals lower costs mean lower doubly proud because our cost advantage premiums for our customers.
over the market is not ten percentage points, Over most of the last 20 years our costs but nearer twenty points.
Again, this allows us P. S. I dont want to count chickens, but have been lower than our competitors by to be the top most often on price comparison in a year during which our Italian insurer at least ten percentage points of premium.
sites, while also making a profit.
Admittedly, broke through 500,000 vehicles on cover, Thats the equivalent of 50 less expense as yet, a small one, but watch this space.
delivered a fourth year of profit in a row and for a typical policy, and over 200 less for a reduced its expense ratio by an amazing six How do we achieve lower costs while higher premium policy.
And thats one of the percentage points, Im looking forward, in a delivering a great product 5 star Defaqto main reasons Admirals brands come top on few years time, to saving myself an hour or ratings available across all Admirals Motor the UKs price comparison sites more often two by recycling the above CEO Statement, products and normally a positive customer than any of our competitors.
but just substituting ConTe for Admiral.
experience, and why dont most of our In the nineties, the industry was dominated competitors manage all three?
by large, often grossly inefficient, multiWell, its not just about the constant pursuit product, composite insurers with too many of efficiencies by a loyal and motivated team layers and top heavy structures.
Most of of employee shareholders because all of us those are long gone, under the pressure from are both.
Its also about another great driver upstarts like Admiral and other, lower-cost, of growth in long-term prosperity in free Admiral-like, operators who have followed market economies innovation.
So much the better for the our life major innovations such as customer and an example of the creative Confused.
com, the first insurance price destruction which explains the success of comparison site: MultiCar and now competitive free markets.
08 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information % % 17 41 14 4th year consecutive years growth in UK Motor Best Companies to of ConTe UK Household market share Work For Awards profits customers My priorities Last year I outlined my priorities, which I indicated would be my priorities for a number of years to come.
Heres how we are doing Priority Progress in 2017 Ensure Admiral remains one of, Market leading combined ratio if not, the best car insurers in A leading UK car insurer with almost 4 million cars the UK Defaqto 5 products for UK customers Leading telematics provider and new products include short-term and car sharing insurance Demonstrate Admiral can be Record ConTe profit and 0.5 million customers a great car insurer beyond Improvements in key operating ratios the UK ConTe voted 2nd In Best Places to Work in Italy Develop sources of growth Household Insurance grown to over 650,000 customers and profits beyond car Household profit of 4.1 million insurance Launched Van and Travel Insurance in UK Launched Loans in UK Ensure Admiral stays a great Voted 23rd In Best Places to Work in World place to work Voted 6th In Best Places to Work in Europe Voted 2nd in Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For in UK Over 9,600 staff received free shares worth 3,600 but progress continues in 2018 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09
