Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have delivered good results whilst accelerating product innovation and growing our market leadership position.
Duncan Painter Chief Executive Officer Revenue from Adjusted Operating profit from continuing operations EBITDA continuing operations 375.8m 119.5m 44.5m 2016: 299.6m 2016: 95.9m 2016: 32.1m alternative performance measures are explained on page 19 The 2017 year was one of effective completion of a successful, well information, intelligence and insight that execution resulting in Organic revenue received Cannes Lions review: helps our customers evolve their growth of 6.4% while maintaining strong acceleration of the launch of approach to Product Design, Marketing Adjusted EBITDA margins of 31.8%.
Money20 20 China: and and Sales for success in this new Revenue was 375.8m 2016: build out of new capabilities digital context.
designed to accelerate our future organic growth rates.
Our top 10 brands deliver over 80% of All of our execution continues to centre our revenue and 90% of our organic on our stated strategy, which can be Each of these achievements has growth.
By continuing to optimise summarised in three goals: positioned us well to increase our growth both the focus of our teams and the To be a leading, specialist, global rate in revenue and profit in 2018.
We allocation of capital to our most information company that enables are pleased that our teams have been important brands, we have grown customers to excel in the digital able to continue to deliver on the well in 2017.
This growth allows us to economy in Product Design, ambition we set out at the time of our continue to simplify and optimise our Marketing and Sales.
IPO to become a more focused, faster business model to serve both our To accelerate the organic growth of growing company, with a greater number customers and shareholders needs.
our revenues and optimise margins of satisfied customers allowing us to and profits.
generate higher levels of returns for our In 2017 we increased the number of Through the application of a tightly shareholders.
companies we do business with, whilst focused capital allocation process, to also diversifying the number of products Our focus continues to drive achieve our goals and maximise we provide to our most significant our success value creation for our shareholders.
Growing our customer The majority of our customers are volumes, the number of products they consumer product and services With these three goals as our guide, we buy and therefore the amount they pay companies or companies in their supply have made a great deal of operational us, plus their willingness to expand their chain, who operate globally.
We have progress this year, sharpening our relationship more broadly across their built in recent years a reputation for portfolio, enhancing our product companies gives us confidence that our enabling these customers to succeed offering and acquiring exciting, strategy is working.
The rapid high-growth businesses that fit with our digitisation of commerce and of ambitions.
Examples of that progress business more generally is one of the include the: highest priorities for our customers and, sale of our heritage, largely printin many cases, their greatest challenge.
based brands: The information and capabilities we launch of three new products: provide to customers in facing this acceleration in the growth of the challenge are increasingly valued, products we launched in 2016: differentiated, trusted and pivotal to acquisitions of MediaLink and Clavis: our future growth.
Furthermore, it is evolution of Information Services becoming increasingly apparent that into the major contributor to top we are at our best when providing line growth: 4 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements A culture focussed on constant We funded these investments by Summary product improvement and customer accepting we would deliver a lower The year ahead presents great retention organic EBITDA growth rate for one opportunity for Ascential.
Economic Really listening to customers is one of year of 3%.
We have not made these markets, particularly for our most the most important skills we ask our investments lightly and have already important brands, remain strong teams to employ and is a skill we seen, through the immediate gains and particularly with our focus on supporting continually hone.
Retaining customers is capabilities created, how they will customer success in the digital economy.
at the centre of our growth model.
enable improved growth rates for 2018 Many of our clients currently achieve less and beyond.
than 20% of their total sales through We have created a culture where our digital channels.
They themselves teams are passionate about how to The best example of this is the launch recognise the need to move faster to improve the information quality and of our new Avista product within drive this critical transition and, with our relevance we provide plus how we can Groundsure which grew revenues by developments in the last 18 months, we make it easier to consume and action.
This are now very well positioned to assist At the heart of this is an environment new product format, built by our newly them to unlock this future.
where all teams are encouraged to created digital product team, has step discuss, share and take actions to first changed our results in Groundsure.
Not As we focus on our strategic objectives, understand and then address why only did the team deliver the product to it will mean a further year of change for customers leave our services.
Going a very high quality within five months, the company.
We will continue to assess through monthly reviews of lost but the impact of its design and ease of the balance of the brands and product customers, understanding the reasons use for our customers meant that we types in our company and how we can in depth and being open about how we could drive market share while also optimise our capital allocation going will improve our products and services improving our yield for this new, high forward and we will continue to take is at the tough end of our success.
The design approach proactive moves to achieve this.
Without learning taken means that we can gain further have achieved a significant transition of from our most difficult customer traction from this investment in 2018 by our business over the last five years, situations, we could easily be focusing building the next generation of our particularly since our IPO.
Nevertheless on the wrong priorities.
Creating an volume product range, leveraging the the urgency of continued and environment where people recognise efficiency of the Avista environment to accelerated transition that our the importance of these conversations drive revenue growth while also customers face to remain relevant and are willing to actively engage and streamlining our own operation.
remains just as critical for us.
Really listening to learn from the feedback is an essential our customers is foundation.
We are now applying more widely the I have great confidence in the one of the most skills of these high quality teams to capabilities and skills of the Ascential important skills Of course, our people are very proud of improve the performance of our most team, our valued relationships with our we ask our team the products and services we produce.
customers and the initiatives we have to employ.
However, by keeping a laser focus on underway to continue to deliver retention, it ensures we remain Strategic review strongly for our customers and our grounded and recognise the need for We believe that to maximise returns for shareholders.
Our success will our shareholders, our focus as a only continue by constantly improving business is best targeted at brands that Outlook the information we deliver through support customer success in the digital While still early in 2018, we are digital subscriptions, live events and economy.
To ensure that our capital encouraged by the current level of expert advice.
In an increasingly allocation is aligned to that opportunity forward bookings.
Our achievements complex, digitally driven world, these we will be undertaking a strategic in 2017 have positioned us well to products must help clients digest what review of our exhibitions business increase our growth rate in revenue is important to their business and how comprising the Spring and Autumn Fair, and profit in 2018 and the Board is to act on it now and in the future.
Our Bett, CWIEME, Pure, Glee and BVE confident about our prospects for markets move rapidly and in the digital brands which generated 78m of continued success.
age this is only accelerating.
These brands are all task is to continue to configure our number one in their markets and are of Duncan Painter business to keep ahead of this change.
a size and scale that allows us to Chief Executive Officer consider a variety of options to 23 February 2018 A year of accelerated investment in maximise their future value and enhance capabilities to drive our future our overall organic growth rates.
growth rates In 2017, we made investments in capabilities and teams across our business to ensure we can keep ahead of the critical needs of our customers including: expansion of our customer insight teams and digital analysis capabilities: expansion of our digital product creation and development teams: and upgrade of our digital marketing and customer engagement capabilities and our eCommerce teams.
