The Weir Group PLC 08 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Chief Executive Officers Review Delivering sustainable long-term performance Strategic progress People Safety is our number one priority and I am pleased to report excellent progress in the past year.
The Groups total incident rate TIR, our primary measure of safety performance, reduced from 0.66 to 0.53, a 20% improvement.
This has been achieved by a clear commitment from the top of the organisation through the Chief Executives Safety Committee and other initiatives, but more importantly by the widespread adoption of a bottom-up behavioural safety culture that focuses on reducing harm and ensuring our people have a safe start, safe finish and Jon Stanton safe journey home.
There are parts of Chief the Group that consistently achieve zero Executive Officer harm, but we wont be satisfied until that is consistent across all our businesses.
In addition to improving safety, we have also re-invested in our people development programmes.
This was an area where the business cut back during the downturn and it was important to rebuild in order to maintain 2017 saw the Group deliver strong our strong record of execution.
Having leaders who can mentor and develop growth and strategic progress by the potential of their teams is vital.
The quality and passion of our people is a real being proactive and leveraging our differentiator for Weir and ensuring we have a highly skilled and fully engaged leadership positions in increasingly workforce is critical to our future success.
Going forward, safety will continue to be our number one priority.
We have also developed a new people strategy aimed This time last year I set out our new we have a good sense of where we at strengthening our culture and inspiring Weare Weir strategic framework.
want to go as a business and how we our people to reach their potential and Itgave the Group a clear future are going to get there.
That includes build a personal legacy.
It includes directionand articulated the distinctive agreeing new key performance indicators a new approach to strategic workforce competencies People, Customers, to be delivered over the medium term, planning and reviewing the employee Technology, and Performance that starting in 2018.
They are: experience to ensure it aligns with willhelp Weir achieve our vision of our culture and allows us to recruit and beingthe most admired engineering Improved sustainable engagement retain a diverse and vibrant workforce.
and organisational effectiveness Increased market share To help ensure our performance is fully As 2017 progressed, We are Weir gained Improved percentage of revenues aligned to the interests of our investors real traction across the business with from new solutions well introduce an all-employee share teams from all over the world contributing Sustainably higher margins through ownership plan in 2019.
The success of to a vibrant debate about how best to the cycle the Group depends on the efforts of all execute our new strategy and deliver our people and it is right that we give strong returns for all our stakeholders.
These indicators will guide our shortthem a real stake in our future.
You can to medium-term progress and will read further details of our proposed plan That passion and shared sense of require excellent execution of our in our Remuneration Committee report purpose is extremely important and strategy, building on the good from page 95. powerful.
As we look to the future, progress delivered in 2017.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 09 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Customers Our customers are the reason we exist and thrive.
Every Weir colleague should A CEO Town Hall wake up each day thinking how we can meeting in Jiading, do more to help our customers do better.
Traditionally, we have taken a product-led approach, but as part of the We are Weir strategic framework, we are moving to an integrated solutions mindset in which our people spend more time on site, listening to customers operational challenges and then designing a package of solutions to 2016: 27m representing 1.7% of More than 80 VCE projects were help them achieve their goals.
Our next initiated, supported by extensive training generation frac pump, the SPM QEM programmes, and targeted at increasing This approach helps embed Weir 3000, is on trial with a number of the on time delivery and reducing inventory even further into the operations of our larger oilfield services companies, turns.
While overall working capital customers and differentiates us more positioning the Group to benefit from increased during the year as the business clearly from competitors.
In Minerals, it any capital replacement cycle as frac grew quickly, there was progress on helped increase orders ahead of global fleets are upgraded in the future.
mining and sustaining capital spending.
Oil & Gas also outperformed North American The Groups Internet of Things IoT In 2018, we expect that progress to rig count growth, leveraging their key technology, Synertrex, was also accelerate as we see some of the account management programme to build successfully trialled in a number of benefits of our renewed focus on even closer relationships with leading regions, allowing customers to easily operational excellence come through.
Flow Control monitor the performance of their In the longer term, we aim to significantly grew aftermarket orders in tough markets equipment and giving Weir valuable improve working capital performance and reshaped its sales and marketing data to support future innovation.
supporting the Groups ability to invest structure to increase its customer intimacy.
Alongside our established process of We will continue to build even closer product development, the Group has Capital allocation customer relationships in the future, developed a new technology strategy In July, the Group acquired leading building on the competitive advantage that will ensure we continue to lead South East Asian wellhead manufacturer provided by our comprehensive service the change in our markets and build KOP Surface Products for an equivalent network and seeking to continue to take on our legacy of innovative engineering.
enterprise value of US$114m to support early advantage of market trends.
We It includes increasing the digitisation growth of our pressure control offering will also work closely with customers of our solutions and operations, in the eastern hemisphere.
KOPs to jointly develop new technologies integrating advanced manufacturing into technology complements Weirs that help them achieve their objectives our factories, reinforcing our materials existing Oil & Gas portfolio and will and further embed Weir at the heart science leadership and developing ways help accelerate progress in attractive of their operations.
to reduce our customers energy and Middle East and Asian markets.
water consumption: helping underpin You can read more in our divisional the sustainability of our end markets.
2017 markets and business review operational reviews beginning on The Groups financial performance in 2017 page 28. reflects the proactive approach taken by Performance the business to act early and invest in extending our competitive advantages.
Operational excellence has been a Technology This, coupled with rapid improvement traditional strength of the Group and in market conditions in North American The Group delivered revenues of in 2017 we took important steps to oil and gas and increased investment 168m from new solutions in 2017, a reinvigorate our Value Chain Excellence by miners on brownfield assets, 53% increase, as we continued to benefit VCE initiatives across the business.
contributed to a 20% increase in from our commitment to research and Reviews were conducted to assess constant currency orders.
development R&D during the downturns the potential of every business unit that affected both mining and oil and gas to make improvements.
We also made progress towards our aim of investing 2% of revenues in R&D with 2017 expenditure of 40m The Weir Group PLC 10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Chief Executive Officers Review continued Strong order growth As orders grew there were some Outlook for 2018 limited operational issues in the Customers in our main markets are division as a result of plant and expected to increase investment in 2018 2,395m supply chain reconfigurations.
with global mining expenditure expected While these were short-term, they, to increase after a prolonged downturn.
20% alongside the additional investment Investment by exploration and production and some project delays, had an companies in upstream North American Revenues from new products impact on the divisions operating markets is also expected to increase, margin, but it remained within its supported by commodity prices and normal long-term range.
increased efficiencies in the industry.
168m Power, mid and downstream oil 53% Flow Control turned a corner in the and gas markets are showing initial second half of the year after its first indications of improvement.
The performance of the Oil & Gas half performance was impacted by division in particular was excellent.
It tough market conditions in power and To fully benefit from these trends, moved from a 9m operating loss in downstream oil and gas, while the the Group will leverage the four 2016 to an operating profit of 92m in division also recorded a one-off charge distinctive competencies at the 2017.
As the oil price and North American of 13m resulting from legacy contract heart of our strategic framework: rig count recovered through the year, the challenges in its Gabbioneta business.
People, Customers, Technology divisions main manufacturing facility in This resulted in the division recording and Performance.
Fort Worth, Texas, flexed its operations a small operating loss of 3m for the and significantly increased capacity, full year.
As 2017 progressed, there Looking to 2018, assuming market moving from one shift to three.
As a were early signs of recovery in mid conditions remain supportive, we result of previous reductions in fixed and downstream oil and gas markets expect to deliver strong constant costs, the facility delivered excellent while nuclear activity in China and currency revenue and profit growth operating leverage that contributed South Korea continued to progress, and further balance sheet deleveraging.
with the division delivering good growth in its valves aftermarket Minerals delivered double-digit order business.
After a restructuring of growth as it captured opportunities its sales and marketing capability, in global mining markets.
Alongside the division is now clearly focused on its integrated solutions strategy that capturing future growth opportunities.
delivered 67m in revenues, the division invested in additional sales and project Jon Stanton engineers to support future growth, Chief Executive Officer as confidence and quotation activity 28 February 2018 in mining markets increased.
See biographies My Team on page 70.
Team priorities The Group Executive was strengthened in 2017 with the appointment of GeethaDabir as Chief Technology Officer and Rosemary McGinness as Chief People Officer.
Our medium-term key performance indicators are shown below: People Improved sustainable engagement score and increased organisational effectiveness Customers Increased market share Technology Improved percentage of revenues from new solutions Performance Sustainably higher margins throughcycle Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Chief Executive Officers Q&A Building a stronger legacy Rosemary McGinness, to ensure we That is why we have a new technology promote a high-performance culture strategy to take advantage of these and have the capabilities we will need changes.
There are many more issues to succeed in the years ahead.
Well I could highlight, but uniting them all do more work to refine that strategy is the importance of being proactive throughout 2018.
We are also further and agile as a business so that we can integrating sustainability throughout the respond to changes quickly and capture business and well establish baselines opportunities wherever they are.
in the next year in terms of our own performance, in addition to helping our And how does this impact your customers operate more sustainably.
We have some really strong market The Group operates in cyclical positions and we are focused on using Qmarkets, how sustainable are those as a platform to grow in what are current conditions?
Industry expectations are also for a multi-year upturn in the mining capital Take comminution crushing, grinding Jon Stanton cycle supported by anticipated demand and screening, where we increased Chief Executive Officer for commodities like copper as the world capability with the acquisition of invests more in infrastructure and the Trio Engineered Products in 2014.
What are your reflections on move towards electric vehicles.
This allowed us to offer our mining Qyour first full year as Weir CEO?
customers a wider portfolio of The main highlight for me was the In oil and gas weve clearly seen a products while also giving us access adoption of the We are Weir strategy.
structural change with shale oil and to sand and aggregates markets.
Ive spoken to hundreds of our people gas becoming very competitive and in the past year and there has been maturing into a dependable source of Since the acquisition, the Minerals great enthusiasm from across our global energy supply.
North America and division has applied its materials global operations.
This is a Group with the Middle East are the most attractive science knowledge to develop new a strong culture, great optimism and oil and gas markets in the world and crusher technologies and leveraged a clear view of the role we all have to they also happen to be where most of its comprehensive service network to play in building a stronger legacy for our activity in this industry takes place.
globalise the Trio brand in both mining future generations.
So I think we are in the right places, with and sand, and aggregates, markets.
give a sense of the progress, in 2017, Another highlight is the decisiveness comminution revenues for original weshowed in responding to the rapid Finally, conditions in mid and downstream oil equipment increased by a third.
improvement in our core markets.
We and gas and power both served by Flow were aggressive during the downturn Control are showing some green shoots So where there are opportunities and we were determined to be equally of recovery after a prolonged downturn.
to accelerate our strategy through proactive in the upturn.
I think weve disciplined mergers and acquisition done that well, particularly in Oil & Gas, Overall, our markets are increasingly activity, well take them.
where the recovery was steepest.
We attractive and we are well positioned did that while at the same time making to take advantage of those improved good strategic progress that will deliver conditions.
What are the other main trends In terms of improvements, I think we Qyou see impacting the Group still have work to do to optimise our in the future?
2017 was about identifying As a truly global business that serves opportunities and the years ahead will natural resources and energy customers, be about seizing those opportunities to there are many issues we look at.
Firstly, become more efficient and better serve the health of the global economy, which our customers.
improved in 2017 as growth picked up in advanced and emerging economies, How has the Groups strategy driving demand for commodities.
This is a Group with Qdeveloped in the past year?
Weve made good progress in defining a strong culture, great Secondly, tackling climate change is our technology strategy during the year.
clearly a priority and we are investigating optimism and a clear The appointment of our new Chief how we can help customers reduce view of the role we all Technology Officer, Geetha Dabir, theirenergy and water usage as well whose career has been spent in Silicon as reducing our own environmental have to play in building Valley, has brought a new perspective impact.
And thirdly, technology is a stronger legacy for and focus to the business, as we changing rapidly, with big data and increasingly digitise our offering.
advanced manufacturing increasingly also developing a new people strategy important in the markets we serve.
led by our new Chief People Officer,
