STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our strategic progress was recognised Investing for growth in 2017 when Investment Week named Towards the end of the year, we Jupiter Global Group of the Year, based completed the implementation of a on our strong investment performance significant upgrade to our fund across the board and a developing pool management, investment operations and of rising talent, combined with a risk platform.
This will help us to support willingness to tackle industry issues an increasingly diverse set of investment ahead of others.
This award reflects our strategies and underpins our ability to transformation over the past five years grow.
It was also an essential component and our adaptability in changing of our programme of work to be well regulatory environments.
prepared for MiFID II compliance from January 2018.
These important and A successful diversification strategy complicated projects were finished on All regions contributed to our net time.
Continued investment to support inflows in 2017, with the offices in Italy the business is a vital element of our and Spain exceeding our expectations growth strategy and we will continue for the year.
In total, the international to invest in enhancing our systems and distribution platform we have built processes to prepare effectively for new provided 75% of our net inflows in 2017, A STRONG YEAR regulations over the coming years.
without requiring significant additional 2017 was a good year for Jupiter resources in country to deliver that Outlook across all our activities: three-year growth.
The UK also grew in 2017, as I am pleased that Jupiters operating investment performance, net inflows inflows to investment strategies launched model continues to demonstrate and delivery on a number of strategic in recent years more than offset outflows resilience and agility against a projects.
This was delivered within a from our longstanding fund of funds continually challenging and evolving supportive market environment.
The strong growth we have The key measure of our investment experienced is because we put the Fixed income has been a major performance is the percentage of mutual client at the heart of everything we do.
contributor to our AUM growth for fund AUM with abovemedian performance, Our creative responses to delivering several years and it was the largest after all fees, over three years.
This what they want has driven our success.
Fixed increased from 75% in 2016 to 81% in 2017, income AUM now stands at 13.4bn The increase in our AUM in 2017 as our clients continued to benefit from our or 27% of the total for the Group, should translate into a good start for culture of high performance, independent contributing towards our strategic goal the business in 2018.
However, the thinking and accountability.
of diversifying across different product previously announced changes to our I was very pleased with the net inflows types.
There was also meaningful unit trust pricing and our decision to of 5.5bn 2016: 1.0bn, which help to demand for a range of other strategies, bear all the costs of research will result show the success of our diversification including absolute return and global in a profit headwind of around 18m from strategy, with positive inflows across emerging markets.
Our investment performance each quarter.
These inflows, coupled Absolute Return, India and Distribution statistics are at a high, in part due to the with our investment outperformance unit trusts means that 13 of our funds very strong performance of three years and market movements, resulted in a now have assets of more than 1bn, ago.
Maintaining this level is a key 24% increase in our AUM.
This, in turn, together accounting for 36.5bn of challenge in 2018.
We will also continue underpinned our financial performance.
to invest in the business, embedding and optimising our new platform and starting Net revenues totalled 409.5m, up 17% We continue to develop attractive a programme to upgrade systems 2016: 351.4m, including a 19% increase new products.
In 2017, we launched supporting the sales and distribution in net management fees to 392.4m two emerging market debt funds and teams.
The adjusted cost the Emerging & Frontier Income Trust.
income ratio was steady at 55%, which These launches underline Jupiters The resilience of our current operating meant that the revenue growth funded growing expertise and reputation in model and balance sheet strength mean continued investment in our business and emerging markets, which accounts for that, despite the continued disruptions platform as well as increased profitability.
an increasing proportion of our AUM.
and uncertainties that exist around us, Statutory profit before tax rose by 13% We also see alternatives as an exciting we are well placed to continue our growth trajectory and look for new to 192.9m: underlying profit before tax area of growth for Jupiter and we increased from 168.4m in 2016 to launched the Global Levered Absolute areas of opportunity.
193.8m in 2017, representing growth of Return Fund to build on the success of 15%.
Underlying earnings per share were the Absolute Return Fund.
The further ahead, we see real opportunities Group converts a high proportion of to serve more institutional clients who earnings into cash, generating operating seek active outperformance: we will cash flows after tax of 194.6m in 2017 continue to develop our institutional 2016: 147.3m.
This supports our ability capabilities during 2018 and beyond.
MAARTEN SLENDEBROEK to maintain a strong balance sheet Chief Executive Officer position while paying significant dividends to shareholders.
