Chief Executives statement We continue to successfully execute our strategy to grow and diversify the Group, operating on an Open Access basis in partnership with our customers David Warren Interim Group Chief Executive Officer Executing our Strategy MiFID II Opportunities of The Yield Book, FTSE Russell is the most diverse London Stock Exchange Group delivered another The implementation of MiFID II, which took place index business globally in product terms and is strong performance in 2017.
We continue to on 3 January 2018, was a key focus for a number well positioned to seek to benefit from the strong successfully execute our strategy to grow and of our businesses and the transition to the new underlying industry trends, including the demand diversify the Group, operating on an Open Access regulatory regime has in overall terms been very for broader multi-asset capabilities.
As a result, FTSE basis in partnership with our customers.
I would like to thank everyone Russell has further enhanced its position as a leading seen growth across all of our core business pillars involved in the programme, which was a truly global index provider with approximately US$15 Intellectual Property, Risk and Balance sheet collaborative effort across the Group and provides trillion of assets benchmarked to its indexes.
management and Capital Formation and have us with further opportunities to differentiate continued to invest in new initiatives and acquisitions ourselves with our customers.
Indexes are firmly embedded across the investment to drive further expansion and efficiencies.
The Group process and FTSE Russell has the ability to provide is strategically, operationally and financially well Importantly, MiFID II embeds and recognises Open customers with a comprehensive product range and positioned to capitalise on a range of opportunities Access as a key principle in financial markets, and is a deeper data and analytics offering.
Institutional ahead and to enhance shareholder returns.
one we have been operating under for a number of clients remain the core client base for FTSE Russell.
Confidence in our outlook led us to set financial years.
The new rules will introduce greater competition The decisions made by these clients around index targets at an Investor Update event in June, which in financial markets, promoting transparency and selection, investment products and strategies have will deliver growth in Group EBITDA margin to c. 55% innovation while helping to reduce costs and leading a great influence on the entire investment sector, by 2019. to better risk management.
Our Open Access creating a demand for products and services to philosophy positions us well as we have a proven execute the strategies, for example ETFs and As a leading financial markets infrastructure group, track record of operating businesses in partnership structured products, tracking the indexes they use.
we have continued to grow our global footprint, with our customers.
As we stated in our Investor Currently, over US$600 billion of ETF assets under including strengthening our presence in Asia and Update in June, a number of these businesses, management track FTSE Russell indexes.
FTSE in the United States.
We have also made selective such as LCH, CurveGlobal, Turquoise and MTS, are Russell is also well positioned in emerging markets acquisitions that develop our client offering, while already beginning to benefit from the new MiFID II with a strong track record of developing countrymeeting our strict strategic and financial criteria.
environment and we expect that they will be able focused benchmarks.
A number of indexes and This included increasing our majority shareholding to further grow their customer offerings.
partnerships were launched over the year including in LCH, the acquisition of Mergent and the acquisition in Malaysia, China, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia.
of The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices, Intellectual Property which provides opportunities to significantly enhance In our Information Services Business, FTSE Russell The combination of client relationships and product FTSE Russells fixed income analytics and index continued to perform strongly delivering double-digit capabilities also drives innovation, often in business.
These acquisitions also help to expand revenue growth, up by more than 30%.
This is partnership with our customers, in areas such as LSEGs presence in the United States, and our global a consolidating sector where FTSE Russell has environmental, social and governance ESG.
successfully differentiated itself through its global example, FTSE Russell announced that the worlds reach and breadth of offering.
With the acquisition largest pension fund, The Government Pension 6 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Chief Executives statement Investment Fund of Japan GPIF, selected the new Exchange was the largest European exchange with technology offering by bringing several products and FTSE Blossom Japan Index as a core ESG benchmark.
108 IPOs in 2017 and second globally by money businesses together under a new LSEG Technology The index uses FTSE Russells innovative ESG Ratings raised.
The ongoing success of Londons AIM market, brand.
As part of the re-organisation, we divested data model and highlights a growing trend among which saw a near 45% increase in new capital raised, 2 small technology assets as we focus on the key asset owners to integrate ESG considerations into is also being replicated on AIM Italia with 24 new development opportunities ahead.
We have continued to work on the application Also within Information Services, UnaVista, the Groups Our commitment to support growth SME companies of a range of emerging technologies, including platform for all matching, validation and reconciliation was also demonstrated through ELITE, which has distributed ledger technology, cloud-enabled needs, continues to help c. 6,000 clients from around continued to expand globally, with partnerships computing, machine learning and big data.
LSEG the world to meet their regulatory reporting including secured in West Africa, Brazil, China and Saudi takes an active investment approach, where we additional requirements under MiFID II.
We also confirmed the launch of seek to combine the best of our domain expertise the first ELITE Basket Bond, which is made up of in financial markets infrastructure and technology Risk and Balance Sheet Management 10 innovative Italian ELITE companies.
Over 700 with the best of the partner companies we choose In our Post Trade business, LCH Group achieved companies from across 27 countries are now part to work with.
For example, we are collaborating with another strong performance with record volumes of the ELITE community and we expect this number IBM to create a distributed shared registry containing across multiple clearing services in 2017, driven by to continue to grow over the coming year.
a record of all shareholder transactions and helping new business as well as additional flow from existing to open up new opportunities for trading and investing customers.
SwapClear cleared over US$870 trillion of In May, we launched our new International Securities for European SMEs.
notional driven by significant on-boarding of new Market ISM in London, an additional market for the clients across Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
issuance of primary debt targeted at institutional Summary The SwapClear service now has more than 100 and professional investors, with a healthy pipeline LSEG operates in a dynamic global industry and members and over 200 dealers clearing in 55 countries of issuers.
London Stock Exchange also continues there will continue to be both new challenges and and remains the leading OTC rates liquidity pool in the to be at forefront of innovative green finance with opportunities ahead.
LSEG continues to perform world.
Compression volumes also continued to rise, the number of green bonds issued double that of strongly in an evolving macroeconomic, regulatory with over US$600 trillion compressed, up 59% on 2016, the prior year.
and political environment, including Brexit.
With the a further example of how the cycle of trading, clearing UK set to leave the EU in March next year, LSEG has a and compressing is becoming increasingly routine.
CurveGlobal, the new interest rate derivatives responsibility to ensure the orderly functioning of our The OTC clearing services delivered good, double-digit platform, has built a firm foundation since launch markets and to contribute to the financial stability of revenue growth in the year.
reflecting a growing appetite for more capitalthe global economy as a whole.
LSEG currently serves efficient and open alternatives to existing derivatives clients in a number of geographies across the United LCH is well-placed to address capital and margin trading services.
CurveGlobal is proving itself to be a Kingdom, Europe, United States and Asia and, as such, challenges prevailing in the vast FX market, which highly efficient differentiator in the exchange traded we have plans and options for continuing to provide a trades around US$5 trillion a day.
The introduction derivatives space, offering genuine choice and seamless service.
Our partnership approach with our of new bilateral margin rules has been a catalyst for liquidity to the market.
Productive partnerships with customers continues to enable us to understand their members to start centrally clearing with over US$11 inter-dealer brokers and technology providers are needs against a changing regulatory and market trillion in notional cleared through ForexClear in 2017, also helping to increase flow to the platform.
backdrop and to develop our products and services compared to US$3.2 trillion in the previous year.
The Significantly, in the context of Best Execution rules to help our clients with the challenges they face.
search for greater efficiencies is also driving growth under MiFID II, CurveGlobal products listed on LSE in LCHs repo and CDS clearing services, which both Derivatives Market LSEDM continue to be best price In summary, our strategic ambition remains the continued to expand their product offerings.
LCH or tied the majority of the time.
same to deliver best in class capabilities, drive SwapAgent, a new service for the non-cleared global growth and develop our customer partnership derivatives market, processed its first trades and Our pan-European trading platform, Turquoise, is approach.
Our highly capable and experienced also extended the efficiencies and infrastructure working with customers as they adjust their trading management team remains focused on the of clearing to the non-cleared Cross-Currency Basis strategies in response to MiFID II.
Turquoise Plato opportunities ahead, to deliver the financial targets Swap market.
Block Discovery, for example, set new records in we have set for the next 2 years, while at the same 2017 with total value traded in the year up 600% time continuing to invest and expand.
The Group is The Groups post trade services in Italy also recorded to 54.5 billion.
well positioned for further successful development a good performance with Monte Titoli delivering the and growth.
benefits of T2S to its members.
LSEG Technology The main focus of Technology is to underpin and Capital Formation support the development of in-house solutions for our LSEGs range of debt and equity markets provides capital markets, clearing and information businesses.
firms across the globe with access to deep and liquid Our technology, combined with our deep expertise in David Warren pools of capital.
Our markets in London and Italy financial markets infrastructure, enables us to deliver Interim Group Chief Executive helped companies raise over 44 billion in new and market-leading services that put us at the forefront 2 March 2018 further issues welcoming companies such as Pirelli, of new product ideas and innovation.
In 2017, we Allied Irish Bank and Eddie Stobart.
London Stock announced that we would better position our London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 7
