JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Nick Henry, Chief Executive Officer Chief Executives review for making timely decisions in response progressive dividend growth.
In 2017, Group strategy to changes in the market and in the underlying earnings per share grew by The Groups strategy is to grow its competitive environment.
Many of the 7% and the compound rate of growth business organically by leveraging Groups businesses operate in specialist over the last ten years in underlying its existing marine skill base in niches and hold market-leading earnings per share is 10%.
Dividends specialist expertise to a global market, positions in their particular sector.
Their have increased in each of the last 23 supplemented by selective boltgrowth is focused on the less mature years and the compound rate of dividend on acquisitions which broaden the markets around the world with 50% growth over the last ten years is 10%.
Groups range of services, products or 2016: 51% of the Groups revenue geographical coverage.
Our strategic Over the last few years, the Group has derived from customers in the Middle aim is to deliver long-term growth in made a number of acquisitions of marine East, Africa and Asia Pacific regions.
earnings per share and consistently service businesses which have been to increase shareholder value.
Our Key Performance Indicators KPIs are integrated into James Fisher Marine businesses target an operating margin used to measure the success of the Services JFMS to form a substantial of at least 10%, a pre-tax return on business model.
These include revenue offshore and subsea operator for the capital employed of at least 15% and growth, operating margin the ratio of renewables industry.
JFMS provides a are expected to be cash-generative via underlying operating profit to revenue, wide range of services to the offshore careful management of working capital return on capital employed and cash wind and tidal sector to support both and investments.
This year, revenue growth the construction and maintenance was 9% and the underlying operating of this fast-growing industry.
During Whilst the Group prioritises organic margin increased to 11.0% 2016: 10.9%.
2017 this range of services was further growth, our strategy is to supplement it The Groups post-tax return on capital enhanced through the acquisition with value-enhancing acquisitions which employed was 12.2% 2016: 13.0% and of Rotos 360 Limited Rotos 360, a fit into our existing divisions.
James the reduction was due to the working leading provider of blade repair services, Fisher seeks to acquire businesses that capital requirement in relation to the and EDS HV Group Limited EDS, the have a niche product or service offering, contract to build two submarine rescue leading provider of high voltage cable with growth potential, a track record of vessels for the Indian Navy.
The Groups connections and cable repair services.
profitability, cash generation and strong cash conversion, which measures the management.
In March 2017, Rotos 360 was acquired proportion of underlying operating profit for an initial 1.5m in cash, with a that is turned into operating cash, was Business model further potential 5.0m based on future 56% 2016: 103% after adjustment for The Groups businesses provide a range profitability.
The company repairs offshore the investment in working capital for of marine services to large corporations wind farm rotor blades through innovative the submarine rescue project, which is and government bodies through its four use of suspended work platforms and expected to reverse in 2018 when the divisions: Marine Support, Specialist ultra violet resin curing techniques which vessels are scheduled for delivery.
Technical, Offshore Oil and Tankships.
James Fishers businesses are Strategic progress In December 2017, EDS was acquired  with a decentralised The Groups corporate objectives are to for an initial 9.0m with a potential management structure which deliver long-term growth in underlying further 5.6m based on profit targets encourages managers to be responsible earnings per share and to deliver over the next two years.
EDS operates 4 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Nick Henry, Chief Executive Officer HMS Queen Elizabeth Our Tankships business, James Fisher Everard JFE, supported the initial sea trials of the first of a new class of aircraft carrier, the HMS Queen Elizabeth, by providing refuelling services in July and August 2017.
The Ministry of Defence determined that the most suitable port providing the level of security required for its largest-ever warship was the Port of Cromarty Firth, at Invergordon.
Refuelling by road tanker would have been impractical, as it would have required 120 lorries for each fuel stop.
JFE swiftly relocated two tanker vessels, the M. V. Sarnia Cherie and the M. V. Sarnia Liberty, from the south coast of England to Scotland.
Loaded with cargoes of F-76 fuel from the oil fuel depot in Gosport, Hampshire each vessel was weighed down at the stern due to the small, steeply shelving mooring berth at Invergordon and the need to counter the angle.
Sister company Fendercare provided two 250 metre-lengths of 4 hose with associated connectors to maximise the rate of fuel transfer.
Observing strict windows of time when the HMS Queen Elizabeth was available for refuelling, JFE completed two separate fuelling operations safely and efficiently whilst working to a tight and demanding deadline.
This allowed the HMS Queen Elizabeth to fulfil its sea trials and return to its home port of Portsmouth for the commissioning ceremony.
in the high voltage sector providing of over 50 bases around the world, with The business also progressed with two cabling connection services to the a 20-year track record of conducting saturation diving systems for a Chinese offshore wind farms and, in 2017, was a safe and efficient operations.
JFD is a market significant supplier to the Rampion wind commenced operations in the Santos leader in saturation diving and other farm, off the south coast of the UK.
basin, off the coast of Brazil, for two diving equipment and the installation oil majors.
This is a new market with of its specialist diving systems leads JFMS first significant integrated significant potential for further growth.
to future demand for its products and marine services contract to support JFD, our Specialist Technical business for refurbishments or life extension to the construction of the Galloper wind and the worlds leading producer and existing assets.
farm, located 27km off the coast of operator of untethered submarine Suffolk, UK, continued to progress The Groups Tankships division continued rescue systems, made good progress well and the contract, worth in excess its progress and increased earnings on the final engineering, assembly and of 30m, is scheduled to complete in before interest, tax, depreciation by 6% testing of two submarine rescue vessels 2018.
Its earnings which are scheduled to be delivered announced the award of a package of and strong cash flow are utilised in the to the Indian Navy in 2018.
When the services to support the construction of organic and acquisitive growth of the vessels sea trials are completed JFD the East Anglia One wind farm which is other three divisions.
Tankships further will commence a 25-year contract to worth 3.1m, confirming its position as progressed its fleet renewal programme operate the service in India.
Our strategy the leading integrated marine service by agreeing terms to lease and sell the in this niche area continues to be to provider to the offshore renewables Milford Fisher and replace it with a more grow long-term service contracts, having sector.
modern second hand, 4kT vessel during supplied submarine rescue vessels of the first quarter of 2018.
Our Marine Support business, our design.
JFD also operates submarine Fendercare, is the world leader in rescue services for NATO, the Singapore In Offshore Oil, after a slow start to the ship-to-ship transfers from a network Navy and the Royal Australian Navy.
year, the market improvement seen 5 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Chief Executives review continued in the early summer months failed to Asia Pacific and West African regions represents around one third of the continue into the autumn.
This meant but drove overall STS revenue growth division, continued to be challenging that the market remained flat for the year of 16% in the year.
Our fendering and resulted in marginally lower revenue, and the backlog of maintenance work and marine products business also but this was offset by our specialist remains to be addressed.
The Groups produced double digit revenue growth diving and submarine rescue business, competitive position in our various and increased its profitability.
JFD, which increased sales by 6%.
geographic markets remains strong and Revenue at Subtech, which is JFD made good progress in the design, hence Offshore Oil is well-positioned headquartered in Durban, South assembly and testing of two submarine for the upturn in market activity as and Africa, increased by over 50%, having rescue vessels, which are due for delivery when this occurs.
established a presence in the Middle to the Indian Navy during 2018.
The first East and having landed significant vessel was substantially complete at Divisional performance subsea projects in Ghana, Nigeria and the end of 2017 and has subsequently Saudi Arabia to provide diving and cable achieved acceptance testing at our Marine Support 2017 2016 laying services.
Inchinnan site near Glasgow, UK.
Delivery Underlying operating profit m 24.5 21.0 is scheduled for March 2018 and the JFMS successfully continued to provide second vessel is due to be delivered in its wide range of integrated marine Underlying operating margin 10.4% 10.3% November 2018. services to the Galloper wind farm construction project.
Rotos 360 has JFD Australia supplied a Transfer Return on capital 15.5% 13.9% completed over 70 wind turbine blade Under Pressure unit and a hyperbaric employed repairs on ten wind farms since it was equipment suite in support of the acquired in March 2017.
At the Lynn contract to manage submarine rescue Marine Support revenue was 16% and Inner Dowsing offshore wind farm, operations for the Royal Australian Navy.
higher in 2017 at 236.3m 2016: it completed a full turnkey repair project The annual exercise to practice and 203.6m.
After adjusting for the to repair 27 turbines in a contract worth prove established rescue procedures beneficial impact of currency rates, 3.4m.
which took place off the coast of West the increase was 14%.
Underlying Australia, was successfully completed operating profit increased by 17% to Specialist Technical 2017 2016 in November.
On 19 February 2018, the 24.5m due to strong performance at Group acquired Cowan Manufacturing Underlying operating profit m 21.1 19.9 Fendercare, which initiated ship-to-ship Pty Limited, a business based in STS transfer services in Brazil, good New South Wales, Australia, which Underlying operating margin 13.6% 13.1% growth from Subtech in Africa and the designs and manufactures portable Middle East, and further progress in the hyperbaric chambers primarily for the Return on capital 19.7% 27.8% renewables sector.
employed Royal Australian Navy and the wider STS transfer services commenced in international defence market.
Brazil in January 2017 for two oil majors Revenue was 3% ahead of 2016 and JFD also took part in a major and built up to become a significant underlying operating profit 6% ahead international submarine rescue exercise, operation by the end of the year.
The market Dynamic Monarch 2017, which offset a slightly softer market in the for UK nuclear decommissioning, which demonstrated the capabilities of the 6 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Maputo project, Mozambique Subtech, the Groups Durban headquartered marine service company, completed a major quay offset project in the Port of Maputo in Mozambique.
The project, which enabled other infrastructure projects at the port, involved the installation and commissioning of the new fender support structures and new fender spacing systems, within a 19 day shutdown period of the existing quay.
The quay was extended and deepened to enable it to accommodate a fully-laden Panamex vessel.
The first such vessel was successfully berthed three days after the quay was reopened in July 2017.
NATO partner nations France, Norway not maintained into the autumn.
European coastline, maintained high and UK submarine rescue system and vessel utilisation and tight control of Revenue was 2% higher at 56.4m provided training.
Dynamic Monarch, costs and continued its excellent track but after adjusting for the impact of which took place in Turkey, is one of record of carrying out its operations exchange rates, sales were 1% lower.
the largest international submarine to high standards of health and safety.
In the second half of 2017, revenue rescue exercises, which occurs every In July and August, two of its vessels at constant currency was 4% higher three years, and is designed to test supported the sea trials of HMS Queen than the 2016 comparator.
Underlying international forces inter-operability and Elizabeth, the UK Navys largest aircraft operating profit was 0.4m lower in ability to respond to submarines that carrier, by providing refuelling services 2017 at 3.8m 2016: 4.2m but more have become disabled, anywhere in the in Invergordon, Scotland.
The business than two times greater than the first half world.
responded quickly and pragmatically by of the year.
deploying two vessels from the south James Fisher Nuclear JFN, our Our Norwegian business, Scan Tech coast of the UK, to support its customer.
nuclear decommissioning business, AS successfully completed the achieved the design scheme completion lifting package project for the Johan milestone on the Winfrith core Sverdrup field which has contributed reactor decommissioning contract around 5.0m of revenue to date.
On-site RMSpumptools, our artificial lift implementation is scheduled for 2018. company, had a steadily improving order In March, the first drone survey within book over the year and a strong finish Sellafields high security chemical to 2017. separation area was completed, removing the need for scaffolding or Tankships 2017 2016 special access vehicles, saving both Underlying operating profit m 8.2 8.8 time and money.
However the business faced a slower market for new projects Underlying operating margin 15.4% 14.8% in its main UK markets.
Return on capital 34.2% 31.9% Offshore Oil 2017 2016 employed Underlying operating profit m 3.8 4.2 Tankships continued its recent track Underlying operating margin 6.7% 7.6% record of profitability and strong cash generation.
On similar revenue, Return on capital 3.2% 3.5% underlying operating profit was 7% employed ahead of 2016 at 8.8m 2016: 8.2m and cash generation was once again As reported at the half year, Offshore very strong.
Oil had a slow start to the year, but The business, which distributes clean business improved in the summer petroleum products around the northern months.
However, this improvement was 7 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T
