8 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS milestones represent an important step on Chief Executives statement our journey to increased growth.
To enable us to increase share even further on the next generation of aircraft, we have continued to prioritise investment in applied research and technology, focusing on LOOKING those areas where we expect both market demand and our competitive position to be strong.
One such example is research into FORWARD advanced thermal systems for ultra-high bypass engines, where we have secured a UK Government grant of 3.7m to build on our deep capability in aerospace heat exchangers.
We have also prioritised investment in advanced manufacturing technologies such as our Meggitt Modular Modifiable 4 Manufacturing M initiative and investments in additive manufacturing for aerospace applications.
To supplement this focus on technologies where we have strong competitive positions in attractive markets, we announced a series of divestments in 2017, which materially reduced our exposure to non-core industrial markets where the technology requirements, route to market and operational dynamics are very different to our core aerospace business.
In June 2017, we completed the sale of Piher Sensors & Controls, Piezo Technologies and Meggitt Maryland to Amphenol Corporation.
In November 2017, we reached an agreement to sell Thomson Aerospace & Defence to Umbra Cuscinetti which is expected to complete Tony Wood in March 2018, once customary regulatory Chief Executive clearances are received.
In January 2018, we sold Aviation Mobility to Smart Carte.
In aggregate, these businesses generated a total of 54m of revenue during 2017.
Meggitt is a leading provider of smart engineering for Customers extreme environments.
We invest in technologies and We continued to enhance our ability to support our customers with CSS now in its capabilities that enable our customers to develop second full year of operation.
During 2017, aircraft, gas turbines and other complex equipment CSS has secured a number of new contracts to support airlines including Emirates, that has to perform in challenging conditions.
It has broadened partnerships with MRO integrators such as Lufthansa Technik.
And it has secured a series of new distribution agreements with providers such as Aviall and Proponent.
Over the last few years, investment in our portfolio has enabled us to significantly At the same time, we have continued to increase the number and value of Meggitt evolve our organisation, moving more parts on new platforms that will drive growth aftermarket activity into our regional hubs in for decades.
We have focused on: improving 14 the US, UK and Singapore: and enhancing our the service we offer to our customers capabilities in areas such as surplus trading.
First flights enabled by Meggitt including the formation of our Customer To serve our customers better and accelerate technology in 2017 Services and Support CSS organisation: growth, we acquired Elite Aerospace in enhancing our competitiveness, through March 2017 which, when fully integrated into the deployment of the Meggitt Production our aftermarket hub in Miami in 2018, will System MPS : and building a high extend our capability in repair and overhaul performance culture, capable of delivering of heat transfer, pneumatics and hydraulic superior returns for shareholders over the components for commercial and military medium term.
Such progress is critical as we continue Portfolio to focus on protecting and growing our In 2017, Meggitt technologies have played a share of Meggitt spares and repairs whilst critical role in enabling the first flights of new realising the full value of our significant and aircraft such as the Embraer E2, Comac C919 growing installed base, which we have further and Saab Gripen-E: and the entry into service enhanced during the year with a number of of important new platforms including the new OE contract awards.
The most notable Boeing 737MAX and Airbus A321neo.
Having of these is a dual source contract to provide increased our content on these platforms wheels and brakes for the Airbus A321neo.
compared to their predecessors, these Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 9 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION This strategically significant contract for Culture Outlook Meggitt, enables us to further demonstrate In 2017, we launched a culture development The outlook for our civil markets is our capability in the large jet market, after programme which has now been deployed to encouraging despite continued delays the entry into service of the Bombardier over 800 of our leaders, aimed at fostering to some civil aircraft programmes.
In the TM CSeries in 2016 equipped with our Ebrake more effective collaboration and teamwork medium term, production of large jets technology, the industrys second fully electric across the Group and to increase employee is expected to continue to grow and our braking system.
Talent has also been a key increased shipsets on the latest generation of priority during the year, with a number of aircraft supports a positive outlook for civil OE In 2017, we have written off an investment significant new hires during 2017.
In 2018, we expect civil OE to grow of 59.5m following Dassaults cancellation Executive Committee alone, four of our organically by 2 to 4%.
of its Falcon 5X programme due to ongoing twelve most senior executives are in new or problems related to its Silvercrest engine.
expanded roles and a further three are new to Available seat kilometres, an important driver Programme cancellations are a rare event in Meggitt.
of our large jet aftermarket, continue to grow the aerospace industry.
However, Dassault well above the long-term trend of 5% per has announced its intention to develop a This focus on talent and culture, together annum.
This, combined with an improving replacement Falcon with an alternative engine with our other key priorities, will enable us outlook for take-offs and landings of regional and we are hopeful we will retain our position to accelerate the pace of execution which and business jets and our increased share on the successor aircraft.
remains critical to delivering growth and on new generation aircraft, signals that we achieving the medium term targets we have will outgrow the market for civil spares in outlined for margin improvement and cash the medium term.
In 2018, we expect civil Competitiveness generation.
aftermarket revenue to grow organically by In 2017, MPS our global approach to continuous improvement has continued to 3 to 5%.
go from strength to strength.
It was launched Performance in 2013 to create a sustainable quality and In military, a growing defence budget in the Reported revenue increased by 2% to US combined with good positions on the delivery culture that drives competitive 2,027m, with growth from favourable fastest growing and hardest worked aircraft advantage beyond our technical expertise and currency translation offset by divestments enables the Group to deliver a higher rate of platforms, means we are well positioned completed within the year.
Organic growth for growth over the medium term.
In 2018, organic growth over the long term.
of 2% was in line with our expectations, we anticipate organic growth of 3 to 5% in including civil growth of 4%.
Underlying military, underpinned by growth of 4% in In its fifth year, 12 of our 48 sites have earnings per share increased by 1% to 35.3p orders in 2017 book to bill of 1.08. now entered the fourth, or bronze, stage of 2016: 34.8p, while net debt to EBITDA at the MPS where the focus turns to realising the end of the year was 1.9x 2016: 2.1x.
In energy, we expect to see some recovery financial benefits from improved productivity and lower inventories.
In 2017, our focus on after a number of years of declining organic Within civil aerospace, original equipment revenue driven principally by challenging inventory reduction resulted in inventory revenue grew organically by 3%, with market conditions at the Heatric business.
A turns increasing from 2.30 to 2.43 and 16m increased shipset content on large jets of cash being released from working capital.
strong fourth quarter at Heatric, which grew offsetting a decline in regional and business year on year, for the first time since Q1 2014, As we continue to move more of our sites into jets.
Aftermarket revenue increased and beyond the bronze stage over the coming underpins our expectation of a recovery organically by 6%, with strong performance in 2018.
With benign conditions in power years, we expect MPS to make a material in large jets and business aviation offsetting generation and an improving outlook in oil and contribution to the targets we have set for a flat performance in regional jets where margin improvement and cash generation.
gas markets, we expect our energy revenues fide-stocking in the first six months inhibited to grow organically by 0 to 5% in 2018. growth.
During the year, we secured a number On the basis of the above, the Group expects of supply agreements for important Military revenues recovered well in the fourth overall 2 to 4% organic revenue growth in commodities such as electronics, fasteners quarter, after some delays to cash flowing and machining and we have invested in our 2018, and that this growth momentum will from increased budgets in the US during the accelerate over the medium term.
Group purchasing organisation to more first nine months.
Organic revenue growth rapidly deploy these agreements in 2018 to of 1%, reflected good demand for original Having increased margin by 10 basis points in leverage economies of scale, aligned to our equipment, particularly on F-35 offsetting 2017, the Group expects further improvement target of achieving a net 2% reduction in lower demand for spares on platforms purchased costs each year.
driven by the growing momentum in our including Typhoon, F-16 and Apache.
strategic initiatives and is targetting a 10 to 40 We have also taken a number of important basis point improvement in 2018, before the As anticipated, energy revenues continued to impact of IFRS 15.
Under IFRS 15, the Group steps to rationalise our footprint by 20% by decline with revenues in the Heatric business expects a 30 basis point headwind from the 2021.
In November 2017, we commenced lower than in 2016, when it completed the consultation ahead of a proposal to accelerated growth in free of charge OE parts last of its orders to support large capital which would equate to a target for 2018 of consolidate a range of manufacturing, projects in offshore gas applications.
The engineering and support operations into a 17.7% to 18.0% compared to 17.9% in 2017 power generation part of our energy business under IFRS 15. single centre of excellence at Ansty Park in also declined as a result of lower demand for Rugby, UK.
This 130m total investment, industrial gas turbines during the year.
Overall developed in conjunction with partners, will We estimate free of charge shipsets will add energy revenues declined by 8% organically an incremental 60 basis points headwind see a state of the art manufacturing campus during the year.
become operational by late 2019, serving to margin between 2017 and 2021 and have restated our medium term margin target to as a hub for next generation innovation and Underlying operating margin increased reflect this change in accounting.
We now acting as a catalyst for world-class operational by 10 basis points to 19.2%, with the performance.
expect to deliver a margin improvement of financial benefits from strategic initiatives at least 200 basis points by 2021, which is partly offset by headwinds from mix and Moving more work into larger, more consistent with our target to achieve a 200 depreciation & amortisation together with to 250 basis point improvement prior to the capable sites is a key component of our growth in new product introduction costs at adoption of IFRS 15. site rationalisation strategy.
It enables us to Meggitt Polymers & Composites for more eliminate some of the fixed costs required information see page 27. to run individual aerospace sites but also provides better leverage of investment in world class infrastructure that will increase efficiency and improve customer service.
