14 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 2017 was an important year for the JLT Group.
The decisions we took during the year and the strategic developments we have initiated will, I believe, mark the start of a new chapter in the growth of JLT.
Dominic Burke Strong client retention and new Our business in Asia had a good KEY FINANCIAL business drove good performances performance with an 11% increase in HIGHLIGHTS from most divisions, including in revenues to 100.3 million, with 6% JLT made substantial financial Financial Lines, Northern Europe and organic revenue growth.
Revenue progress in 2017, returning to strong Credit & Political Risks.
This achievement performance was driven by our core organic revenue growth.
was delivered despite challenging market specialties, particularly Financial Lines conditions, particularly in the Energy and Construction.
JLT achieved total revenues of and Marine sectors.
1,386 million in 2017, an increase of Our Latin American operations grew 10% over 2016.
This included strong We made investments in 2017 to revenues by 31% to 93.3 million, organic revenue growth of 5%, in line strengthen our presence in continental with 19% organic revenue growth.
Europe, including the acquisition of Trading profit increased by 24% to Belgibo, the Belgian specialty broker, 26.1 million, a 17% increase at CRE.
Our underlying profit before tax in August.
These investments for growth We have been making significant increased by 11% to 191.5 million, also support our Brexit planning, enabling investments in building our Specialty or by 8% at constant rates of JLT to manage the consequences of capabilities across Latin America and exchange CRE.
The trading margin different Brexit scenarios.
these results demonstrate the success was maintained at 15.4%.
Outside of Europe, we also delivered strong growth in our international The US Specialty business continued RISK & INSURANCE Specialty businesses, which achieved to make good progress in the year, Our global Risk & Insurance businesses revenues of 449.4 million, a headline delivering revenue approaching grew revenues to 1,066 million, increase of 21% with organic revenue USD 100 million.
Net investment losses an increase of 11%, with organic growth of 8%.
The combined trading reduced from 27 million to 16 million, revenue growth of 5%.
Trading profit margin in the international Specialty delivering on our previous guidance rose substantially, increasing from businesses increased from 12% to 14%.
that these losses reached the 'high- 166.6 million to 197.9 million and water' mark at the end of 2016. contributing to a 2% increase in trading JLT's Australia and New Zealand The US business is now firmly margin to 19%.
businesses grew revenues by 7% established with 335 employees in to 125.7 million.
We anticipate that 17 locations and an increasing market JLT Europe delivered total revenues of earnings from a number of important presence, now representing 5% of the 399.3 million in 2017.
After adjusting client wins will help these businesses Fortune 500. for the disposal of Thistle at the end of return to organic revenue growth in 2018.
2016, this represented revenue growth of 7%, or 4% growth on an organic revenue basis.
Trading profit in JLT Europe increased by 9% to 90.6 million and the trading margin increased from 22% to 23% on an adjusted basis.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 15 JLT Re, our global reinsurance broking business, increased In Brazil, corporate payrolls fell as the economy remained revenues by 11% to 217.1 million, reflecting organic revenue weak, leading to slower headline revenue growth and a growth of 4%.
This performance was delivered despite a year on year reduction in trading profit in the region.
continued decline in pricing across most lines of reinsurance However, Latin America EB has been successful in winning and in most geographies during the year.
This was underlined significant volumes of new business and we look forward to by the 1 January 2017 renewals, which saw risk-adjusted global growth rates returning to former levels in this business as property-catastrophe pricing reduce by almost 6%.
economies in the region recover.
JLT Res trading profit increased by 5% to 42.4 million.
Details of the performance of each individual business are set The trading margin was 20% in the year, reflecting JLT Res out in the Review of Operations on pages 27 to 34. continued investment in market leading talent across all of its geographies, increasing headcount by approximately 10% A YEAR OF PROGRESS AND year on year.
Organic revenue growth in Europe and North America was offset in part by Asia Pacific, where we saw STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT significant headwinds from the rating environment combined 2017 was an important year for the JLT Group.
The decisions with reductions in facultative buying activity.
we took during the year and the strategic developments we have initiated will, I believe, mark the start of a new chapter in the growth of JLT.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS JLT's global Employee Benefits EB operations delivered The Groups acquisition of TW Re in late 2013, followed by the overall revenue growth of 7%, with 4% organic revenue growth.
establishment of JLTs US Specialty business in 2014, has given Within the global total, the UK EB business achieved particularly JLT a firm foundation in the US.
That increase in scope and strong organic revenue growth of 8%, which was offset by opportunity provided the context for the Group's re-examination some weakness in regions of the international EB business.
The process confirmed that: JLTs deep specialist strength is a key differentiator between JLTs UK and Ireland EB business grew revenues by 7% to JLT and its larger competitors: and 172.0 million, reflecting impressive organic revenue growth of 8%.
Trading profit increased by 40% to 17.2 million.
representation in the US now gives JLT the opportunity to move from an international to a global business across each Trading margins in the UK and Ireland EB business increased of Reinsurance, Specialty and Employee Benefits.
We now expect to achieve our 15% trading margin target for this business in 2019, rather than in 2018, JLT re-articulated its mission, To become the leading global with the benefit of the Global Transformation Programme specialist risk adviser and broker', and the Group is now taking described below.
The Group anticipates that the business will a number of important steps towards its strategic objectives.
make further progress in 2018 towards this target, with the majority of the progress being made in 2019. BUSINESS AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE JLT's international Employee Benefits businesses achieved We are making a number of structural changes to the mixed headline results, although there was improving businesses and management of JLT.
Collaboration has momentum and some good performances within always been a key part of the JLT culture.
becoming truly global requires us to graduate from informal, ad hoc collaboration to consistent and systematically In Asia, Private Client Services PCS, our life assurance coordinated working.
broker, had a difficult first half to the year.
However, this was followed by a positive performance in the second half of the As announced in January 2018, Lucy Clarke has been year.
The business is now expanding into new geographies, appointed to the new role of Global CEO of the Group's including mainland China.
Specialty business with effect from 1 April.
Bringing JLT's regional insurance broking operations together into an In Australia, structural changes in the workers compensation integrated Specialty division, with leaders appointed in each market resulted in a slower rate of revenue growth.
However, of its principal industry specialty businesses Energy, we are anticipating a better performance in 2018, building on Construction, Financial Lines, Aerospace, Marine & Cargo the trading profit growth in 2017. and Credit & Political Risks, responsible for globally coordinated sales and delivery to clients, will enable JLT to operate as a combined group of global specialists.
16 STRATEGIC REPORT An integrated global management structure is already operating JLT SPECIALTY USA BUILDING A BUSINESS effectively and delivering value in JLTs Reinsurance division.
OF SCALE The Group is confident that JLT will realise the same benefits The objective of building a US Specialty business that in Global Specialty, and that its Specialty businesses will see contributes to the Group on a scale that better reflects the accelerated growth, operating on a global basis.
importance of the US to the global economy is at the heart of the Groups medium term strategy.
Employee Benefits will also operate as a worldwide business.
UK & Ireland and International Employee Benefits, including In addition to revenues and profits generated in and from the PCS, will be the third of JLT's three business divisions.
US, the Group believes that a strong US business will create further opportunities for growth in other parts of the world.
From 1 April 2018, the Groups businesses will therefore be structured into three divisions, Reinsurance, Specialty and We therefore intend to build on the firm foundation that JLT Employee Benefits, and the same structure will be adopted has already established in the US through continuing organic when reporting the Groups future results.
revenue growth, complemented by targeted acquisitions.
This began with the purchase of a controlling interest in the GLOBAL TRANSFORMATION PROGRAMME construction specialist, Construction Risk Partners, in January 2017 which has proven to be highly successful, delivering a TRANSFORMING OUR OPERATIONAL CAPABILITIES continuing stream of domestic wins and increasing coordination For some time JLT has been investigating how we can throughout the Group to win and service international streamline the operational processes used to serve clients in construction clients.
each of our divisions, to deliver global consistency and eliminate duplicated costs.
In 2017, the US Specialty business represented 5% of the Groups revenues.
That proportion is expected to grow in the The Group will be implementing a two-year plus Group-wide next few years.
Following a move into profitability in 2019, Global Transformation Programme.
From 2020, JLT expects we anticipate that trading margins in the US Specialty business to use a consistent set of processes and core operating will move broadly into line with those in JLTs other major global platforms for the delivery of each of Reinsurance, Specialty Specialty businesses in the medium term.
The benefits will be significant in terms of seamless global EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - ESTABLISHING A service and delivery: communications internally and externally COORDINATED GLOBAL BUSINESS to clients: and data collection and analysis.
The Group is confident about the momentum throughout In financial terms, the Group expects the programme to deliver the Employee Benefits busnesses going into 2018, and the annualised savings of 40 million by 2020 for a one-off cost prospects for the divisions revenue and profit growth.
Further financial details can be found in the In UK EB, the largest business, we anticipate further strong Finance Directors Review on page 38. growth in both revenue and trading margin as we see a return Operating on a consistent basis across all of JLTs global on the investments made in recent years.
businesses will achieve significant, tangible benefits: The UK EB business has a strong position in the occupational a better client experience, improved cost efficiency and pension scheme market.
It is also making appropriate stronger controls.
investments for the future so as to generate new business from todays employees.
These investments are in the new world areas of retirement savings, occupational health insurance, employee wellness, workplace marketing and flexible benefits made available by employers to their workforces, as well as serving the growing needs of workers in the gig economy'.
JLT now operates Employee Benefits across the Group and through its international network, and we have begun work to coordinate the presentation and marketing of our Employee Benefits activities worldwide.
During 2017, we took advantage of JLT's international coverage to launch a coordinated global Employee Benefits offering, sold, managed and delivered by a single global team.
The initial response from clients confirms that JLT can grow revenues in the international employee benefits market.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 17 LOOKING FORWARD After five consecutive years of falling reinsurance rates, global property catastrophe rates have experienced some upward pressure but with significant variances across regions driven in large part by the losses experienced following hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria.
Across most lines and most classes of reinsurance and specialty, the trend of steady price reductions through a number of years seems to have moderated or ended.
However, a consistent pattern is not evident and it would be premature to refer to a hardening market.
In todays market each risk needs the broker to demonstrate real understanding of the risk and real transactional expertise to secure appropriate cover on the optimum terms for the client.
This is the specialist capability that JLT has built over the past decade and the Group is confident that JLT is well placed to grow and execute on its strategy.
JLT has entered 2018 with real momentum but we do not expect a consistently hard insurance market.
While the Group is positive with regards to the factors within its control, volatile currency markets present a risk.
Therefore, taken together, JLT enters 2018 looking forward to continuing strong organic revenue growth and further financial progress.
Dominic Burke Group Chief Executive 28 February 2018
