Mondi Group 18 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Chief Executive Officers letter Our passion for performance 2017 was a milestone year for Mondi th marking the 50 anniversary of the Group, as well as 10 years listed on the Johannesburg and London Stock Exchanges.
W e combine our passion for performance with sustainable competitive advantages in innovation, service and cost to deliver value accretive growth.
Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 19 My predecessor David Hathorn, whom Since 2008, we have invested around I am delighted that we have extended our I worked with for 25 years, handed over 1.7 billion in acquisitions.
We are pleased global Partnership with WWF by another the reins to me in May 2017.
I am grateful to have signed an agreement to acquire three years to 2020, focusing on our to lead an organisation with a successful Powerflute, an integrated semi-chemical stewardship of forests, climate & energy strategy, a consistent track record of fluting mill in Kuopio Finland and I look and freshwater.
delivery, a strong balance sheet, and a forward to welcoming the team to Mondi.
As a producer of both paper and plasticgreat team of around 26,300 people with a We have evaluated a number of acquisition based packaging, we are in a strong passion for performance.
A solid foundation opportunities, but high valuations caused position to support the transition to a from which to drive our ambitions for the us to step back and be patient.
We seek more circular economy, developing more next decade of value accretive growth.
to acquire rough diamonds from which sustainable plastic-based packaging I would like to thank all Mondi employees we can generate long-term value accretion solutions and recognising the important for their high level of engagement in 2017. through exposure to our operational roles plastic and paper packaging play excellence programme.
in addressing global challenges such as The world around us in 2017 food waste.
Our industry-leading businesses In 2017 we saw good global economic a core strength growth, estimated at 3.2%, which is Our people Underpinning our growth is our network of expected to continue into 2018 despite The safety of our people is at the heart more than 100 plants and mills across four ongoing economic and political uncertainty.
We have made continents that represent, what we believe Packaging trends and growth in our key important progress in the last few years is, an industry-leading portfolio.
Our focus European markets led to strong demand to ensure our safety processes are on businesses with sustainable competitive and positive pricing fundamentals world-class.
However, processes are only advantages in innovation, service and cost across the majority of segments in which effective when followed and our journey to leadership is unparalleled in the industry.
zero harm will only progress with a safety Developing superior businesses to maintain Mondi continues to be well-positioned mindset where each one of our employees, and enhance our competitiveness is a to leverage key global industry trends contractors and suppliers habitually core strength, providing both a strong in sustainability, e-commerce and practise safety in everything they do.
platform for future growth and resilience in convenience.
Geographically we are Tragically we had two fatalities and three a downturn.
ideally placed for opportunities in Europe incidents resulting in life-altering injuries in Overall, manufacturing in Europe has seen and North America, which account for 2017, and a further employee is missing, a material decline since the turn of the around half the global packaging market.
My heart goes out to century and currently represents around We have established a leading position the families and friends of all those affected.
15% of total EU value add and employment, in the faster growing central and eastern I am determined that this will not be even though it accounts for around 80% European markets as well as exposure to repeated in 2018 and my leadership team of total EU exports and more than 60% of growing markets in Africa and Asia as their continues to actively drive a culture that R&D investment.
I have spent my career in demands increase.
puts safety first across all our production manufacturing and as CEO, I intend to take sites and offices.
Strategic focus an active role in promoting the importance Diversity in all its forms is also a topic that of a strong, well-supported manufacturing We took the opportunity in October to requires leadership attention.
History and footprint to Europes economic future.
share detail on our strategy at our Capital traditions in the packaging and paper Markets Day.
Our long-term strategic industry have not been the ideal foundation Growing responsibly commitment to value accretive growth has for gender equality in particular.
We have We continue to make progress on our served us well and I intend to maintain this made important progress in diversity in sustainable development commitments to focus while CEO.
recent years, but we are not where we want 2020.
Since 2004, when we defined our to be.
As with safety, permanent change We have a strong capital expenditure CO e emission reduction targets for the first 2 comes from the right mindset, starting with project pipeline.
Over the last four years, time, we have reduced our specific CO e 2 leadership, so progress in diversity and our major capital expenditure projects emissions by 38% and boosted the fuel inclusiveness will also be a personal goal have contributed around 175 million of consumption of our mills from biomassduring my tenure as CEO.
incremental operating profit, including based renewable sources to 65%.
25 million in 2017, and we expect to Peter Oswald The worlds forests are the lungs of the generate a further 15 million in 2018.
Chief Executive Officer earth, and critical for livelihoods and Our major projects in the Czech Republic, ecosystems.
So Mondi has an important Slovakia and Russia will increase our stewardship role for the 2.4 million current saleable pulp and paper production hectares of forest we lease, own and by around 9% when in full operation.
This, manage in Russia and South Africa, and together with many smaller investments for procuring wood from responsible, in Consumer Packaging and Corrugated sustainable sources.
Packaging, is expected to contribute to our earnings from 2019.
