Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 13 Chief Executives review Group strategic Our 18 19 framework markets Introduction BAE Systems delivered a good performance in2017, consistent with our expectations for the year.
We are taking the actions necessary to address costs and to meet our customers affordability challenges.
Despite economic andpolitical uncertainties, governments in ourmajor markets continue to prioritise defence and security, with strong demand forour capabilities.
We are investing in our business, our people, and in the technology and skills we need to drive the business forward.
With an improving outlook for defence budgets in a number of our markets and a solid foundation for medium-term growth, we are well placed to generate goodreturns for shareholders.
Since taking on the role of Chief Executive, Ihave reiterated that we are a strong company, with a number of key advantages, pursuing the right strategy.
We have a broad geographic footprint and diversified market positions.
Importantly, ourtrack record of successful partnerships in BAE Systems delivered a international markets to develop local industry, employment and skills is now becoming a key requirement to do business in those markets.
good performance in 2017, We have world-class technologies in the fields of electronic warfare, autonomous systems, advanced manufacturing, robotics and data consistent with our analytics, and we continue to invest in research and development, often alongside our customers, to identify and develop expectations for theyear.
The speed of change in technology means that we must continually Charles Woodburn Chief Executive build on our technological advantage, and attract and retain the right talent in order tostay competitive.
It is important to recognise that in a tough, competitive market, we need to become a stronger, smarter and sharper organisation towin new business and grow, which means increasing our focus and efforts in three priority areas: Operational excellence We have a number of major programmes under way on which we are ramping up production, so it is vital that we maintain ourfocus on operational excellence by delivering for our customers.
There is simply no better way to highlight our skills and capabilities and, therefore, win new business.
BAE Systems 14 Annual Report 2017 Chief Executives review continued Competitiveness UK Our US electronics business delivered good Good progress has been made in making Defence and security remains a priority for operational performance across our core theorganisation more efficient over the theUK government.
We expect this to be franchise positions in the high-technology lastfew years, and there are further reaffirmed in the National Security Capability areas of electronic warfare, precision-guided opportunities with procurement and Review, and in the Modernising Defence munitions, Intelligence, Surveillance and enhanced collaboration at the forefront.
Programme, which was announced in Reconnaissance, and electro-optics.
Technological innovation BAE Systems has sustained its leadership We have a long heritage of developing Transition arrangements after March 2019 position in the US electronic warfare market andintegrating cutting-edge technologies willbe important to enable companies to and production is ramping up to execute orders tocreate complex systems that give our prepare for potential changes in the regulatory across a numberof programmes, some of customers a capability advantage.
As there is relatively limited which are classified.
As the electronic warfare accelerating pace of technological change UK-EU trading and movement of EU nationals system supplier on the F-35 Lightning II isadisruptive force and a key driver of into and out of BAE Systems UK businesses, combat aircraft programme, we are increasing competitive advantage and, increasingly, the resulting Brexit impact on the business is production and are well positioned to meet adeterminant for our customers in likely to be limited, depending on the terms further increases in output rates over the awardingnew business.
ofany transition and final agreements for coming years to meet the requirements theUKs future relationship with the ofboth US and international customers.
Driving performance in these three areas EuropeanUnion.
OnF-15, upgrade programmes are contracted willbe key for the development of the and progressing for the US Air Force and business as we execute on our strategy We will support the government in achieving international customers.
its aim to ensure that the UK maintains its key role in European security and defence The Groups US-based combat vehicles 2017 performance post-Brexit, and to strengthen bilateral business is underpinned by programmes for US relationships with key partners in Europe.
This the manufacture of Armored Multi-Purpose After seven months under a Continuing will be important for ongoing collaboration in Vehicles and M109A7 self-propelled Resolution that maintained funding at the the development of defence capabilities.
howitzers, and Bradley upgrades which all prior years level, the fiscal year 2017 defence progressed in the year.
In the amphibious In December, BAE Systems and the budget ultimately rose by approximately vehicle market, 16 prototypes have been Government of Qatar entered into a contract, 4%.
Similarly, fiscal year 2018 has begun delivered to the US Marine Corps under the valued at approximately 5bn, for the supply under multiple Continuing Resolutions.
Alongside supplying On9February 2018, Congress passed, and We are one of two competitors for this the aircraft, the agreement provides for the the President signed, a budget agreement programme, with final down-selection supply of ground support to the Qatar that supports the medium-term planning expected in2018.
ArmedForces and delivery of technical and assumptions for our US businesses.
This BAE Systems is a leading supplier of ship pilot training in Qatar.
The contract is subject budget agreement increases the budget repairservices to the US Navy and continues to financing conditions and receipt bythe capsfor two years, and extends the current to adjust its workforce and facilities to meet Group of first payment which areexpected Continuing Resolution to 23 March 2018 evolving demand.
Additional dry dock capacity tobe fulfilled no later than mid-2018.
toallow lawmakers to pass a fiscal year at our San Diego shipyard became operational 2018omnibus appropriations bill.
Discussions with current and prospective in February 2017 and accepted its first ship operators of the Typhoon aircraft continue We see continued support for increased during the year.
tosupport the Groups expectations for defence spending in the Presidents Whilst market conditions remain highly additional Typhoon contract awards.
However, recently-released fiscal year 2019 budget competitive and continue to evolve, our there can be no certainty asto the timing of request.
Thisrequest maintains positive US-based Intelligence & Security business these orders.
momentum infunding for military readiness isfocused on delivering on its contracts and modernisation, and provides greater As a result of reducing production activity andmaintaining a high level of bid activity.
Our US-based portfolio onTyphoon and Hawk, and also taking into remains well aligned with customer account the changes to support requirements prioritiesand growth areas, such as the as the Royal Air Force transitions from Tornado ramp-up of production on a number of to F-35 Lightning II, the business announced ourlong-term programmes.
inOctober a total proposed headcount reduction of up to 1,400 roles over the nextthree years.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 15 The Typhoon aircrafts progression towards theRoyal Air Force Centurion standard will enable transition of capability from Tornado toTyphoon as the UK Tornado fleet is scheduled to come out of service at the endofthe decade.
UK-based production of rear fuselage assemblies for the F-35 Lightning II aircraft increased to 82 in the year, with most of the advanced manufacturing investment in place to achieve the planned increase in production volumes.
In readiness for the arrival of the UKs first F-35 Lightning II aircraft in 2018, good progress has been made on the support facilities for the stand-up of the operational service at RAF Marham in Norfolk.
In the maritime domain, there remains pressure on the Navys near-term budgets.
Our strategy in action On the aircraft carrier programme, HMS Queen In August, our Intelligence & Security Elizabeth successfully concluded initial sea iMOTR, a new business launched a new product, iMOTR.
trials and entered HM Naval Base, Portsmouth, This innovative, mobile, multiple-object for the first time in August, with operational product designed tracking radar usescommercial off-the-shelf handover to the Royal Navy in December.
solutions to providemilitary test and to improve radar evaluation ranges with a higher degree of Following contract award for the first batch accuracy in tracking the time, space and ofthree Type 26 frigates, worth 3.7bn, accuracy position information forseveral objects in production for the first ship, Glasgow, flight compared with current radars.
The National Shipbuilding Strategy announced in September committed The iMOTR solution, developed over to all eight Type 26 frigates to be built in our twoyears with Group-funded research Scottish manufacturing facilities.
In October, anddevelopment expenditure, features we announced a teaming agreement with enhanced capabilities that offer more precise Cammell Laird for their bid for the UK Ministry flight path tracking for objects travelling of Defences proposed Type 31e general close to the ground and allow tracking purpose frigate programme.
information to be shared in real time with other radars or data collection sensors.
Submarine activity is increasing with the These added capabilities will allow our Astute and Dreadnought class submarines customers to assess larger, more complex now both in production and major scenarios thatare critical to developing the redevelopment of the Barrow site todeliver next generation of solutions to address the Dreadnought programme underway.
Group strategic More online 18 framework baesystems.
com BAE Systems 16 Annual Report 2017 Chief Executives review continued International The Saudi Arabian In-Kingdom Industrial Participation programme continues to make good progress and we have commenced discussions with thenew Saudi Arabian Military Industries SAMI organisation to explore how we can collaborate to deliver further In-Kingdom Industrial Participation.
Allof these activities are aligned with our long-term industrialisation strategy, as well asthe Saudi Arabian governments National Transformation Planand Vision 2030.
On the Salam Typhoon programme, all contracted 72 aircraft have now been delivered and the Typhoon support contracts are operating well, exceeding the baseline flying programme contracted with the customer.
Discussions with the Saudi Arabian customer Our strategy in action through 2017 resulted in contractual In 2017, we demonstrated our military aircraft agreements under the Saudi British Defence Advanced manufacturing expertise as we achieved a Co-operation Programme being formalised.
significant milestone on the F-35 Lightning II These provide support services to the Royal manufacturing programme.
With the delivery of the 318th Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces rear section of the aircraft during the year, for a further five years to 31 December 2021. facilities for 10% of the projected global customer aircraft In Australia, the business is underpinned by requirement has now been produced.
The long-term support contracts, whilst activity F-35Lightning II achievement of this milestone has only been progresses on two major bid opportunities.
possible through investments made in our advanced manufacturing facilities and our Firstly, as one of two tenderers for the close working relationship with the supply Land400 Phase 2 Combat Reconnaissance chain.
Our focus in these areas will enable Vehicle programme, we have completed usto meet the ramp-up in production on theRisk Mitigation Activity contract and the programme in the coming years.
submitted our final proposal, with final preferred tender selection anticipated in As a key partner on F-35 Lightning II, thefirst half of 2018. apremier defence programme, we are responsible for approximately 15% of the Secondly, our initial tender response for work on each aircraft, excluding propulsion, theCommonwealths nine-ship SEA 5000 and we play a major role in the programme FutureFrigate programme was submitted across multiple markets, including the US, inAugust and we anticipate a preferred UK and Australia.
The MBDA joint venture has continued Group strategic More online 18 towinorders in both domestic and export framework baesystems.
The increase in business volumes hasresulted in the requirement to expand production capacities in the UK and France.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 17 Pension schemes Recruiting and retaining talented people Cyber security isakey priority.
Wewant every employee Applied Intelligence achieved sales growth The 2017 UK triennial pension funding toreach their full potential within a diverse from the continued delivery of national valuations concluded in November, with the and inclusive work environment.
We have security solutions for the UK and international aggregate funding deficit as at 31 March 2017 programmes in place across the business to governments.
In addition, we have deployed across the UK schemes at 2.1bn.
The deficit support strategic workforce planning, career anti-fraud, regulatory compliance, and cyber recovery plan on the Groups largest pension development andretention, as well as to security products and services across a large scheme, the BAE Systems Pension Scheme, improve diversity andinclusion.
continues to March 2026, with the other schemes now with reduced repayment In 2017, Applied Intelligence reported an Organisational changes periods or fully funded.
underlying loss of 61m, including a 24m In October, we announced a restructure of restructuring charge.
The first half loss of The UK funding deficit at 31 March 2017 is ouroperations outside of the US-managed 27m was followed by a reduced second some 3bn lower than the accounting deficit, business in support of our three priorities halfloss, before the restructuring charge, using like-for-like mortality assumptions and ofdelivering operational excellence, honing of10m as cost reduction actions started asset values at 31 December 2017, largely due our competitive edge and accelerating our todeliver bottom-line benefit.
A goodwill to lower liabilities as a result of the discount technology innovation.
The new operating impairment of 384m was taken in 2017 rate assumption based on the expected returns model, effective 1 January 2018, will simplify reflecting the future level and timing of on the investments held by the schemes.
our management structure to create expected returns from the business.
strengthened Air and Maritime reporting Research and technology segments, whilst changes to our UK-based Effective 1 January 2018, the business BAE Systems has developed some of the Applied Intelligence cyber security business changed its operating model to deliver a worlds most innovative technologies and arefocused on meeting customer needs and moretargeted portfolio of products and invests in research and development to accelerating improvements in competitiveness services focused on customers within three generate future products and capabilities.
core business units: Government: Financial Weembrace disruptive technology, drive Services: and Technology & Commercial.
Our 2017 results are re-presented on page innovation and invest appropriately both Therestructuring will enable a greater 56to reflect the organisational changes and onaself-funded basis and in conjunction focusoncustomer needs and higher levels our segmental guidance for 2018 is presented withour customers, universities, and small ofoperational efficiency, in the commercial on page 57 on a consistent basis.
Companybusiness, that will accelerate improvements 58and 59, we summarise the shortto funded research and development contributes, incompetitiveness and profitability.
medium-term prospects for our five principal along with customer funding, in driving reporting segments from 1 January 2018. focused investment in areas such as defence Balance sheet and capital allocation and commercial electronics, military aircraft, The Groups balance sheet is managed Summary precision weapons and cyber security.
conservatively, in line with its policy, to retain Our business benefits from a large order itsinvestment grade credit rating and to Responsible business backlog, strong franchises and established ensure operating flexibility.
Consistent with positions on long-term programmes in the We continue to build a culture where our this approach, the Group expects to continue US, UK, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
Our people are empowered to make the right to meet its pension obligations, invest in strategy is clear and well defined, with decisions and know where to go to seek research and technology and other organic governments in our major markets continuing helpor guidance.
During 2017, we rolled investment opportunities, and plans to to prioritise defence and security, with strong outfurther ethics training across the Group paydividends in line with its policy of demand for our capabilities.
Through tosupport employees and, in January 2018, long-term sustainable cover of around execution of a consistent strategy, we are well launched our revised Code of Conduct.
twotimes underlying earnings and to make placed tomaximise opportunities, deal with The safety of our employees, and anybody accelerated returns of capital to shareholders the challenges and continue to generate good who works on, or visits, our sites, remains when the balance sheet allows.
Our safety culture and our invalue-enhancing acquisitions will be employees demand high standards for all considered where market conditions are aspects of health and safety.
In 2017, there rightand where they deliver on the was a 3% reduction in the Recordable Accident Groupsstrategy.
Rate and a 28% reduction in the total number of major injuries recorded as we continued to Charles Woodburn Chief Executive focus on reducing risk and embedding safety culture to drive improvement.
