Strategic Report Chief Executives Review Executing our STRATEGY Adjusted operating profit increased 11% to 223.5 million Results overview and reported operating profit was 182.4 million compared Reported sales increased by 13% to 1,525.6 million 2016: to 38.3 million recorded in 2016 which included a non-cash 1,345.8 million which reflected a 6% increase on an organic, impairment charge of 115.3 million.
On a LFL basis, adjusted 1 constant currency like-for-like, LFL basis.
During the year, we operating profit increased 8%, primarily reflecting the effect of the continued to make good strategic progress towards broadening higher sales volumes and a turnaround in performance at Omega, our portfolio, adding further to our software and services offerings.
partly offset by adverse product mix and overhead cost increases, As customers increasingly require an integrated solution, we are reflecting increased headcount, wage inflation and the cost to strategically positioning Spectris to align with their needs and this achieve our strategic growth initiatives.
LFL overheads will continue is transforming our business.
to increase in 2018 at a similar rate to that in 2017, reflecting inflationary pressures together with the annualisation of the costs 2017 operational performance of our strategic initiatives which commenced in 2017.
An improving demand backdrop in some of the key industries we Adjusted operating profit includes costs of 15.8 million in relation serve has been an important factor behind the 6% increase in LFL to Project Uplift.
Excluding these costs, adjusted operating margins sales which, combined with 2% net growth from acquisitions and were 15.7%, 0.5pp higher than in 2016 LFL 1.1pp.
Reported disposals and a beneficial impact of 5% from foreign currency operating profit included a number of one-off costs and income exchange movements, produced a 13% increase in reported sales.
during the year resulting in a net overheads year-on-year benefit LFL sales increased across all four segments and key regions.
In Materials Analysis, a recovery in metals, minerals and mining plus The Groups adjusted operating cash conversion was in line with good growth in pharma and semiconductor saw LFL sales increase our expectations with 75% 2016: 113% of adjusted operating 7% whilst automotive was the key sector driving the growth in profit being converted into cash.
This was lower than usual due Test and Measurement.
Sales to academic research in both these to increased capital expenditure for the capacity expansion segments were lower year-on-year.
For In-line Instrumentation, programme at Millbrook, resulting in an overall Group capital the recovery of capital spending in energy and utilities and process expenditure of 73.1 million.
After allowing for the proceeds from industries led to higher LFL sales whilst Industrial Controls benefited the divestment of Microscan, net debt stood at 50.5 million at from an improved performance at Omega as well as an ongoing the year end, around 0.2 times the full-year adjusted EBITDA.
recovery in North American industrial spending.
On a regional basis, LFL sales to North America increased by 4%, with the second half performance stronger than the first half.
In Asia, LFL sales continued to grow strongly up 9%, helped particularly by China which grew 11%, along with Japan and India.
In Europe, LFL sales rose 6%, with a strong second half contribution from the UK while sales to Germany grew strongly in the first half.
Sales to the Rest of the world were up 1%.
Adjusted performance measures APMs are used consistently throughout this Report and are referred to as adjusted, constant exchange rate or like-for-like LFL.
These are defined in full and reconciled to the reported statutory measures in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our performance in 2017 was good, with like-for-like increases in both sales and profit as we executed on our strategy, and helped by a recovery in the USA and certain key end markets.
John OHiggins Chief Executive capacity in Finland, which is due to be commissioned in the third Positioning ourselves to deliver quarter of 2018. our solutions strategy We will also be adding capability through the joint venture Our strategy is evolving towards the provision of complete solutions agreement we signed with Macquarie Capital in which they have to our customers, based on our deep application and technical agreed to acquire a 50% interest in our environmental monitoring expertise, and we made good progress in broadening our software business, EMS Brel & Kjr.
It is expected to close in the second and services offerings to customers.
quarter of 2018, subject to regulatory approvals in China, the European Union and South Korea.
This partnership, with a Corporate development world-leading infrastructure adviser and investor, should benefit We completed a number of bolt-on acquisitions in 2017.
Setpoint the new joint venture in its next stage of development as we jointly brings conditioning monitoring hardware and software solutions invest organically and inorganically to collaborate on our remote for rotating and reciprocating machinery, allowing online condition monitoring and analytics offering for environmental monitoring.
monitoring analysis and machinery diagnostics, and has been The combination of our expertise in environmental monitoring integrated into Brel & Kjr Vibro to enhance its product offering.
solutions and Macquarie Capitals significant presence in Omnicon provides a range of services and software to help its infrastructure markets will accelerate the growth of the business.
customers analyse and improve product reliability and safety, particularly in aerospace, automotive, transportation and defence.
In January 2018, we acquired Concept Life Sciences, which The combination of Omnicons expertise in reliability design and provides integrated drug discovery, development, analytical testing with HBM Prenscias software and services will enable testing and environmental consultancy services, mainly in the us to provide customers with a broader range of , biotechnology, agrochemical and environmental improvement solutions.
Additionally, it carries out development and analytical services for the food, consumer and environmental industries.
We further strengthened the Millbrook business in the UK with Concept Life Sciences is a high-quality services business which the acquisition of the CSA Leyland Technical Centre, an automotive further strengthens our portfolio, has strong synergies with the test facility in Lancashire which adds further capacity as well as a activities of Malvern Panalytical and enhances our ability to provide complementary customer base and services.
In addition, we customers within the pharmaceutical, life sciences and advanced invested 25.5 million at Millbrook predominantly on new capacity, materials sectors with a combined product and service proposition.
such as the 4WD climatic emissions chassis dynamometer cell which we commissioned in the year, and additional indoor testing Spectris plc 11 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued Strategic initiatives revised the scope of the programme, resulting in a change in the magnitude and phasing of benefits and costs from those originally In order to drive our strategic initiatives, we have made a number of expected.
As a result, for Phase 1, we now expect annualised investments including new central leadership appointments in lean, recurring savings of 25 million and a total cost to achieve these supply chain, software and digital.
Ensuring we have best-in-class of 35 million by the end of 2019, with more coming from processes and capabilities will be key to our continued success and procurement activities and less from IT.
This compares to previous these new roles will be pivotal in developing best practice and expectations of 35 million of savings and 45 million of costs.
driving performance enhancement across the Group.
This will be In 2018, the net benefit for Phase 1 is now expected to be supported by our new central HR function with its talent 3 million.
Work is again underway to affirm the potential benefits management and organisational capability programme.
and costs of the shared service centre project in Phase 2 and we will Across the Group, delivery of our strategy has meant more provide further details on this later in 2018.
Costs of 3-4 million collaboration between our operating companies.
Automotive is a related to this work will be incurred during 2018. key end-market focus and here we have strengthened our key As well as delivering the projected savings, the programme will account management approach and provided a more collaborative further support our customer-focused solutions strategy, freeing up offering.
This is based on our expertise in four key areas durability, resources to facilitate the delivery of our strategy by identifying and propulsion, safety and refinement in order to cross-sell our capitalising on cross-group opportunities and making it easier for products, software and services from Brel & Kjr Sound & our customers to do business with us.
At Malvern Panalytical, which we merged at the start of the year, Our people deliver the strategy there is now one management team and a combined sales and Ensuring we have the right people in place to deliver the strategy marketing team.
Their collaboration has led to numerous will continue to be a key focus.
As our business evolves and there is cross-selling opportunities and, together with a more value-based more co-ordination across operating companies, it is critical that we approach to providing customer solutions, the combined business retain the factors that have driven our success, preserving the has made good progress during the year.
entrepreneurial and dynamic nature of the Group, as well as We have also been reviewing our digital-led customer applications, continuing to promote our strong ethical culture and values.
In with the potential for more cross-group solutions by leveraging 2017, there has been a notable step forward in our leadership existing operating company technologies, competencies and talent management process and this will continue to be a key focus end-market expertise to more broadly serve our customers needs.
linked to our future strategy and operating model.
New product development and our combination of hardware and software are focused on simplifying the integration of Summary and outlook customer-generated data with remote data analytics services Our performance in 2017 was good, with LFL increases in both and in January 2018, we launched Spectris Advance to showcase sales and profit as we executed on our strategy, and helped by this digital offering to customers.
a recovery in the USA and certain key end markets.
In 2018, We decided to divest our machine vision technology business, we expect to see the benefit of organic sales growth, partly Microscan, as we believe its next stage of development can be offset by the investment in our strategic growth initiatives and better fulfilled under new ownership.
The Group completed the foreign currency exchange headwinds.
sale to Omron Corporation in October, resulting in post-tax cash We remain focused on increasing productivity and reducing proceeds of 91.9 million.
Our balance sheet remains strong and complexity through Project Uplift.
The magnitude and phasing provides the opportunity for us to redeploy capital to add further of the benefits and costs from this programme have varied from software and services capability.
those originally envisaged, primarily due to a re-scoping of the IT project.
As a result, we now expect Phase 1 to deliver annual Project Uplift savings of 25 million at a total cost of 35 million over the period Project Uplift continues to make progress, with Phase 1 fully to the end of 2019. underway.
The majority of the Phase 1 savings will be derived from Our key priority remains the implementation of the strategy leveraging the Groups scale, for instance through securing to provide a broader offering to our customers.
Our balance improved terms for procurement of goods and services, both direct sheet remains strong and we will continue to make acquisitions and indirect.
We made progress on this on a number of fronts to support this strategy as we expand our software and during 2017: for example, we implemented new global freight services capability.
contracts and are well advanced in the process of transitioning to new suppliers for a number of key product components.
In 2017, the cost of 15.8 million and gross recurring benefit of 2.8 million were both lower than originally expected, and included an additional 1 million of spend on the Phase 2 shared service centre project.
As we started to implement the initiatives during 2017, it became evident that the IT implementation is more complex to deliver than we had anticipated and we have therefore 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 d e C p l a o p y i t m a e l n t e t c e n k e r s a e M r O p e p x e c r e a l Positioning ourselves to deliver our solutions strategy Our strategy is evolving towards the provision of complete solutions to our customers, based on our deep application and technical expertise, and we made good progress in broadening our software and services offerings to customers.
We completed a number of acquisitions in 2017 Setpoint brings conditioning monitoring hardware and software solutions for rotating and reciprocating machinery, allowing online condition monitoring analysis and machinery diagnostics, and has been integrated into Brel & Kjr Vibro to enhance its product offering.
Omnicon provides a range of services and software to help its customers analyse and improve product reliability and safety, particularly in aerospace, automotive, transportation and defence.
The combination of Omnicons expertise in reliability design and testing with HBM Prenscias software and services will enable us to provide customers with a broader range of  solutions.
We further strengthened the Millbrook business in the UK with the acquisition of the CSA Leyland Technical Centre, an automotive test facility in Lancashire which adds further capacity as well as a complementary customer base and services.
In January 2018, we acquired Concept Life Sciences, a high-quality services business which provides integrated drug discovery, development, analytical testing and environmental consultancy services, mainly in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrochemical and environmental sectors.
