04 Group Chief Executives review Today, Balfour Beatty is well placed to drive sustainable profitable growth, underpinned by a strong balance sheet.
Leo Quinn Group Chief Executive Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 05 These strong results demonstrate the Balfour Beattys net cash position and With these moves, the Group is now able transformation being delivered by the the value of the Investments portfolio to maximise its strengths in its chosen Build to Last programme.
Today, Balfour underline the ongoing strength of the markets in the UK & Ireland, US and Beatty is well placed to drive sustainable Groups balance sheet and place it in a Far East.
profitable growth, underpinned by a strong strong position to further pay down gross Balfour Beatty is increasingly building its balance sheet.
It has strength and depth borrowings in 2018. business model on a foundation of deep in leadership, a new, positive culture is The order book decreased by 8% to capability underpinned by risk reduction.
being embedded and the business is well 11.4 billion 2016: 12.4 billion, down This means focusing on specic markets positioned in each of its chosen markets.
3% at CER compared to prior year, and with inherent growth, where Balfour Beatty The Group reported an underlying profit is directly in line with the order book at has the right expertise to command market from operations PFO of 196 million 30 June 2017.
The reduction is a result leading margins, while ensuring it deploys 2016: 69 million driven by material yearof the Groups stated policy of selective the governance and transparency to price on-year improvements in all earnings-based bidding at appropriate terms for those contractual risk appropriately and manage businesses.
Both Support Services and projects best aligned with its capabilities.
US Construction reported PFO margins The business increased bid margin in the range of industry-standard margins.
thresholds and focused on projects where UK Construction continues on its positive Balfour Beattys capabilities can deliver trend, with a profit from operations of value, coupled with a lower risk prole, 16 million 2016: 65 million loss.
sothat the Group wins work at appropriate terms and conditions.
Leo Quinn The Group is on track to achieve industryGroup Chief Executive Additionally, the order book does not yet standard margins in all of its earningsinclude work won in two-stage design and based businesses in the second half of build contracts, such as work awarded 2018 as it continues to drive three key to Balfour Beattys 50:50 joint venture levers for improved financial performance: Balfour Beatty VINCI for two major nalising the remaining historical contracts civils packages, Lots N1 and N2, for through to completion: reducing costs and the UKs new high speed railway HS2 raising productivity across its operations: valued at 2.5 billion.
This type of work and executing on the improved quality of is characteristic of the strong pipeline the order book.
of infrastructure projects in the Groups Cash remains the Groups focus and chosen markets and aligns with its ultimately the most important barometer of balanced attitude to risk and reward.
During the year, the Group had average net cash of 42 million Consistent with the strategy to simplify 2016: 46 million net debt : at year end, the Group and focus on markets and the Group had net cash of 335 million geographies where it has a competitive 2016: 173 million.
The year end gure advantage, Balfour Beatty exited the includes 103 million received from the Middle East with the sale of its entire sale of a 12.5% stake in Connect Plus, interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty and the company which operates the M25 BK Gulf for 11 million.
Both businesses London orbital motorway.
The Directors were sold without future liabilities to valuation of the Investments portfolio the joint venture partner.
Additionally, has remained unchanged at 1.2 billion Heery International, a full-service US 2016: 1.2 billion, despite the Connect engineering and programme management, Plus M25 partial disposal, as a result of the architecture and interior design rm, was continuing strong market for secondary sold for US$57 million, eliminating potential infrastructure assets and the recent conicts of interest with Balfour Beattys favourable changes in US tax regulations.
The sale of a further 7.5% stake in the Since the start of 2015, Balfour Beatty M25, for 62 million, was agreed on has also exited Indonesia and Australia.
29 December 2017, although the cash In Canada, following the imminent wasnot received until 2018. completion of the BC Childrens and BC Womens hospitals in Vancouver, it now only holds Investments assets.
