08 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW Making a difference RUPERT PEARCE STRONG PERFORMANCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE ACROSS OUR BUSINESS OFFICER UNITS THROUGHOUT 2017 Our solid operational progress supported the Group in delivering revenue growth of over 5% for the year, with our investment in Global Xpress, our high bandwidth global mobile satellite network, starting to show material returns, generating over $140m of revenue in the year.
Indeed, there were strong performances across our business units throughout 2017: In Maritime, we made important strategic progress in securing the long-term future for Fleet Xpress, with significant commitments signed with leading distribution partners.
After a challenging year in 2016, which continued into Q1 2017, we delivered quarter-on-quarter growth for three consecutive quarters and year-on-year revenue growth in the fourth quarter In Government, we delivered on our strategy to increase our contracted revenue base and diversify our customer and product base, supported by another excellent operational performance during the year In Aviation, we further established our market position in IFC through commercial momentum and strategic investment, and our core business delivered double digit revenue growth throughout 2017 OUR RESULTS Inmarsat delivered further Enterprise continues to make progress notwithstanding challenges, by focusing operational and strategic on mobility applications.
We remain progress in 2017, comprising optimistic about the long-term future 5.4% demand for M2M connectivity in the both gratifying near term INCREASE IN REVENUE emerging global Internet of Things revenue growth as well as IoT market several important strategic We also delivered several notable successes in the development of our global networks proof-points around exciting in particular: medium-term growth We successfully launched our fourth $142m GX satellite in May 2017, to provide global opportunities, especially in GLOBAL XPRESS REVENUE in-orbit redundancy and additional In-Flight Connectivity IFC capacity and capabilities into new regional growth opportunities Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review 09 Our S-band satellite was also successfully capacity to invest in new skills to support management activities in our current technology launched in June 2017, to become an integral the future growth of the business.
Whilst this division, our business units and our finance part of our new European Aviation Network was unsettling for many of our staff, it was an division, bringing together all product-related EAN, to be combined with a complementary exercise that had to be undertaken to ensure activities under one roof, and the addition of our air-to-ground component network the business has a solid functional backbone nascent and fast-growing digital services team.
recently completed by Deutsche Telekom from which to support our growth in the future.
We believe this will provide more focus and and expected to be launched in 2018 agility in our product and service innovation, There were also a number of changes to our development and life cycle management, We completed the design and procurement Executive Management team during the year.
The team will of our fifth GX satellite, announced and Leo Mondale, President of our Aviation Business work as a catalyst between the business units initiated in July 2017 and expected to Unit, and Michele Franci, our Chief Technology and the central functions, focusing on the be launched in late 2019, and our two Officer, both left the business in 2017.
I would strategic and commercial value of these replacement Inmarsat-6 satellites remain like to thank both Leo and Michele for their services, as well as driving a multi-disciplinary on track for their launches in 2020 and significant contributions to the business over approach to building them.
Our technology 2021, respectively and the years and I wish them all the very best divisions focus will tighten to global networks for the future.
We procured launchers for two of these satellite programmes: comprising Phil Balaam, previously our Chief Strategy Arianespaces Ariane-5 for GX-5 2019 Officer, replaced Leo as the President of our INMARSAT REMAINS WELL and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries H-IIA Aviation Business Unit, running our global POSITIONED TO CAPTURE rocket for Inmarsat-6F1 2020 Aviation IFC and core businesses, and SIGNIFICANT GROWTH Peter Hadinger, previously President of our OPPORTUNITIES These planned investments in our network U. S. Government Business Unit, steps up to infrastructure drove an increase in capital Our performance in 2017, supported by the become our new Chief Technology Officer.
expenditure in 2017, which was the primary impact of these organisational developments, Susan Miller in consequence steps up to driver behind the reduction in free cash flow will help to ensure that Inmarsat remains well become the President of our U. S. Government in the year.
positioned to capture the significant growth Business Unit, bringing together our wholesale opportunities that will become available and retail U. S. Government sales activities Adjusted EBITDA for the Group declined by in the coming years, as a result of two major under one roof, and stepping up onto Inmarsats 5.5%, in the year, with revenue growth offset demand drivers.
I am pleased to say that Phil, by further planned investment in IFC market Peter and Susan are all vastly experienced capture and service delivery and in developing Firstly, the current demand for global and highly skilled operators in the satellite our networks and back office infrastructure, mobile satellite broadband services continues industry and I am extremely confident that as well as changes in revenue mix.
to grow more rapidly than in many other they will help to further drive the performance satellite segments.
Secondly, lower speed, and development of the key parts of the high resistance satellite connectivity services SIGNIFICANT ACTIONS TAKEN business that they now lead.
to support emerging IoT applications offers LEADING TO MAJOR CHANGES significant growth potential over the TO THE ORGANISATION DURING At the end of the year, we also created a medium to long-term.
THE YEAR new division within the business, the Product Group, led by Nick Thexton as our Chief Product Both of these areas will be driven by further There were a number of significant Officer, who joined us last year from YouView growth in demand for mobile connectivity people-related actions carried out during and previously spent many years in a number services in the Maritime, Government, the year, which led to major organisational of senior roles at Cisco Systems and NDS.
Aviation and Enterprise markets, supported developments across our business.
Nick also joined Inmarsats Executive Team.
by the ongoing surge in data utilisation During the fourth quarter, we initiated a This newly created product team has by users on the move and around the world.
headcount reduction programme to reduce been established through a spin-out of our legacy costs, ensuring that we have the our end-to-end product development and OUR CONFIDENCE ABOUT THE FUTURE IS BASED ON OUR STRONG TRACK RECORD, UNIQUE CAPABILITIES AND DIFFERENTIATED MARKET POSITION 10 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED In Maritime, we are confident that our future With two complementary global satellite Established global distribution networks, growth will be founded on continued progress communications networks each with in-orbit both through direct and indirect channels, in penetrating the maritime VSAT markets redundancy, we are fully focused on mobility providing a diversified route to market, and by diversification of our L-band business markets.
With a 38-year history and reputation global access and reach, specialisation into new market segments.
In Government, of delivering reliable and agile connectivity and customer intimacy we remain well-placed to capture value over services to customers, we are very well positioned A clear technology roadmap, based on the medium-term as the trusted provider to retain and capture a leading market position an open network architecture, enabling the of unique space-based capabilities to in both global mobile broadband and satellite agglomeration of diverse future technologies, governments as and when near-term budgetary IoT markets.
Our confidence is supported by our: as appropriate, with a unique ability to: and operational tempo headwinds start to ease.
Unrivalled presence in key end markets, In Enterprise, future growth is targeted in the Augment our global GX network with a disciplined focus on end users for emerging IoT opportunity, where we expect through new, agile, lower cost technologies, whom our services are highly differentiated satellite services to play a substantial global focused on areas of high demand, to and mission critical, supported by strong role over the medium-term.
Finally, we expect remain a leader in coverage, capability, local market access and licensing, following that Aviation will be the largest individual growth capacity and cost.
This will translate many years of  and driver for the overall business in the coming over the medium-term into high relative investment.
We are the current global leaders years, through the consistent double-digit returns on investment and ensure we in the supply of satellite telecommunications growth trajectory of our core Aviation business continue to efficiently deliver a lower cost services to the maritime, government and composed of services to the Business and per bit to our customers, while maintaining aviation sectors General Aviation segment and the Safety and tight control over the timing and extent Operational Services segment and through Long-standing and sustainable of our capex.
As a consequence we expect the significant medium-term growth potential advantage in global coverage, enabling infrastructure capex to meaningfully of our fast-emerging and substantial IFC our customers to utilise a seamless, moderate after 2020 Aviation business.
consistent service wherever they are in Renew our valuable and differentiated the world, ensuring they have reliable, L-band services with the current always-on connectivity across our truly investment in the Inmarsat-6 generation global technology platforms of satellites, which will replace our Owner economics, ensuring we provide Inmarsat-4 series.
This will also help us to a high quality service to customers, meeting pursue complementary medium-term their capacity requirements and delivering L-band growth opportunities in for them an optimised value proposition emerging global IoT markets and other new opportunities 16 MAY 2017 02 JUNE 2017 Inmarsat confirms successful launch of fourth Inmarsat awards contract Global Xpress satellite.
Inmarsat-5 F4 I-5 F4 for the construction of was launched by SpaceX on a Falcon 9 rocket our fifth Global Xpress from historic launch pad 39A at NASAs GX satellite to Thales Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
2017 Highlights 22 FEBRUARY 2017 24 MAY 2017 Inmarsat awarded UK Space Agency Inmarsat and BSNL open Indian GSPS satellite gateway.
Under grant funding, to develop satellite licence from Indias Department of Telecommunications DOT, application programmes that address the new GSPS gateway, located in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, pressing social concerns in Nigeria, will enable BSNL and Inmarsat to meet the most demanding the Philippines and Indonesia.
requirements of satphone users throughout the country.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review 11 WE ARE TARGETING MID-SINGLE DIGIT PERCENTAGE REVENUE GROWTH EXCLUDING LIGADO ON AVERAGE OVER THE NEXT FIVE YEARS Based on our future delivery against these We are targeting mid-single digit percentage A STRATEGY DESIGNED TO strategic objectives, we remain confident revenue growth excluding Ligado on average FUTURE PROOF OUR BUSINESS in the medium to long-term growth outlook over the next five years, with EBITDA and free Given Inmarsats track record, unique capabilities for the business.
This confidence reflects the cash flow generation both excluding Ligado and differentiated market position, we are well strong long-term growth anticipated in our expected to steadily improve as a result of the placed to continue to grow our revenues in key mobile satellite communications markets, combined impact of this growing revenue base, 2018 and beyond and to capture significant our market-leading global broadband GX an improved revenue mix, tightly managed medium-term growth opportunities available capabilities, our unique competitive position overhead costs and new, lower cost, satellite to us in each of our chosen markets.
within each of the fast-growing Aviation markets, technologies being implemented.
We expect the resilience and agility of our established these factors to drive a meaningful moderation This will be supported by our strategy, L-band business and its future growth potential, in our annual infrastructure capex over outlined in more detail on the next few pages the power of our global distribution channels the medium-term.
of this report, which is to be an enabler for and our full-service global mobile offering.
This strategy is based Finally, I would like to thank our employees for on the following priorities: Building on the strong positive momentum their support and hard work over the past year, achieved in 2017, and based on our recent in particular for their willingness to embrace Capturing the maximum number contract wins in a number of markets, change.
And I would like to thank our partners, of broadband platforms we expect to deliver further revenue growth customers, shareholders and other stakeholders Re-positioning our L-band services in the short term, to come mainly from for the trust and support they continue for new growth material new GX revenue streams.
our L-band business to remain resilient over Establishing our digital platform the medium-term, given its differentiated and business characteristics, with future growth coming from RUPERT PEARCE Creating a high-performance the emergence of new market opportunities, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER organisation and such as IoT, services to smaller vessels and 9 March 2018 aircraft, and next generation maritime Transforming our operating environment and aviation safety services.
24 OCTOBER 2017 Inmarsat is Official Satellite Communications Partner to the 2017-18 Volvo Ocean Race.
29 JUNE 2017 06 SEPTEMBER 2017 12 SEPTEMBER 2017 22 NOVEMBER 2017 Inmarsat confirms successful launch Tlcoms Sans Frontires Inmarsat selects Mitsubishi Inmarsat opens office at of S-band satellite.
Inmarsat S EAN, first deployment with Heavy Industries MHI world-leading Norwegian was launched on an Ariane 5 rocket GX is to the West Indies as the launch provider for Maritime Competence by Arianespace from Kourou in the aftermath of the first satellite in the Center NMCC based in French Guiana.
