04 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executive Officers statement Continued strong performance Underlying earnings per share I am delighted to report another excellent year for OneSavings Bank OSB.
The Groups clear strategy and unique business model have proven robust as we successfully navigated significant regulatory and tax changes during the year.
51.1p Underlying basic earnings per share grew by 23% to 51.1 pence with underlying pre-tax profit up by 21% to 167.7m.
Wefinished the year with a strong balance sheet, a high 23% quality secured asset portfolio and an excellent reputation for customer service.
Our strategy continues to provide the 2016: 41.7p platform for us to grow and develop our business.
The Group grew its loan book by 23% to 7.3bn in 2017, whilst Dividend per share maintaining its strong discipline on understanding and pricing for risk, and delivering a stable net interest margin NIM of 3.16% for the year.
12.8p Balance sheet growth was achieved whilst delivering a best in class return on equity of 28% and a low cost to income ratio of 27%.
Our Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital ratio increased 22% to 13.7% from 13.3% in 2016, demonstrating the strength of 2016: 10.5p our organic capital generation capability to support significant growth through profitability.
I am very pleased that we further optimised our capital structure through the issuance of 60m of Additional Tier 1 securities AT1 securities in May 2017.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.3 pence per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.5 pence this gives a total dividend per share for the year of 12.8 pence, in line with our stated dividend policy.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 05 Best specialist lender We continue to deliver exceptional OneSavings Bank continued to grow its loan book through its specialist lending brands, with total organic origination performance and reinforce our up by 14% in 2017 to 2.6bn.
Our core Buy-to-Let lending sub-segment grew by 39% to 5.0bn, with our target audience position as a leading specialist of professional landlords continuing to deliver strong lender, supported by our stable, application and completion volumes.
long-standing retail savings This performance has been achieved despite the overall Buy-to-Let market shrinking in response to tax and regulatory franchise and efficient, scalable changes.
These changes have reduced the attractiveness of the sector to amateur investors, whilst largely maintaining back office function.
the interest of professional landlords, and have driven the reduction in gross advances from 40.6bn in 2016 to 1 35.8bn in 2017.
In this context, the Banks performance demonstrates the sustainable strength of our proposition targeted at professional landlords, particularly our specialist, manual underwriting, and our deep relationships with We made significant investment in our sales capability and mortgage intermediaries.
continued to gain recognition from mortgage customers and intermediaries, winning multiple awards during the year.
New Buy-to-Let mortgage origination increased during 2017, I am particularly pleased that OSB won the Mortgage Strategy reflecting our specialism and expertise in lending to limited Awards, Best Specialist Lender and The Mortgage Introducer companies and large portfolio landlords.
Professional Awards, Specialist Lender of the Year in 2017. multi-property landlords accounted for 80% of completions for OSB by value during 2017, up from 75% in 2016.
To encourage greater levels of retention amongst borrowers reaching the end of their initial product term, OSB offers a We have also seen significant growth in the commercial side mortgage product transfer scheme Choices.
Under this of our Buy-to-Let SME segment.
Organic origination grew to programme, borrowers are encouraged to engage with their 176m, as we focused on innovation and building scale in our broker to receive advice and select from a bespoke product established InterBay Commercial business.
Since the implementation of the scheme in mid-2016, we successfully piloted an entry to the bespoke bridging market, have seen a consistently strong proportion of our borrowers again leveraging the Banks strengths in asset risk assessment choose a new product within three months of their initial and manual underwriting.
product ending, at around 60% by December 2017.
This is driven by success in switching borrowers who were otherwise We saw a reduction in originations in the residential segment remaining on standard variable rate SVR and who, by in2017.
This contributed to the first charge gross loan book definition, were therefore in the market for other lenders.
reducing to 1,241m from 1,322m in 2016, with new organic lending more than offset by redemptions in the back book and Sustainable funding model with award-winning savings acquired mortgages in run-off.
However, we see opportunities Our stable and award-winning retail funding franchise for growth in the residential market in 2018 and beyond.
continues to support lending growth, with retail deposits up 12% to 6.7bn during the year.
Over 27,000 new savings I am pleased that our more cyclical commercial businesses customers joined the Bank during 2017 and our successful continued to perform strongly.
The Banks Heritable programme of creating long-term savings relationships by Development Finance business provides development finance offering market competitive rates to all customers, including to smaller residential developers, with a preference for forging those with maturing fixed rate bonds and ISAs, continued relationships with those active outside prime central London.
to deliver a very strong 90% retention rate.
The strength The business continued to grow in 2017, in spite of new and fairness of our retail savings proposition, coupled with entrants to the market, as customers sought an experienced excellent customer service and high retention rates, continues and pragmatic lender.
to allow the Bank to raise significant funds without needing to price at the very top of the best buy tables and provides In addition, we have also grown the provision of secured a consistent and stable source of liquidity.
funding lines to other lenders that operate in certain high yielding, specialist sub-segments, such as residential bridge I am delighted that Kent Reliance has been recognised by finance and asset finance.
Moneyfacts in 2017 as the Best Cash ISA Provider for the fifth year running.
The Bank also received the ISA Provider of the Whilst we continue to carefully consider inorganic acquisition Year Award from Consumer Moneyfacts for the second opportunities, market pricing did not meet our high return consecutive year.
These awards are a testament to our savings targets during the year.
proposition and to the outstanding customer service delivered by our staff.
Our broker net promoter score NPS recovered from the short-term negative NPS of -7 in the first half of the year, the result of a surge in Buy-to-Let volumes.
For the second half of the year, our NPS was 25.
UK Finance, New and outstanding buy-to-let new mortgages, 2 Feb 2018.
06 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executive Officers statement continued The weighted average LTV of the overall mortgage book We continue to gain recognition remained low at 64% at the end of 2017, with an average LTV of 69% on new origination during the year.
among customers and In 2017 we saw the market adjusting to the new Buy-to-Let intermediaries, winning multiple underwriting standards, including ensuring that lenders awards during the year.
reflect the changes to personal tax on landlords within their affordability assessments.
We have seen a clear trend for borrowers to seek to mitigate this by opting to borrow via a limited company during 2016 and 2017, with a continued increase in the proportion of purchase applications via limited companies for our main Buy-to-Let brand, Kent Reliance, to 69% in 2017.
The Group has always specialised in lending The Bank remained predominantly retail funded during 2017, 2 to limited companies, and given market trends, this gives us with a loan to deposit ratio for the year of 92% delivering a competitive advantage over those lenders without such on our strategy to primarily fund our loan book using retail a capability.
We continued to make judicious use of the Bank of Englands Funding for Lending Scheme FLS and the Term From 1 January 2017, The Prudential Regulation Authority Funding Scheme TFS, drawing down additional net funding PRA required lenders to adopt more stringent affordability of 624m in the year.
The Bank completed its planned assessments.
We have always assessed affordability for transition out of the FLS into the TFS by year end.
As at borrowers through our specialist underwriting model and 31 December 2017, TFS drawdowns stood at 1.25bn.
applied stringent stress tests, so were well-placed to benefit from these changes.
This can be seen in our weighted average Leveraging our unique business model interest coverage ratio ICR for Buy-to-Let origination during As the Group has grown, costs and efficiency have remained a 2017, which increased to 185%, demonstrating our cautious key focus for the business, resulting in a stable cost to income 3 approach to the assessment of customer affordability.
ratio of 27% 2016: 27% despite significant investment during the year.
We continued to invest in our risk management and Further market-wide measures to strengthen underwriting modelling capabilities in preparation for IFRS 9 and our standards were implemented from October 2017.
We already planned internal ratings-based IRB application.
We also substantively met the regulatory requirements for assessment invested in technology to offer an automated solution to of landlords with four or more mortgaged properties, and brokers to help the Bank meet the PRAs new specialist sought to enhance this proposition through the use of underwriting rules in an efficient way.
technology, creating a simple and automated way of  portfolio information.
This has OSBIndia continues to undertake a range of primary beenembedded within our underwriting process to create processing services at a significantly lower cost than an astrong proposition for brokers and borrowers alike.
equivalent UK-based operation and with very high quality levels.
I am especially pleased that we achieved this whilst These measures, and an expectation of further interest maintaining our focus on customers, borne out by an increase raterises, also caused a shift in the demand amongst our in customer NPS to an outstanding 62 2016: 59. professional landlords towards five-year fixed rate products which accounted for c. 43% of our Buy-to-Let completions in We continue to differentiate ourselves from the competition 2017.
Competition has increased in this area, and the market by offering well-defined propositions in high margin, has not yet fully repriced following the Bank of England base underserved markets, where we have the experience, as well rate rise in November 2017 or for subsequent widening of as the internal and intermediary infrastructure, to successfully swap spreads, putting pressure on margins.
develop and service those markets.
Outlook Building our business for the future Trading conditions in our core markets are positive and The Group continued to exercise strong diligence over loan current application levels are strong.
In line with UK Finance and customer assessment.
The loan loss ratio fell to 7bps in forecasts, the overall Buy-to-Let market is expected to the year to 31 December 2017 2016: 16bps mainly due to contract further in 2018, however, we expect to continue assumption updates that took place in 2016.
We remain to grow market share through the relevance of our proposition particularly pleased with the performance of the front book of to professional landlords.
From more than 38,500 loans totalling 8.3bn of new organic originations since the Banks creation in February The Groups IFRS 9 models and first generation IRB models 2011, we have only 137 cases of arrears over three months in were delivered on schedule in late 2016 and we ran the duration, with an aggregate balance of 18.4m and an models in parallel throughout 2017.
We remain pleased with average loan to value LTV of 63%, reflecting the continued progress towards our IRB application and also welcomed the strength of the Banks underwriting and lending criteria.
recalibration of risk weights in the final revisions to the Basel III reforms on standardised capital requirements published 2.
Excluding the impact of TFS FLS drawdowns.
The unadjusted ratio was 109% as at 31 December 2017 2016: 100%.
We believe that these new calibrations 3.
Prior to 2017, OSB deducted coupons on equity Perpetual Subordinated Bonds combined with the final IRB output floor will be beneficial to PSBs accounted for as dividends from underlying profit before and after tax, the Banks capital requirements, however we remain cautious net interest margin and cost to income ratio.
Following a review of market until the final rules are adopted.
practice in advance ofthe Banks AT1 issue in May 2017, OSB no longer deducts these coupons from the calculation of these key performance indicators.
The comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Interest payments on AT1 securities classified as dividends are treated inthesame way.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 07 The market sub-segments targeted by OSB, principally We are a responsible lender and professional landlords, including limited companies, have remained strong despite the overall slowdown in the Buy-towill continue to manage the Let market in 2017.
We remain confident in the underlying strength of the Private Rented Sector and believe that we business prudently.
are well-placed as the Buy-to-Let market continues to professionalise in response to tax and regulatory changes.
Wewill continue to concentrate on what we have proven wedo best: using our relationships, manual underwriting expertise and secured lending strategy to lend responsibly toour customers.
Looking forward to 2018 Over the coming year, organic lending through the Buy-to-Let We see opportunities for growth in other segments of the segment will remain the key driver of loan book growth, lending market where we already have expertise and a but we expect to grow our residential lending, and our platform to build from.
In particular, we expect to grow commercial and bridge finance lending through our InterBay commercial and bridge finance lending through our InterBay Commercial brand.
Commercial brand and see further opportunities to grow our residential lending franchise.
We expect to deliver net loan book growth in the mid teens in2018 and NIM of c. 3%, reflecting current asset pricing, in We will remain predominantly retail funded, aiming to fund particular for five-year fixed loans and an expectation of a our loan book through our Kent Reliance savings brand.
In rising cost of retail funds after the end of TFS.
We anticipate addition, we intend to invest in our online savings platform acost to income ratio of c. 30%, reflecting the significant during 2018 to attract a broader customer base and grow SME increase in the cost of regulation and planned additional and other lower cost deposits in future years.
Our additional investment in the business.
liquidity will continue to come from wholesale funding, and we intend to return to the securitisation market during 2018 We start 2018 with a fully loaded CET1 ratio of 13.7% and following the closure of the TFS in February.
We drew down an aproven organic capital generation capability through additional 250m in 2018 before the scheme closed, bringing profitability.
We anticipate maintaining a CET1 ratio at a the total balance to 1.5bn.
Over time we will use these minimum of 12% going forward.
Our dividend policy remains different funding sources to optimise our cost of funds.
apayout ratio of at least 25% of underlying profit after taxation attributable to ordinary shareholders.
The pipeline of regulatory change continues to grow, with GDPR and PSD 2 both going live in 2018 and work continuing Our primary growth strategy remains organic origination, on IRB and other smaller regulatory projects.
We expect to but we continue to look at inorganic opportunities, expense c. 7m on regulatory projects in 2018, around double including portfolio purchases, where they meet the Banks the total in 2017.
In addition, we plan to continue to invest in return hurdles.
our technology infrastructure, mortgage origination system and online savings platforms to support our future growth I believe that OneSavings Bank is well placed to take strategy and enable us to broaden our reach into adjacent advantage of opportunities that arise and we remain capable markets, such as sub-segments of residential mortgages, of generating attractive returns for our shareholders.
where we see opportunities, particularly once we transition to IRB.
All of these projects are expected to lead to a significant Andy Golding increase in operating costs in 2018.
However, we expect to Chief Executive Officer offset this in part, by delivering further efficiencies in the cost 15 March 2018 of running the Bank on a business as usual basis, by continuing to focus on cost discipline and leveraging our unique operating platform in India.
We are now live with IFRS 9 after a successful parallel runthroughout 2017.
The day one impact of the implementation of IFRS 9 is an increase in the provisions of c. 4m, representing 9bps on the Banks CET1 ratio as at 31 December 2017, on an end game basis, reflecting the strength of security underpinning our loan book.
Our achievements in 2017 are a testament to the management and staff of OSB and I would like to thank my colleagues for their hard work and commitment throughout the year.
