Group chief executives letter Dear fellow shareholder, In this report last year, BP set out a five-year strategy and promised a story of growth.
One year into that five-year plan I am pleased to report that your company has just delivered a significant year of both disciplined execution and exciting growth.
In many ways it was an extraordinary year for BP.
Here are some of the headlines: Underlying profit $6.2 billion.
Our most successful year for exploration since 2004.
Group reserves replacement ratio the highest in 10 years.
Of course, we were helped by an improving oil price.
But that only tells part of the story.
2017 was a year We said that 2017 would be a very important where we again maintained our improved trend in safety performance for most of our main personal and year for BP.
We set out ambitious plans for the process safety metrics, although we have seen a slight year and we delivered on them.
increase in our tier 1 events.
Better safety and improved operational reliability, combined with strong discipline in our cash and capital costs, fed through into our financial performance.
In a complex and uncertain world this may seem like a simple equation safe and reliable operations plus cost discipline is good for the bottom line.
But it works and the numbers prove this.
We plan for the long term and we also measure our progress year on year and quarter by quarter.
We were disappointed that we had to increase the provision relating to claims associated with the Gulf of Mexico spill, although we made real progress during the year in our efforts to close out the remaining claims.
The claims facility is now winding down although a number of claims remain to be resolved.
Our five-year plan As I said, last year we set out our strategic priorities.
Simply put, these are designed to meet the dual challenge: to produce more of the affordable energy that the world needs while producing and delivering it in new ways, with fewer emissions, that society wants.
The key to this dual challenge is to recognize that this is not just a race to renewables, its a race to lower greenhouse gas emissions.
So, while we are fully committed to the energy transition that is underway, we also see a lot of uncertainty around the pace and path of how this will unfold.
$3.4bn Our aim is to build a strong and flexible strategy with a profit attributable to high-quality portfolio and the ability to adapt quickly as BP shareholders the pace and path become clearer.
That means in the Upstream we are focused on growing oil and gas in a way that offers us advantages in terms of margin and value, with the reduced emissions in mind.
In the Downstream we continue to develop advantaged manufacturing and marketing businesses that can create value from existing, new and emerging markets.
Above: Chairing the panel of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative meeting in London.
8 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report overview We are preparing for a low carbon future by investing in new companies and technologies across BP while 95.3% also leveraging knowledge from the development of our refining availability existing Alternative Energy businesses.
And we are modernizing how BP works, using technology and data to work more efficiently and digitizing our processes.
Disciplined execution in 2017 We said that 2017 would be a very important year for BP.
94.7% We set out ambitious plans for the year and we delivered Upstream plant on them.
reliability We promised to start up seven major projects in the Upstream.
We brought these online and under budget for the portfolio as a whole.
These projects, along with the emissions in our operations: improving the products our six we brought online in 2016, have contributed to a 12% customers use to help them reduce their emissions: increase in our production.
That helps to put us on track creating new low carbon businesses and offers that to deliver 900,000 barrels of new production per day by complement our existing portfolio.
We also strengthened our portfolio with our most In the low carbon space, we entered into a new successful year of exploration since 2004, sanctioned partnership with Lightsource, a global leader in the three exciting new projects in Trinidad, India and the Gulf development, acquisition and long-term management of Mexico and added 143% reserves replacement for the of large-scale solar projects.
In new ventures, we have a group.
pipeline of more than 40 active investments with more In the Downstream we promised to grow earnings.
In than 200 partners looking to exploit opportunities in fact, we had our best ever year, with a replacement cost advanced mobility, bio products, carbon management profit of $7.2 billion, driven by strong earnings growth in and low carbon power and storage.
our marketing and manufacturing businesses.
This came These are a few examples that I believe show we are in from volume growth in our premium fuels and lubricants, great shape to act where we see opportunity to make a the growth of our successful convenience retail real difference to this transition and, at the same time, partnerships around the world and strong performance in create value for our shareholders.
Strength in relationships Exciting growth opportunities The world is changing fast and there is a lot of This is a time of transformational change for our industry.
uncertainty of what the future will actually look like.
To An era of abundant resources and a changing fuel mix stay competitive a company needs to be in tune with mean that we must be competitive today and adapt fast society.
While we are making progress with issues such to change for tomorrow.
So, we must modernize how we as gender and ethnicity representation, we recognize we work, embrace new advanced technologies and maintain still have more to do.
Beyond having the right strategy, our downward pressure on costs.
We are already in to succeed and thrive in uncertainty requires strong and action across BP.
I am grateful to our partners, host governments and other stakeholders who have stood In the Upstream we are growing gas and advantaged by us in hard times and continue to work with us to help oil on many fronts: signing a 25-year extension to our shape our future and the future energy landscape.
ACG production-sharing agreement in Azerbaijan: strengthening our relationship with Petrobras and I am also grateful to you, our shareholders who have accessing the prolific Santos basin in Brazil: extending shown great patience while we stabilized BP and built up our innovative alliance with Kosmos in West Africa: our resilience.
I hope you see our recent performance as growing in Norway though our Aker BP joint venture: and signs that this patience is being rewarded.
adding production from onshore Abu Dhabi following the And last, but not least, I want to thank the global BP deepening of our long-term strategic relationship with team.
I dont believe there is another company of our the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company ADNOC at the size and scale that can adapt and manage change better end of 2016. than we can.
This spirit of invention and purpose has In the Downstream we are building competitively been alive across BP for over a century and will carry us advantaged businesses: extending our differentiated forward into what, I believe, is a very bright future.
retail fuels offer in material new markets such as Mexico, India, Indonesia and China: entering into a new joint Above: At the inauguration of venture with DongMing Petrochemical as part of a the first phase of development focused growth strategy in China: renewing and creating of Omans giant Khazzan gas new partnerships in lubricants with Renault Nissan, Ford, field.
Bob Dudley At the same time, we must look to produce and deliver Group chief executive More information energy in new ways, with fewer emissions, to help 29 March 2018 Strategy meet the worlds climate goals.
At BP we have been Page 12 working on this challenge for over two decades and that Group performance has informed our approach today: working to reduce Page 21 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary 9
