Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review With profits at the top end of the expectations we set out some 15 months ago, net debt lower than we expected, fully funded pension schemes, and strong order intake, we delivered a solid performance in 2017 in a difficult market.
ratio of over 100% for the first time since 2012: closing Most importantly, we expect profits to grow order book increased to 10.7bn, up from 9.9bn a in both 2018 and 2019.
We understand that year earlier.
getting to this point has been a long haul 2 Underlying Trading Profit was at the top end of for investors, and that there is still a long, our guidance given at the start of the year: run-rate and probably bumpy, road ahead before we throughout 2017 has been approximately 10% ahead are producing acceptable returns.
But we of that achieved in H2 2016. are now moving forward, not backward.
Operating costs reduced in proportion to the scale The benefits of our international footprint have never of revenue reduction: further shared services and been more evident as the UK market for public service overhead savings of around 20m achieved, taking outsourcing is afflicted by well-publicised traumas.
This total overhead savings over the last three years to environment may produce opportunities for suppliers over 100m.
with strong track records of delivery, and Serco also Reported result includes a 16m net charge of Contract has the advantage of choice as to where we allocate & Balance Sheet Review adjustments, compared resources and effort between different markets.
to a net release of 14m in 2016: cumulatively over Therefore, as well as ensuring that we support our UK the last three years, we are tracking 3% better than customers, and respond appropriately to opportunities the Contract & Balance Sheet Review charges taken as they arise, we will also be investing in our businesses in in 2014.
Closing balance sheet Onerous Contract North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Provision OCP liability now stands at 168m, down The challenges facing governments around the world from 220m in 2016 and 447m in 2014. remain unchanged.
Ageing populations are driving Pre-exceptional tax costs were 14m 2016: 16m, demand for more and better public services: almost and net exceptional costs were significantly lower at all governments spend more than they receive in tax: 25m 2016: 68m.
citizens have ever-higher expectations of the quality of 4 Free Cash Flow outflow improved by 26m to public services.
In this environment, governments are 6.7m, which includes 8m of outflow as we likely to want to use all means at their disposal to deliver reduced our working capital facility utilisation to zero value for money and high quality public services, which by the end of 2017.
Net Debt at 141m 2016: 109m should mean a strong continuing role for the private sector as a provider of innovation, investment and was some 9m below our guidance range at the start operational management.
of the year, and Net Debt : EBITDA leverage of 1.4x remains well within our medium term target of 12x.
Highlights Pension schemes fully funded and in a surplus on an 1 Reported Revenue down 2%, comprising a 6% accounting basis: around half of our pension liabilities organic decline from net contract attrition, partially are now fully underwritten by bulk annuity purchases, offset by a 4% currency benefit.
further reducing pension scheme residual risks.
Order intake up 36% at 3.4bn 2016: 2.5bn, includes Pipeline of larger new bid opportunities reduced to Grafton prison in Australia which is the Groups 4.4bn, as a number of unusually large opportunities largest ever contract win, and over 30 other contract moved through the pipeline during 2017: 3bn of the awards worth more than 10m each across the UK, pipeline are opportunities added over the course Europe, America and the Middle East: book-to-bill of2017.
32 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Acquisition of BTP Systems completed for IFRS15 estimated restatement to 2017 not anticipated $20m, bringing deep skills in defence satellite to be significant: decrease revenue by 3m and communication and radar engineering technical Underlying Trading Profit by 0.3m.
services, together with a pipeline of $200m.
Guidance for 2018 unchanged: we expect revenues We have signed a revised agreement with the Special to be 2.82.9bn, broadly flat in constant currency, Managers and Provisional Liquidators of Carillion and Underlying Trading Profit to grow to around plc, and while it is subject to requisite third party 80m, driven largely by transformation savings.
We consents, we continue to work with all relevant parties expect 2019 to see further good growth in Underlying to acquire the portfolio of selected UK health facilities Trading Profit.
How we performed Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 1 Revenue continuing and discontinued operations 2,953.6m 3,047.8m 1 Reported Revenue continuing operations only 2,953.6m 3,011.0m 2 Underlying Trading Profit UTP 69.8m 82.1m 2 Reported Operating Profit after exceptional items: continuing operations only 30.0m 42.2m 3 Underlying EPS, basic 3.42p 4.13p Reported EPS, basic after exceptional items: continuing and discontinued operations 0.02p 0.11p 4 Free Cash Flow 6.7m 33.0m Net Debt 141.1m 109.3m Notes to summary table of financial results: 1 Revenue is as defined under current IFRS before adoption of IFRS15, which excludes Sercos share of revenue of its joint ventures and associates.
Revenue including that from discontinued operations nil in 2017 and 36.8m in 2016 is shown for consistency with previous disclosures.
Reported Revenue excludes revenue from discontinued operations.
Organic revenue growth is the change at constant currency after adjusting to exclude the impact of relevant acquisitions or disposals.
Change at constant currency is calculated by translating non-Sterling values for the year ended 31 December 2017 into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the year ended 31 December 2016.
2 Trading Profit is defined as IFRS Operating Profit adjusted for i amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition and ii exceptional items: it includes the impact of discontinued operations in 2016.
Consistent with IFRS, it includes Sercos share of profit after interest and tax of its joint ventures and associates.
Underlying Trading Profit additionally excludes Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments principally Onerous Contract Provision OCP releases or charges, as well as the beneficial treatment of depreciation and amortisation of assets held for sale during 2016, and other material one-time items such as the pension scheme settlement in the first half of 2016 related to the profit on early exit from a UK local authority contract that occurred in the second half of 2015.
A reconciliation of Underlying Trading Profit to Trading Profit and Reported Operating Profit is as follows: Year ended 31 December m 2017 2016 Underlying Trading Profit 69.8 82.1 Include: non-underlying items Contract & Balance Sheet Review adjustments 15.8 14.2 Assets held for sale depreciation and amortisation 0.5 Other one-time items 3.5 Trading Profit 54.0 100.3 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 4.4 5.1 Operating Profit Before Exceptional Items continuing and discontinued operations 49.6 95.2 5 3.3 Exclude: Operating Loss Before Exceptional Items from discontinued operations Reported Operating Profit Before Exceptional Items continuing operations only 49.6 98.5 Operating Exceptional Items continuing operations only 19.6 56.3 Reported Operating Profit after exceptional items: continuing operations only 30.0 42.2 3 Underlying EPS reflects the Underlying Trading Profit measure after deducting pre-exceptional net finance costs and related tax effects.
4 Free Cash Flow is the net cash flow from operating activities before exceptional items as shown on the face of the Groups Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, adding dividends we receive from joint ventures and associates, and deducting net interest paid and net capital expenditure on tangible and intangible asset purchases.
5 The Global Services division, representing private sector BPO operations, was classified as a discontinued operation in 2015 and 2016.
Disposal of the offshore business was largely completed in December 2015, with the disposals of two remaining much smaller elements completed in March 2016 and December 2016.
The residual UK onshore private sector BPO operations were sold or exited in 2016 with the exception of one business, consisting of a single contract, which completed in July 2017.
Total revenues for the remaining operations were 5.4m and the loss before exceptional items was 0.6m for the year ended 31 December 2017, and therefore the results have been included in continuing operations in 2017 on the grounds of materiality.
Reconciliations and further detail of financial performance are included in the Finance Review on pages 50 to 68.
This includes full definitions and explanations of the purpose and usefulness of each non-IFRS Alternative Performance Measure APM used by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are on pages 151 to 227.
33 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Summary of financial performance Within our performance for the year, we delivered our target of 20m of cost savings from efficiencies in Revenue and Trading Profit central support functions and overheads.
Cumulatively Reported Revenue declined 2% to 2,954m 2016: over the last three years, over 100m of cost has been 3,011m : this measure excludes Sercos share of revenue removed through our programmes to deliver savings from joint ventures and associates of 357m 2016: 481m : by reducing the number of management layers, also excluded in the prior year is revenue of 37m from implementing better procurement and driving greater discontinued operations, which reflected the residual efficiency in the operation of shared services.
These run-off of the private sector BPO division.
Net currency savings have been central to our efforts to reduce the movements provided a 122m benefit or a 4% increase.
scale of Sercos cost base in proportion to the scale At constant currency and adjusting for minor effects of of the revenue reduction incurred through the loss of relevant acquisitions and disposals, the organic revenue contracts and the disposals undertaken.
decline was 188m or 6%: around a third of the organic element of the decline relates to no longer recognising Trading Profit was 54.0m 2016: 100.3m, with three as revenue the value of goods purchased on behalf of categories of adjusting items which are within Trading customers following changes to two health procurement Profit, but excluded from our measure of Underlying services contracts in the UK: the balance of the decline Trading Profit.
First, there was a 15.8m net charge relates to the ending or transfer of contracts such as those 2016: net release of 14.2m within Trading Profit arising for the UK Defence Science and Technology Laboratory from the review of Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs DSTL, Armidale Class Patrol Boats ACPB for the Royal and other Contract & Balance Sheet Review items: the Australian Navy, Virginia Department of Transportation OCP adjustments comprised gross charges totalling VDOT, US Army transition assistance SFLTAP and 62m 2016: 56m, partially offset by gross releases Western Australia Court Security and Custodial Services totalling 43m 2016: 66m.
By far the most significant WACSCS.
These and the effect of other smaller contract charge 47m related to the future revenue and cost attrition were only partially offset by growth elsewhere assumptions of operating the Caledonian Sleepers including that from the phased start of new services contract, though across other OCPs in the UK & Europe during the year at Barts Health NHS Trust, University division there was a net release of 16m and in AsPac Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust and Skills a net release of 11m.
Notwithstanding this years net Support for the Workforce SSW.
charge, it is worth noting that cumulatively over the last three years, the net improvement to Trading Profit from Underlying Trading Profit was 69.8m 2016: 82.1m, a OCPs and other Contract & Balance Sheet Review items decline of 12.3m or, excluding the 6.5m net currency is 19m: we are therefore tracking 3% better than the benefit, a decline of 18.8m.
The reduction was driven original charge taken through Trading Profit in 2014.
A by the first half of 2016 benefiting from 11m of nondetailed review of provisions and Contract & Balance recurring trading items, which included: the previous Sheet Review items is included in the Finance Review on higher shareholding and therefore larger share of the pages 50 to 68.
The second area that we exclude from profits of the Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE : Underlying Trading Profit is other material one-time the final settlement arrangements on the transfer of the items: in 2016 we therefore excluded from Underlying Northern Rail franchise: the conclusion of the VDOT and Trading Profit a 3.5m beneficial pension settlement SFLTAP operations: and a spike in activity on a defence negotiated as part of the early termination of the logistics contract in the Middle East.
In addition, as well Thurrock contract.
Third, and again only related to 2016, as the attrition impact from profitable contracts coming we excluded the beneficial impact of 0.2m related to an end, some of the new contracts added revenue to depreciation and amortisation treatment of assets growth in 2017 but were at reduced profitability due to classified as held for sale during 2016. their initial transition and transformation stages.
As with prior years, both Trading Profit and Underlying In the second half of 2016 our Underlying Trading Trading Profit benefited from losses on previouslyProfit was 31.5m, which was a period that did not identified onerous contracts being neutralised by the benefit from the non-recurring trading items that were utilisation of OCPs: the 69m utilised in 2017 was both a feature of the first half of 2016, and was a period better than our expectations of around 80m, and lower that had broadly comparable average currency rates than the 84m utilised in 2016.
The closing balance of to 2017.
Profits in both the first and second half 2017 OCPs now stands at 168m, compared to 220m a year were 35m, and therefore we have delivered a runearlier and the initial charge of 447m taken at the end rate approximately 10% ahead of that achieved in the of 2014.
We expect of the remaining 168m provision second half of 2016. approximately 70m will be utilised in 2018.
34 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Financing and pensions, tax and exceptional costs Tax on non-underlying items was a net credit of 6.6m 2016: credit of 8.5m.
The principal driver of this has Pre-exceptional net finance costs were 11.6m 2016: been a credit to reflect recognising a UK deferred tax 12.6m : while average net debt of 184m was 65m asset of 11.1m based upon the improved outlook of higher than the prior year, the increased cost of future profitability: there is now UK deferred tax asset financing this was more than offset by other small totalling 17.4m recognised on the balance sheet: there movements.
Cash net interest paid was 17.0m is a further estimated 160m deferred tax asset in the UK 2016:19.0m.
that is currently unrecognised and therefore contingent Within net finance costs is a net credit of 3.8m 2016: upon further improvement in the outlook.
Total pre- 4.7m related to the strong funding position of Sercos exceptional tax costs were therefore 14.0m 2016: pension schemes.
This net credit is lower than the 15.9m.
Exceptional tax costs were 5.0m 2016: credit prior year following the purchase in June 2017 by the of 3.1m.
The principal drivers of this were one-time Trustees of the Serco Pension and Life Assurance non-cash deferred tax adjustments as follows: a charge Scheme SPLAS of a bulk annuity from an insurer, of 16.1m related to the pension asset movements on which, for a significant proportion of scheme members, the bulk annuity purchase: a charge of 3.7m related to has the effect of fully removing longevity, investment the change in UK tax legislation regarding the speed of and accounting risks.
Assets of the pension scheme utilising tax losses and hence our deferred tax assets: have been transferred to the insurer to purchase the and a 12.5m credit reflecting the reduction in the US annuity, resulting in a reduction in the IAS19 net balance deferred tax liability following the fall in future expected sheet asset.
The gross liability remains recognised US rates primarily due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts & on our balance sheet, but there is now an equal and Jobs Act in December 2017. opposite insurance asset reflecting the perfect hedge Total tax costs were therefore 19.0m 2016: 12.8m.
As previously Including the effect of the transaction, the overall described, although we expect our cash tax to be pension scheme accounting surplus, before tax, was reasonably predictable in future periods, our effective 26m at 31 December 2017 on a scheme gross asset tax rates are likely to be volatile until we are able to show base of 1,385m.
As described below, the transaction sufficient profitability in our UK business to be able to resulted in an exceptional non-cash tax charge of recognise on our balance sheet all of the UK tax asset 16.1m reflecting a deferred tax adjustment related to arising from losses in 2014 and 2015 principally as a result the pension asset movements.
Further details of Sercos of the Contract & Balance Sheet Review.
Our guidance of pension funding and the bulk annuity purchase are the underlying effective tax rate for 2018 is however for described more fully in the Finance Review.
a modest reduction towards 30%, reflecting our forecast mix of profitability and the net effect of US tax reform, Tax and exceptional costs and for it to continue to reduce further over the longer The underlying effective tax cost was 20.6m 2016: term assuming further improvement in profits.
24.4m, representing an underlying effective rate of 35% 2016: 35% based upon 58.2m 2016: 69.5m The Group incurred operating exceptional costs of of Underlying Trading Profit less pre-exceptional net 19.6m 2016: 56.3m, mainly comprising 28.6m finance costs.
The rate is higher than the UK statutory of restructuring programme costs related to the rate of corporation tax as there was no deferred tax Transformation stage of our strategy, including credit taken against UK losses incurred in the year, and redundancy charges, asset impairments and other because it reflects the tax charges at locally prevailing incremental costs: these were partially offset by a nonrates in the international divisions which tend to be cash credit of 10.3m related to the previous transfer higher than the UKs rate: these two factors are partially of employees from the Serco defined pension scheme offset by the proportion of Sercos profit before tax back to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme generated by consolidating our share of joint venture PCSPS.
Together with exceptional tax costs of 5.0m and associate earnings which have already been taxed.
2016: credit of 3.1m and exceptional items related The Underlying effective rate was lower than our initial to discontinued operations were nil 2016: 14.6m : guidance of approximately 50% due to a beneficial total net exceptional costs were therefore 24.6m mix of profitability earned for the year, and due to a 2016:67.8m.
one-off effect of UK tax legislation enactment being recognised as an exceptional tax cost rather than within the underlying measure.
35 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Reported result for the year Dividends The reported result for the year, as presented at the The Board is not recommending the payment of a bottom of the Groups Consolidated Income Statement dividend in respect of the 2017 financial year.
Boards appraisal of the appropriateness of dividend This reflects: Trading Profit of 54.0m 2016: 100.3m : payments takes into account the Groups underlying amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on earnings, cash flows and financial leverage, together acquisition of 4.4m 2016: 5.1m : pre-exceptional net with the requirement to maintain an appropriate level finance costs of 11.6m 2016: 12.6m : a non-cash fair of dividend cover and the prevailing market outlook.
value gain of 0.7m 2016: nil relating to increasing our Although the Board is committed to resuming dividend ownership in a joint venture: pre-exceptional tax costs payments as soon as it believes it prudent to do so, of 14.0m 2016: 15.9m : and total net exceptional costs in assessing whether we should resume dividend of 24.6m 2016: 67.8m.
payments in respect of 2017, we have been mindful of the fact there has been a reduction in earnings, a Earnings Per Share EPS free cash outflow and an increase in net debt.
In these Underlying EPS, which reflects the Underlying Trading circumstances, the Board believes that it would not be Profit measure after deducting pre-exceptional finance prudent to resume dividend payments at the current costs and related tax effects, was 3.42p 2016: 4.13p.
For 2018, our guidance is for an improvement The reduction reflects the lower Underlying Trading in Underlying Trading Profit, but we anticipate a Profit, partially offset by lower net finance costs: the further modest Free Cash outflow and expect net weighted average number of shares in issue was broadly debt to still increase, largely as a result of cash outflows unchanged at 1,089.7m 2016: 1,088.3m.
Reported EPS, related to exceptional restructuring costs and taking which includes the impact of the other non-underlying opportunities for value-enhancing infill acquisitions.
items and lower tax and exceptional costs, was a loss The Board will continue to keep the dividend policy per share of 0.02p 2016: loss per share of 0.11p.
under close consideration as we progress with transforming the Group and implementing our strategy.
Cash Flow and Net Debt Free Cash Flow was negative 7m 2016: negative The Revenue and Trading Profit performances are 33m.
Cash generated from Underlying Trading Profit described further in the Divisional Reviews.
More was largely offset by the outflows related to lossdetailed analysis of earnings, cash flow, financing making contracts subject to OCPs.
These cash outflows andrelated matters are described further in the lessened versus the prior year, as reflected in the lower Finance Review.
There was a working capital Summary of operating performance outflow of 9m 2016: outflow of 24m, which included and strategy implementation 8m 2016: 22m of reduction in the utilisation of the Groups receivables financing facility: at 31 December Delivering a financial performance for 2017 at the top end of our expectations has been accompanied 2017 there was nil utilisation of the 30m facility, whereas 8m was utilised a year earlier.
by strong operational delivery and further progress on implementing our strategy and transformation.
Closing net debt at 31 December 2017 increased to Within our operating framework, we insist that all our 141m 2016: 109m : the increase includes the Free Cash management initiatives fit into one or more of four outflow, together with a 33m cash outflow related to categories: winning good business, executing brilliantly, exceptional items.
There was a beneficial gross currency making Serco a place people are proud to work, and translation effect on net debt of 17m, predominantly delivering profitability and sustainability.
reflecting the Groups US Private Placement debt, however this was partially offset by a 3m adverse Problematic contracts continue to reduce in number and financial impact versus where we started three years ago, movement on hedging instruments.
The closing net debt compares to a daily average of 184m 2016: 119m and a and relationships with customers in each of our markets are also fundamentally improved.
Where we have exited peak net debt of 243m 2016: 183m.
contracts during the year, we have done so with pride At the closing balance sheet date, our leverage for debt and excellence, mindful of the military adage that you covenant purposes was 1.4x EBITDA 2016: 0.7x, which judge a battalion as much by how it leaves its barracks, as compares with the covenant requirement to be less than by how it arrives.
Where we have started new operations, 3.5x and remains well within our medium term target which have involved the transition and recruitment of range of 12x.
several thousand employees, again I am pleased with the 36 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements skill of our operational managers.
Where we are making In December 2017, we also signed a Business Purchase losses on contracts, we are resolute in still delivering Agreement to acquire a portfolio of selected UK health what is required of us to appropriately serve our facilities management contracts from Carillion plc, and customers and service users: and while doing so, working have subsequently signed a revised agreement with the to improve the financial performance of individual Special Managers and Provisional Liquidators of Carillion: contracts.
Three years on, it is reassuring to note how whilst it is subject to requisite third party consents, we accurate was our initial estimation of the total level of continue to work with all relevant parties to give effect to onerous provisions required.
achieving the transfer of the contracts.
If it is executed as envisaged, this transaction would significantly increase Similarly, delivering cost savings at the same time as the scale of our equivalent Health business, and would investing in and improving the business is challenging, add around 1bn to our orderbook.
but this has also been paramount to ongoing transformation.
We achieved our savings target for Serco employs including our joint venture operations 2017, and the cumulative reduction of over 100m from over 50,000 people, the vast majority delivering services efficiencies in central support functions and overheads to customers.
Motivating and engaging employees is is equivalent to approximately 24% over the last three absolutely central to our business, and will be a key years.
Our guidance, as set out in more detail below, determinant of demonstrating we have successfully includes that we expect Underlying Trading Profit to implemented our strategy.
The latest results of our grow over the next two years, and this will be driven global employee survey, managed independently largely by further transformation savings.
Over that by Aon Hewitt, and with some 31,000 responses, period, we are in particular looking to transform our showed a fourth successive year of improvement in IT systems, capabilities and structures.
This means the aggregated measure of employee engagement.
not only reducing their cost, but also improving their During 2017, we also delivered many other elements performance and security.
We are implementing to build capabilities and support our ambition to be further operating model changes to deliver greater the best-managed business in our sector.
Some 200 efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation: there out of 300 senior managers have completed our highly will also be increased contribution to savings from the tailored Oxford Sad Serco Management course.
We transformation of the finance function and centralising have rolled out Continuous Improvement training to all expertise for reporting, forecasting, planning and managers and embedded it as part of onboarding new analysis with a third party provider, and seeking staff, and over 1,400 employees are now trained to more additional rationalisation of disparate procurement advanced levels.
And we have further invested in our spend across the Group.
Contract Management tools such as apps that monitor contractual obligations and report in real time, our Our ongoing transformation of the business involves Learning Management System for tracking training and further strengthening of our sector propositions, qualifications, and our Serco Management System which building differentiated capability, and capturing covers all aspects of a contracts lifecycle, processes business development opportunities to enhance our and compliance requirements.
As previously reported, we are using Centres of Excellence CoEs for Group-wide Contract awards, order book, rebids and pipeline propositions and capabilities in our core markets, which Contract awards are improving the sharing of skills, best practice and The Group signed contracts with a total value of intellectual property across Serco.
3.4bn during the year 2016: 2.5bn, which was another year of strong performance.
This is the largest Whilst demand across our markets has not been as order intake since 2012, and represents a book-tostrong as we anticipated at the time we announced bill ratio of approximately 115%.
There were over 30 our strategy in 2015, the availability of value-adding contract awards worth more than 10m each, and acquisitions, be they of companies or of contracts, the large value of new business won resulted in this presents an opportunity to increase our scale and being approximately 70% of the total value signed, capabilities which was not foreseen in 2015.
In our with the balance represented by the value of secured US defence business, the acquisition of BTP Systems extensions or rebids of existing work: the latter was also for $20m adds deep skills in satellite communication an abnormally small balance by virtue of there being a and radar engineering technical services, which relatively small amount of contracts coming up for rebid complements our existing service offering, and also or extension during 2017. brings with it a pipeline of new opportunities of $200m.
37 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued The largest new contract signed in the year was to Order book operate the New Grafton Correctional Centre NGCC The Groups order book now stands at an estimated in New South Wales, which, when completed, will be the 10.7bn, up by 0.8bn versus a year earlier.
There is largest correctional facility in Australia: the estimated 2.4bn of revenue secured in the order book for 2018, total contract value to Serco over a 20-year term is equivalent to around 85% visibility of our 2.9bn revenue approximately AUD2.6bn equivalent to approximately guidance at current exchange rates.
The second largest new contract was with book is 1.6bn for 2019 and 1.2bn for 2020.
University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Rebids Trust to transform catering and cleaning, with an estimated value of 125m over the ten-year term.
Through to the end of 2020, across the Group there are around 60 contracts in our order book with annual The third largest was in the Americas division to deliver revenue of over 5m where an extension or rebid will US Army base modernisation services and in particular be required, representing current annual revenue of IT support, valued at a total of $140m for the five-year approximately 1.4bn in aggregate or approaching base period and five one-year option periods, with half of the Groups 2018 2.9bn revenue guidance.
the fourth also in the US to provide three Navy Fleet This proportion of revenue that requires securing at Readiness Centers with supply chain management some point over the next three years is not unusual services for hazardous materials, valued at a total of given our average contract length of around seven years $101m for the base period and four one-year option or approximately ten years on average on a revenueperiods.
Smaller new bids won included environmental weighted basis, as larger contracts typically have longer services for Rushmoor Borough Council, contact terms.
Contracts that could potentially end at some services support in Australia for the Department of point by the end of 2018 have aggregate annual revenue Human Services, facilities management to a financial of around 500m, with the higher amount versus recent services company in Abu Dhabi, safety service patrol years driven in particular by the US Affordable Care Act for the Texas Department of Transportation, and contract becoming due for full rebid this year, and with numerous US Navy ship and shore defence equipment the next largest being Northern Isles Ferries.
In 2019, it modernisation task orders.
increases to around 700m, with Australian immigration services, the Dubai Metro, one of our US Navy Of rebids and extensions secured, the largest was installation contracts and COMPASS all due for rebid for NHS Forth Valley to continue providing facilities or potential extension.
In 2020, it is around 200m, with management services for a further seven years, followed PECS the only particularly large contract anticipated to by the US Patent & Trademark Office USPTO for a become due in that year.
Others of note included contact services for Hertfordshire County Council, specialist Pipeline scientific and engineering support for the European Our pipeline is tightly defined as new bid Space Agency, facilities management at the Cleveland opportunities with estimated Annual Contract Value Clinic in Abu Dhabi, fleet services for Louisville ACV of at least 10m and which we expect to bid Gas & Electric Company, air navigation services in and to be adjudicated within a rolling 24-month Bahrain and Iraq, environmental services for various timeframe.
The Total Contract Value TCV of individual London boroughs, traffic camera support in the opportunities is capped at 1bn.
The definition does Australian state of Victoria, and support to passenger not include rebids and extension opportunities, and information services for the Western Australia Public on average over the last five years, more than half TransportAuthority.
of our order intake has come from opportunities outside the reported pipeline.
It is a relatively small Win rates by volume were over 50% for new bids and proportion of the total universe of opportunities, over 90% for rebids and extensions.
Win rate by value many of which either have annual revenues less than was around 25% for new work, with the benefit from the 10m, or are likely to be decided beyond the next 24 sheer scale of the Grafton win being offset by the loss months, or are rebids and extensions.
It should also be of the other big opportunities in Middle East rail and remembered that in the Americas division in particular, UK immigration escorting: the win rate by value was we have numerous arrangements which are classed approximately 90% for securing existing work.
as IDIQ Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity which are essentially framework agreements under which the customer issues task orders one at a time: 38 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements whilst the ultimate value of such an agreement may Risks associated with Sercos trading environment be very large and run over many years, a value is only Last year, we reported on the risks around our trading recorded in our order book as individual task orders environment, and focused on the possible impact of are contracted, and few of them would appear in the Brexit, instability in the Middle East, and lack of clarity pipeline as they tend to be individually less than 10m in the US following the election of President Trump.
and contracted on short lead times.
None of these risks has markedly reduced in the last Following several years of decline, at the start of twelve months: in terms of Brexit, our business directly 2015 the pipeline stood at around 5bn and began serving European bodies which accounts for around 5% to grow again, increasing to 6.5bn at the start of of Sercos revenue is unlikely to be greatly affected, as it 2016, and stood at 8.4bn at the start of 2017.
During is served by EU-resident companies.
We believe Brexit the year, around 7bn has come out of the pipeline, may have an impact on labour cost and availability predominantly due to: wins, such as Grafton prison in the UK if EU citizens cannot come to UK to work in which was capped in the pipeline at 1bn and essential frontline service roles.
The greatest impact Southampton NHS Foundation Trust: losses, such as for us is that UK Central Government is largely focused those in Middle East rail, UK immigration escorting upon the overwhelming need to manage Brexit, which and a US Navy systems support opportunity: as well has been described by the Head of the Civil Service as due to a small number of other opportunities being as the greatest peacetime challenge ever faced by the removed such as immigration services in the US.
A Civil Service, and it is clear that their priority is going number of new opportunities have now matured to the to be focused in this direction for several years to stage where they meet our pipeline definition, adding in come.
However, in the medium term the repatriation of aggregate around 3bn over the course of the year.
As swathes of regulatory functions may lead to important a result, the pipeline currently stands at 4.4bn, which opportunities, and many of our largest customers consists of around 25 bids that have an ACV averaging most notably the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of approximately 30m and a contract length averaging Justice and the Home Office still have pressing needs around six years.
to reduce costs and increase efficiency.
In the services industry in which Serco operates, In the US, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act or pipelines are often lumpy, as individual opportunities Obamacare, and associated contracts such as ours can be very large, and when they come in and out providing eligibility processing services to those of the pipeline they can have a material effect on seeking health insurance, will continue in some form, reported values.
In 2017, a number of unusually large although the promised expansion in Defence spending bids travelled through the pipeline, and, as anticipated, is yet to be seen.
Disappointingly, there are few signs immediately replacing these has been challenging in of resolution in the dispute between Qatar and other the prevailing market conditions.
A lower pipeline is states in the Middle East.
not a matter of undue concern: growing our pipeline However, since last years report, in addition to the should not be expected to be a smooth progression risks set out above, the UK public sector outsourcing given the effects of the timing and scale of individual market has in recent months been thrown into turmoil awards, and we expect profit growth in the next two as the result of the collapse of Carillion, and the years to be driven by transformation savings.
However, crystallisation on some contracts of very significant risks progress beyond the next two years will require seeing which government had transferred to suppliers.
This has improvements in the trading conditions across our reignited the debate about the wisdom of government markets which will need to be first evidenced by a outsourcing to private companies the delivery of public pipeline that is growing once again.
services, and we suspect that this will become a theme Key opportunities in the pipeline are described further in the next General Election.
There is a very real risk that in the Divisional Reviews.
this will make the UK Government more than normally cautious in dealing with its suppliers.
On the other hand, it may make them more inclined to deal with suppliers who have established a track record for strong delivery, prudent accounting and who have a robust balance sheet.
The possible consequences of these events are examined in more detail under Industry Backdrop and Concluding Thoughts, below.
39 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Guidance and outlook We anticipate a further small Free Cash outflow.
After the cash outflow on exceptional costs, and the Our guidance for 2018 and outlook beyond is acquisition consideration for BTP Systems, we anticipate unchanged from that initially provided in our update closing accounting net debt to increase to 200250m, on 13 December 2017. equivalent to leverage for covenant purposes in the For 2018, we expect that Underlying Trading range of 1.52x EBITDA.
Profit will grow to around 80m, on revenues of As noted in our previous announcement regarding the 2.82.9bn i. e. broadly flat organic revenue growth potential acquisition of health facilities management on a constant currency basis.
We therefore expect contracts formerly operated by Carillion plc, the effect some improvement in margins, driven largely by of this transaction is not included in any of our guidance transformation savings.
Our guidance reflects latest at this stage.
currency rates, which now imply greater pressure from adverse currency impacts estimated at 56m for profit Looking further ahead, we expect 2019 to be a year of and 100120m for revenue when compared to further good growth in Underlying Trading Profit, which the average rates for 2017. is again likely to be driven by additional transformation savings.
The rate of growth thereafter will be more As we have noted before in regard to our previous dependent on our ability to grow revenues.
The guidance, we reiterate that the range of potential Strategy Review announced in March 2015 set out a outcomes is significantly wider than that implied by long term ambition that the business could grow in line our budgets central case, both to the upside and with a market which was expected to expand at a long downside: this reflects Sercos relatively low margins term trend rate of 57% a year and deliver margins of and the sensitivity of our profits to even small changes 56%.
Our margin ambition was predicated on three in revenues and costs, as well as movements in currency.
conditions: first, reducing costs as a percentage of sales: Furthermore, and as described in more detail in the second, containing losses on onerous contracts and Divisional Reviews, the outcome of new bids in our converting a number of them into profitable contracts pipeline and in our progress securing extensions or on rebid: and, thirdly, increasing margins by growing rebids including that for the Affordable Care Act in the revenues whilst bearing down on overheads.
We remain US, could have a material impact on our business both broadly on track on costs and onerous contracts, but in 2018 and more so the following year.
some markets, and in particular the UK, are currently The 2018 financial year will be the first to be reported growing more slowly than their former trend rate.
We under the new IFRS15 accounting standard.
As previously can and will partly compensate for a weaker organic disclosed and reflective of the prudent accounting revenue outlook through increased actions on the cost practices adopted in recent years by Serco, we do not base, and our long term ambitions of 57% revenue anticipate the impact to be significant as set out in growth and 56% margin remain intact, but the timing Note 2 to the Groups consolidated financial statements, of achieving this will be dependent upon when demand the estimated restatement to 2017 is to decrease revenue reverts to historic levels in our target markets.
by 3m and Underlying Trading Profit by 0.3m.
IFRS15 will be potentially of more relevance to the Group in relation to the accounting for new contracts rather than those already in place at the time of adopting the new standard.
The changes brought about by IFRS15 on previous percentage of completion accounting is expected to have little impact on Serco as this form of accounting has never been of particular relevance to Serco.
However, if Serco enters into future contracts that have significant transition phases, this could result in a greater proportion of revenue and profit being recognised later on in the life of the contract than under previous accounting.
The UK Defence Fire & Risk Management Organisation DFRMO contract, which we are currently bidding, is one such.
40 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Industry backdrop and concluding thoughts How has this situation arisen?
In one sense, this is the market at work, with a tendency for the balance No plan ever survives first contact with the enemy of advantage to move between buyers and sellers in was a phrase first coined by the military strategist accordance with supply and demand.
In the 90s and Helmuth von Moltke in the 19th century.
So far, Sercos 00s, Government was keen to enlist the support of three-stage plan Stabilise Transform Grow, which private sector companies to improve the efficiency we conceived in late 2014, has survived contact with and productivity of public services, and many new the flow of events surprisingly well.
After a period of opportunities came to market: the Government was decline, our profits have started to grow again: we have feeling its way and trying to develop new contracting re-established our reputation for operational delivery: structures such as Private Finance Initiatives which we have kept our promises to our customers: our had never been tested before, and was sometimes portfolio of onerous contracts is running off in line with outrun by more sophisticated and canny suppliers, the expectations we set in 2014: we have had a strong who were double-digit revenue growth a year with year of order intake in 2017: and we are taking steps to strong margins, cash flows and returns on capital.
improve margins to take us to more normal levels, even As is the way of markets, this strong growth attracted if weak demand will probably mean it will take us longer new competitors, many from abroad or from other to get there.
We are not yet able to resume dividend sectors.
As is also the way of markets, the flow of payments, but our pension schemes are fully funded milk and honey did not last indefinitely.
and our balance sheet is robust.
Around 2010, the balance of power in the market began Into this generally positive scene of Sercos own to turn.
Government introduced austerity and sought progress has intruded a traumatic event in the form to reduce expenditure, the supply of new work slowed, of the collapse of one of the UKs largest suppliers of just as new competitors entered the market.
At the public services, Carillion.
Quite apart from the usual same time, Government started to hire poachers and miseries associated with the bankruptcy of a major made them its gamekeepers, and in recent years has company, it has put at risk the supply of a number of improved its commercial and contracting capabilities sensitive public service contracts and caused the UK beyond all recognition.
Feeling compelled to deliver the Government distraction and expense.
Not unnaturally, growth they had promised, suppliers competed fiercely this has reignited the already-glowing embers of for a reducing pool of new business: prices fell, and the debate about the desirability of allowing private a newly-savvy Government discovered it had anxious companies to deliver public services.
This cuts to the suppliers prepared to accept risks and contract terms heart of what we do: the UK is Sercos home market, which in normal conditions they would not have agreed and accounts for around half of our revenue, and to.
Sophisticated buying techniques were imported understanding recent developments is high on the from the private sector: contracts for sensitive public agenda of many investors.
services such as caring for asylum seekers were awarded It must be stressed that the UK Government successfully to the lowest bidder by online auction.
As margins fell, buys some 200bn of goods and services from private suppliers shrank their capital employed and increased companies and charities each year.
There are over their debt: some made assumptions in their accounting one million people employed by the private sector which had the effect of pulling forward reported profits: delivering services to Government, and the vast majority some used opaque financing facilities and extended the of this work is delivered to a high standard.
Huge payment terms to their suppliers to make their reported benefits have been delivered by private companies cash flow more nearly match the stretched profits.
At and charities providing public services which are both the same time, falling interest rates and increasing efficient and innovative.
Nevertheless, the collapse longevity sent pension deficits soaring.
So in a matter of Carillion stands as a reminder that since 2010 a of a few years, a sector which previously had delivered significant number of businesses supplying Government healthy returns and supported well-capitalised balance services in the UK have suffered very large losses, sheets became under-capitalised, over-leveraged, and Serco included, and that all is not right in the market operationally and financially fragile.
Given the amount for Government services in the UK.
of contractual risk suppliers were carrying, that fragility was going to show itself sooner or later.
41 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Serco was the first major UK public services supplier to In the short term, the situation may offer opportunities reveal the consequences of carrying those risks.
In 2014, to companies such as Serco which have already we had to take 447m of onerous contract provisions re-financed their balance sheets and focused to reflect the cost of contractual commitments we on developing the strength and depth of their had made, and in total some 1.3bn of provisions and management.
But this is no time for schadenfreude.
Fortunately, our banks Sercos interest lies in seeing the market restored and shareholders backed our decision to stand by our to health as soon as possible, where suppliers have commitments to our customers, and we raised some the confidence to invest in bringing innovation and 700m of equity and a further 250m from disposals efficiency to help Government rise to the challenges to make our balance sheet robust.
Since then, few of providing what it so badly needs, which is more suppliers in the sector have escaped unscathed, but public services, of higher quality, at lower cost.
And Carillion is the first major bankruptcy.
Government needs to feel confident that it has a choice of strong suppliers, who it can trust to deliver and stand Does this matter?
Over 12,000 companies go into by their promises, and who have balance sheets robust insolvency in a year in the UK, so why should Carillion enough to sustain them through the lumps and bumps be of such concern?
The reason is that the nature of inherent in the delivery of large and complex contracts.
public services contracts are that they often involve the delivery of services of national importance that need We believe that recent events present an opportunity to operate 24 hours a day.
Hospitals cannot operate for both Government and its suppliers to work together without cleaners and caterers: courts cannot operate to construct a new approach to the provision of public without prisoner transport: defence bases cannot services which will avoid the problems of the past.
operate without air traffic control.
The security of supply There is broad consensus that public service provision of these contracts is a matter of national importance should be a mixed economy of the state, not-for-profit and a proper concern of Government.
organisations, and the private sector: and also that the provision of public services should not be completely How did we get into this position?
The answer is: exposed to the harshest rough-and-tumble, boomnobody is blameless.
Company managers and directors and-bust cycle of a totally free market where the should have remembered the adage that no deal relative powers of either buyer or seller may become is better than a bad deal: and that over-optimistic unbalanced.
Few people believe that the delivery accounting judgements, or flattering reported cash of public services should always be a monopoly of flow, will always be found out in the end: and that employees of the state.
The question is a practical one pension deficits were not a temporary aberration but a of how to make the procurement of public services, liability that needed to be addressed.
And for its part, whether delivered by the state itself, by not-for-profits, Government has used its position as a monopoly buyer or private companies, work better.
to push companies, large and small, into accepting contractual terms and risks that they could not Serco will be contributing energetically to this conceivably manage or hedge.
Sooner or later, some discussion, and we will be proposing four principles of those risks were bound to crystallise, and when they which we suggest should govern relations between did, suppliers delivering vital public services would be Government and its suppliers, be they public bodies, mortally wounded and even become functionally or not-for-profit organisations or private sector companies.
formally insolvent, which would not be in the interests We should strengthen transparency in public of either taxpayers or service users.
This means that for large contracts Where will the market go next?
Clearly, both for public services, which are not commoditised, Government and suppliers should take time to consider which do not impinge on National Security, and carefully the implications of recent events.
Suppliers which do not include significant amounts of will likely become much more wary: there will be fewer intellectual property, the presumption should be new entrants: existing players may shift the balance in favour of open-book accounting, in which the of their attention towards other markets, if they can.
Cabinet Office and National Audit Office can see The UK Government runs the risk of being offered less the suppliers accounts of major contracts, whether choice and innovation, less competition and higher risk they be performed by public or private operators.
And efforts to encourage small and medium There should also be far greater transparency of sized suppliers into the market are likely to be set back, operational performance: except in exceptional as they see what has happened to some of the large and circumstances, suppliers, be they private or strong companies who supply Government.
Government-owned, should be required to publish 42 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements every six months their performance against key It is vital to the well-being of any country that public services are delivered to high standards and offer operational indicators, so they are held accountable value for money, and for the most part, in the UK, for the delivery of their promises to the taxpayers private and third-sector providers have done a who are paying for them and the users who they good job of doing this.
The UK has hundreds of are serving.
And we believe that there should be a new hospitals and schools, built and maintained formal, rigorous and transparent decision-making to high standards: thousands of contracts have process by which Government decides what delivered innovation, improved services and lowered mechanism it should use, be it in-house or by a costs, along with far higher degrees of visibility of third party, to deliver a given project or policy.
operational performance than is commonly available We call this the Transparency Principle.
And as the UK advances Both suppliers and the Government should have towards Brexit, it is clear that there will be the need the right, on payment of an agreed break fee, to for a whole lot more Government as we take back exit a contract at pre-determined intervals.
With this in mind, we believe that there is this the Orderly Exit Principle.
The purpose of this an urgent need to re-think the relationship between is to give both Government and supplier the ability to the UK Government and its suppliers.
We believe an exit contracts which are not working out as intended.
approach based on the Four Principles above would For instance, if the supplier is making greater than serve to restore trust and common sense in the market: expected profits, or Government policy changes, remove the risk of excessive profits or losses: and encourage a more vibrant and competitive market for or performance is unsatisfactory but still within the Government services, one in which Serco would be an bounds of the contract, the Government should enthusiastic participant.
be able, on payment of a break fee, to re-compete or take back in-house the contract: and likewise if the supplier was making unexpected losses, or changes in regulation had made it impossible to deliver the contract as intended, the supplier can exit the contract on payment of a fee which would compensate the Government for the cost of retendering.
This would, for both Government and supplier, significantly reduce the risk of being stuck Rupert Soames together in unhappy marriages.
Group Chief Executive Suppliers of sensitive contracts should be obliged Serco and proud of it.
to lodge with Government a living will, being a set of arrangements to facilitate the transfer of a contract back to Government or to another supplier if required.
This would significantly reduce the operational risk to Government of supplier failure.
This is the Security of Supply Principle.
Government and suppliers should agree to abide by a mutually-agreed code of conduct, which would set out expected standards of behaviour from Government and its contractors.
This would involve the Government agreeing not to impose punitive or unfair terms and conditions or transfer unmanageable state risk: and suppliers would agree to maintain certain metrics of financial stability: pay their subcontractors in a timely fashion: and adequately fund their pensions.
We think it would be important to have a process of independent arbitration built into the code of conduct to ensure that there is some avenue of redress and calling to account those who do not abide by the code.
We call this the FairnessPrinciple.
