12 Strategic report Chief Executives review John Phizackerley Financial performance Dear shareholder, Chief Executive During 2017, we have seen the benefit of thediversity of our product portfolio and On 31 December 2016, Tullett Prebon geographic footprint and this has enabled acquired the Global Broking and usto deliver a resilient performance in a Information Business of ICAP plc, creating lowinterest rate, low volatility environment.
TPICAP, the worlds largest interdealer broker.
As a result, 2017 was a year of Underlying operating profit was 263m, 10% significant change, growth and achievement higher than the pro forma for 2016 of 240m for our new firm and our employees.
and underlying operating profit margin of 15.0% is 0.8 percentage points higher than TP ICAP has a unique position at the heart in2016 pro forma.
Underlying earnings ofthe worlds financial and energy markets, andearnings per share were 184m and providing liquidity and data to a broad 33.3pence per share compared to 188m anddiverse array of market participants and 34.0 pence per share pro forma for 2016. including banks, asset managers, hedge funds and energy and commodities firms.
Reflecting costs of the integration, statutory operating profit was 102m, 44% lower thanthe pro forma for 2016 of 181m and statutory operating profit margin of 5.8% is 4.9 percentage points lower than in 2016 pro forma.
Statutory earnings and earnings per share were 87m and 15.8 pence per share compared to 128m and 23.2 pence per share pro forma for 2016.
Integration progress A key driver behind the transaction that created TPICAP was the identification of synergies inherent in its combination.
At the time of announcement of the transaction we estimated this to be 60m per year with the full run-rate to beachieved over three years.
This has subsequently increased to a stretch target of 100m per year to be reached by 2020.
The majority of thesesavings come from support and infrastructure areas.
Launching the integration was our top priority in 2017 and by the end of that first year we achieved annualised run-rate savings of 52m per year.
We started the integration by appointing aunified senior management team made upof the best people from the two firms.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 13 TP ICAP ended 2017 a larger, stronger and more confident business.
Our Group is more diverse in product offering and client reach than ever before.
To read our Financial Single leaders for divisional, functional and Global Broking is the largest contributor to and operating corporate support areas were key to providing revenues and profits in the Group.
Our focus review see p1835 early clarity and direction to the organisation.
is very much on increasing productivity At the same time, we moved quickly to through a range of initiatives including constitute our governance structures, adopting and leveraging technology, committees, policies and procedures.
We have selective new hires, active management of created single support functions in Finance, underperformers and a few selective desk Legal, Risk, Compliance and HR, successfully mergers to leverage stronger relationships co-located support staff and removed and liquidity pools where appropriate.
Wehave migrated our finance We provide our customers with efficient systems on toa single general ledger andeffective ways of trading via multiple platform, rationalised ourinternal approvals protocols, such as Central Limit Order processes, brought inglobally aligned Know Books CLOB, Volume Matching, Crossing Your Customer andanti money laundering Solutions and Request For Quote RFQ.
policies, and consolidated our swap execution facilities SEFs from three to two.
We have The Electronic Markets team is an integral also embarked on the process of reducing the part of the Global Broking division and is large number of redundant legal entities in responsible for improving hybrid platform the new combined corporate structure.
functionality, developing pure-electronic services, and enhancing our clients In 2018, we are moving to phase 2 of workflows.
In 2017, our electronic Volume theintegration programme which will Matching platforms were functionally takeus increasingly from integration to enriched and deployed into new products transformation.
Not only do we aim to globally, resulting in record traded volumes combine the infrastructure platforms of the and revenues were up 30% year-on-year.
two businesses but we seek to optimise and Welaunched an RFQ platform for FX transform our operations to create a more Options, delivering a hybrid workflow with efficient and scalable corporate function effective price discovery and the ability to infrastructure.
We will increase our disseminate liquidity to the market through capabilities and headcount in our Support an Applications Programme Interface API.
Services Centre in Belfast as part of this programme.
We also plan to extract Our brokers remain vital to our clients and efficiencies from procurement and from key to our success and we focus on retaining ournon-compensation expense base.
Whileaverage broker pay-outs as a percentage of commissions In mid-2018, we will move in to our new US declined again in2017, actual revenue Headquarters in Lower Manhattan where all andcontribution per broker rose.
our New York brokers will be located under one roof.
In addition, our combined UKTP ICAP is the worlds largest Energy & based Energy & Commodities team will be Commodities broker with offices in 20 housed in a single location in Londons West locations globally and coverage of a very End.
There are other office moves planned broad set of products across three brands including a new London office in early 2019.
Tullett Prebon, ICAP and PVM.
It also has ourmost diverse customer base, with nearly Business development 90% of its revenue coming from non-banking Our business lines are organised into four clients, such as commodity producers and global divisions Global Broking, Energy consumers, refiners, energy companies, &Commodities, Data & Analytics and utilities, hedge funds, asset managers and Institutional Services and they all have trading companies.
inherent growth opportunities in 2018. www.
com 14 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued Change has been a consistent theme Average revenue per broker is the highest in The implementation of MiFIDII is also throughout the year, and supporting our this division.
In January 2018, we acquired increasing demand for unbiased OTC pricing employees by providing formal training has SCS Brokers, a US-based oiland softs data.
We are investing in our data sales helped equip them with the skills to achieve brokerage company.
We are consolidating capability and how we make those sales.
Aswe continue seven back office deal management systems We are also looking at increasing the range toimplement specific integration targets into one global platform.
As in other parts of and pace of new product development such as right-sizing the Group, we have our business, we invest in technology, taking andweare exploring the possibility of endeavoured to be open and fair.
opportunities to deploy innovative solutions collaborating oncreating OTC indices to give our clients the best service.
We havecreated an employee representation products underpinned by our data feeds.
forum in London called involve and have In 2017, the Coalition survey of major bank During 2017, the Institutional Services division mechanisms in place to consult and revenues noted that commodities revenues added agency FX, FX options, listed futures communicate with our staff.
By the end of have reached their lowest levels since 2006 and options, and rates to its range of flow 2017, we achieved alignment across our main because of ongoing weakness in energy products.
The division is also working closely centres for key health benefits medical, life products, lower volatility, reduced client with clients to develop and provide structured assurance and income protection reinforcing activity and trading underperformance.
product solutions, such as asset backed loans, the importance of equitable treatment and Despite this difficult environment, we property derivatives, and secondary trading emphasising the importance we attach to retained our leading position.
With our of hedge fund, private equity and real estate wellbeing at TPICAP.
diversified portfolio of businesses we are investments.
We see great potential to grow Conduct and culture well-placed to take advantage of any our breadth of activities in this division and We take every opportunity to emphasise increased market activity.
our acquisition of COEX Partners in November theimportance of conduct and culture at is an important part of this strategy.
The We plan to continue to grow our presence alllevels of the Group.
With regular company provides execution services in listed through recruiting more brokers.
At the communication we promote our agenda futures and options and FX, and brings more sametime, we will continue to make the using events such asformal Town Halls, than 50 client facing employees with strong business more efficient and continue to informal listening sessions and regular customer relationships.
COEX has recently invest in our platforms.
expanded its product range to include equity derivatives in the US.
We are enthusiastic about the prospects for At the end of 2017 all TP ICAP employees our Data & Analytics business because it were required to watch a bespoke video This year, our focus will be on adding stands to benefit from rising demand for called Respect@Work which clearly set out morebreadth and depth to our footprint independent pricing products.
We already the Companys expectation for how people inEMEA, expanding in the US, and represent the broadest global coverage in should interact and treat one another and evaluating potential bolt on acquisitions.
proprietary neutral OTC data, generated what they should do if they see anything byour execution divisions, and we see People contrary to this in theworkplace.
Training theopportunity to add value through We invested in and engaged with all our employees on our standards and compliance enhancingthis existing dataset.
Retaining, recruiting and with our policies is ongoing.
cultivating a diverse and talented workforce We also have the potential to reach a remains a key objective for the Group.
In 2017, we published a new Culture and widercustomer base through the use of Wecontinued our multi-year recruitment Conduct Monitor.
In 2017 we continued campaign to bring in the next cohort of elements of our culture and we will issue it toinnovate, rolling out new services and brokers.
In June 2017, weconducted our first twice a year.
products across a wide spectrum of asset engagement survey as TP ICAP, achieving Finally, we continue to embed strong classes.
We added a pricing product in a70% response.
Understanding employee discipline in performance management Government bond strips for GBP and EUR.
sentiment across abroad array of issues has through our annual year-end appraisal We have added pricing products for the allowed us to prioritise actions and shape process for corporate support staff, liquid natural gas markets.
andforour brokers we have instigated Performance, Conduct and Bonus forms which assess non-financial factors tied to our core values of Honesty, Integrity, Respect and Excellence.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 15 Case study Breaking the mould in recruitment At TP ICAP we are not afraid to do things This selection methodology is blind to Link to our strategy differently.
gender, ethnicity and academic background 1 9 10 and is based purely on the key attributes of We have moved awayfrom standard an individual and the needs of the business.
Cityhiring methods tohelp find the next generation of talentby investing in an In 2017, we held Academy Days in London EarlyCareers Programme ECP, open and New York, receiving over 2,000 tocandidates fromall backgrounds.
applications globally and hiring 36 trainee brokers.
The hires have a broad range of The ECP applicants undergo two stages of skills and backgrounds including school screening and profiling before we select a leavers, graduates and ex-military.
final group to take part in a Recruitment andAssessment Academy Day.
Here, The ECP is part of our commitment to hopefuls take part in a series of skill-based inclusive hiring, and we look forward to tasks, a final interview and Q&A panel.
welcoming more new joiners in 2018.
To read more, visit our website.
com 16 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued Awards Corporate responsibility MiFID II has a broad impact on many facets We were pleased to win a number of industry We know society has increasingly high of the functioning of European markets, awards during 2017, including Global expectations of us.
We also know thatour including the trading in OTC products.
The Capital Overall Broker and Overall Interest employees, and the next generation, care directive requires the trading of some OTC Rates Broker of the Year, Credit Derivatives deeply about the sort of company they want financial instruments to take place on a Interdealer Broker of the Year, and Data and to work for.
multilateral trading facility MTF or an Analytics Vendor of the Year.
These awards organised trading facility OTF the latter Inter-dealer broking has always been an are an endorsement of the strength of our isa new type of venue that covers hybrid areawhere talented individuals can flourish, offering, and testament to our commitment broking activity.
These venues resemble and itis our responsibility to ensure we cast to excellent client service.
the net far and wide when looking for, Wereceived regulatory approval for all 11 Looking ahead anddeveloping, new talent.
We call this ofourvenues in 2017.
TP ICAP ended 2017 a larger and stronger AVoice for All.
Our Group is more diverse in product TP ICAP is a leading liquidity andmarket Our emphasis on corporate social offering and client reach than ever before and data provider in many major OTC asset responsibility and good corporate this positions uswell to manage the cyclical classes.
MifID II requires market participants citizenship means welook for opportunities and divergent nature of the markets and to pursue best execution.
We are confident to help our communities and inform those sectors we serve.
Ifirmly believe that we will that our venues will become the go-to hubs who want to participate.
For example, continue to play acentral role providing for the best liquidity, keenest pricing and the employees are given two days paid liquidity at the heart of the global financial required data and analytics, assisting in volunteering leave a year, and we make and energy markets enabling them to trade thisbest execution obligation.
The cost funds available to support their personal effectively and transparently.
andsophistication to provide institutions charitable fund-raising efforts.
ICAP has a with this value-chain requires significant Looking forward, political and economic strong record in charitable support, and on resources.
We believe that liquidity will factors are likely to continue to affect asset 5December, held the 25th annual ICAP gravitate towards themarket players who prices and volatility during 2018.
This long-established and can handle this complexity and make this present numerous opportunities.
With a clear well-loved tradition sees us come together level of investment.
As a result, we are strategy and sustained focus on operational across the globe to raise money for good confident thatMiFID II strengthens our excellence, I am confident TP ICAP will causes, while also having a great deal of value-proposition as a market infrastructure continue to be resilient and successful.
As usual, the team participation was playerand venue operator.
This year we welcomed a host We are a truly international and culturally of celebrities and our guest of honour, the Brexit diverse business, employing people to Duchess of Cornwall, to our offices in Our work to prepare for Brexit has been provide first-rate services and expertise hampered by political uncertainty which London, and events were held in locations toour clients.
I would like to thank everyone persists into 2018.
As a result, we have around the globe.
We raised more than at TP ICAP for their hard work in 2017, and nowmoved from analysis and planning, 4.7m for this years chosen charities, hope they will take pride in the business they todecisions and action without a full bringing the grand total wehave raised helped create, and in the futuresuccess we understanding of the final outcome of the overthe last 25 years to nearly 140m.
negotiations between the UK Government MiFID II andthe EU.
We already have an extensive John Phizackerley The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Continental European footprint including Chief Executive II MiFID II is a European Union lawthat branches and subsidiaries, premises and 13 March 2018 provides harmonised regulation across the front office and support staff that service EU Member States with the aim of increasing clients from Frankfurt, Paris, Amsterdam and competition and protection in investment Madrid.
We are now in talks with a number services.
Preparing for MiFID II, which came in of European financial regulators to establish to force on 3 January 2018, was a major what we and they require should TP ICAP workstream for TP ICAP during 2017 and the base its post-Brexit European hub in one of culmination of several years of investment their locations.
During the coming year, we and effort in many corporate areas.
will need to do what is necessary to ensure we can provide uninterrupted service to our clients after Brexit and seek to avoid any consequential reductions in trading volumes.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 17 Case study tpMATCH a record breaking performance TP ICAPs clients enjoy access to a more than $2 trillion of USD forward rate Link to our strategy broadrange of electronic, pure voice agreements FRAs executed simultaneously 3 5 6 andhybrid solutions operated by our between almost 100 clients.
Operating across several different asset Tullett Prebons tpMATCH, which helps classes and currencies, our team of tpMATCH clients reduce future floating rate product experts construct accurate  rate portfolios by market curves at that moment in time, usingalgorithms that calculate risk whiletheir Global Sales colleagues contact accurately, is one of thoseavailable.
clients and solicit portfolios of the asset classor currency they would like to offset.
In June, the multilateral electronic trade matching system executed the largest ever This landmark dollar FRA run was a perfect bulk risk mitigation, in notional terms, by example of how our client relationships anyprovider since the beginning of the combine with TP ICAP technology to To read more, tradedetail reporting regime.
The run saw providesolutions that enhance the liquidity visit our website.
