Strategic Report | Group Chief Executives Statement Group Chief Executives Statement 2017 was a challenging year for Centrica.
Ourperformance in the second half was weak, particularly in Business energy supply.
This, combined with uncertainty around However, Centrica Consumer delivered Globally, the energy system is becoming ourfuture prospects in UK energy supply, robust performance with adjusted operating more decentralised, customers are significantly amplified by the Prime Ministers profit down only 1% despite the impacts of becoming more powerful because of announcement in October that the UK warm weather, the UK Government preincreased choice, and technology is Government would pursue a market-wide payment tariff cap, competitive intensity accelerating the pace of change.
These price cap of the Standard Variable Tariff SVT andinvesting for growth.
trends, which we identified when we and other default tariffs, resulted in a launched our new strategy in 2015, are even Despite the setbacks, the foundations of our significant fall in our share price in 2017, clearer today and are playing out in line with businesses remain strong.
We believe our particularly over the fourth quarter.
We are in step with business model is and will continue to be where the energy world is going and the Some of the drivers were clearly beyond our resilient, even under the pressures we face.
services which our customers desire.
But clearly we regret the outcome Our strategy is clear.
It is founded on an donot believe that anything has happened and the impact it has had on our shareholders analysis of market trends and sources of since 2015 to invalidate our strategy or the and on our employees.
I am determined to growth, on our own capabilities and the core strengths of the Company.
restore shareholder value and confidence.
efficiency necessary to pursue them profitably.
The underlying trends driving our strategy As a result, Centrica is focusing more Centrica is an energy and services company.
are clear, as are the distinctive capabilities investment on the customer-facing Our purpose is to provide energy and we have to benefit from them.
We are also becoming simpler services to satisfy the changing needs of our committed to delivering attractive returns as an organisation.
We now have only three customers.
This is the core of the Company and growth over the medium term.
Our focus divisions, Centrica Consumer, Centrica and we have been supplying energy and today is on performance delivery and financial Business and Exploration & Production services to customers since 1812.
We are discipline on demonstrating top line growth E&P.
Each has a clear participation strategy re-emphasising and returning to that core.
as we deliver improved service and new and strategic framework.
The reason we have However, it is not 1812, the needs of propositions for our customers, and driving established Group-wide Consumer and customers are indeed changing, and as efficiency as hard as possible to underpin Business divisions is that we have found wedeliver for them the propositions we our competitiveness.
thatcustomer needs are very similar globally, offermust change too.
and they are seeking more than simply Although we delivered our 2017 published energy supply.
targets in terms of operating cash flow, cost efficiency and headcount reduction, capital discipline and net debt, our financial results were disappointing.
Adjusted operating profit at 1.25 billion was down 17%, earnings were down 22%, at 698 million, equivalent Our focus today is on to 12.6 pence per share.
Adjusted operating performance delivery cash flow was 2.07 billion.
EBITDA of andfinancial discipline 2.14billion was down 9%.
on demonstrating top We delivered a disappointing result in our North America Business operation.
This line growth as we deliver wasboth in terms of the performance of improved service and ourpower supply book and from a charge relating to historical revenue recognition newpropositions for our inone of our billing systems going back to customers and driving 2013.
Performance in UK Business energy efficiency as hard as supply was also poor.
Adjusted operating profit for Centrica Business as a whole was possible to underpin down 67%.
Iain Conn Group Chief Executive 6 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 What we are doing is not a radical departure We have also seen the number of British Gas However, given the prospect of default tariff from our roots: it is a natural extension services accounts deliver the first year of cap legislation we are taking a number of ofwho we are and what we are good at.
Accounts grew by steps to reduce our relative exposure to price Through installing boilers, heating systems 77,000 in the second half, reversing the fall caps and their impact on Centrica.
We will and their controllers we have always been we saw in the first half.
In addition, 700,000 reduce our exposure to a cap, using our inthe home energy management business.
customers have so far signed up forBritish recent efficiency to continue to price Our development of Hive, starting with the Gas Rewards, enabling us to enhance competitively and to drive further cost digital thermostat and the intelligent boiler, therelationship and proposition forour reductions.
We had 4.3 million customers isthe next phase in the evolution of home loyalcustomers in combination with our onSVTs at the end of 2017 and we expect energy management and a direct extension other offers.
toreduce this to 3 million by the end of this of our in-home services business.
yearas the measures described above take In our customer businesses, our goal is to effect.
Secondly, as a result of our own cost We are finding that consumers want these focus on value, not volume, retaining and efficiencies and other actions to date, propositions and are willing to pay for them.
engaging our customers while continuing ourcurrent SVT is cheaper than 85% of We are also finding that many customers todrive costs down to maintain margins.
themarket and is 41 a year below the value receiving these services from the same Thisiswhat we will concentrate on across average SVT of the large suppliers.
Thirdly, provider as their energy supply.
The same the Centrica Consumer portfolio as we our efficiency programme will deliver an principles apply to our business customers.
extend the propositions we can offer our additional estimated saving of 20 per dual The new propositions and services we have customers with the goal also to stabilise and fuel customer by 2020. developed are not a distraction or somehow grow thetotal number of relationships we unrelated to our legacy businesses.
Webelieve we can continue to make Taking all of this together, and recognising at the heart of what our legacy offerings have progress, even in the face of further price that the formula for any potential cap is not to incorporate and what the most valuable regulation in the UK.
yet known, we believe that we can deliver customer segments are demanding.
asustainable energy supply business in As we have made clear, we do not support theUK with healthy returns under most In our Consumer division, revenues have price controls in competitive retail energy conceivable scenarios.
been stable and unit gross margins are markets and we believe they will not attractive.
We did see a fall of 1.35 million ultimately benefit customers.
We believe Turning to Centrica Business, we have customer accounts during 2017.
We have price caps will reduce competition and continued to develop our business across made active choices on which channels choice, and prices tend to ultimately the five pillars of our divisional strategic andcustomer segments we are seeking converge around the cap level.
We find that in addition to the toengage, retain and serve.
We do not like toimprove the market our focus is on commodity offerings of energy supply and losing any customers but most of these increasing customer engagement, driving energy wholesale, business customers customer accounts generated very low cost efficiency, improving service levels, wantaccess to more distributed energy gross margin and were loss-making at the onrewarding loyalty and on delivering generation solutions, and we are moving operating profit level.
from building large central power generation plants to many smaller distributed units.
In contrast, while we have seen some losses Last year, we announced a package of Ourcustomers want combined heat and in higher value accounts, in 2017 we were actions and proposed measures to reform power units, solar arrays and the grid successful in encouraging a net approximately the UK energy market for the long term and operators want distributed power systems 700,000 UK energy accounts from the really benefit customers, without the need for and technology to assist with the optimisation price controls.
At its heart are our decision to SVTto our fixed-term tariffs.
We have seen of local energy markets and micro-grids.
material growth in newservices and withdraw the British Gas SVT and our call for Along with this, customers want to be able relationships.
We saw 18%growth in the UK Government and the regulator to ban togain insight from their energy use to save protection plans in the US.
InConnected this sort of rolling tariff across the industry.
money and improve their operations, Home we saw cumulative installed hubs We will introduce new, attractive fixed-term including in preventative maintenance.
propositions including fixed-price, online only grow by 71% to 900,000 over 2017.
We Customers who have distributed energy exceeded our target of 1.5 million products and bundled tariffs.
We will introduce a new assets want to be able to optimise them sold.
Connected Home continues to grow default tariff and increase choice to try to andare willing to pay for optimisation inall of our energy supply geographies, and avoid people going onto a default tariff in the services rather than do it themselves.
our first international partnership with Eni first place.
Allied to a greater range of choice for customers and simpler bills, we think gase luce in Italy will see its full commercial We have responded to these needs by launch in April.
these measures will be far more effective developing capabilities in all of these areas, inimproving the market for customers than both organically and through targeted Our Local Heroes scheme has grown rapidly anyprice caps.
acquisitions of Panoramic Power, ENER-G from its launch at the beginning of lastyear.
Cogen, Neas Energy and REstore.
We have We now have 7,000 tradespeople signed also expanded our distribution and sales up, backed by our guarantee, and wehave capability and built a new marketing platform now completed over 25,000 jobs.
This onfor business customers under the brand demand offer continues to accelerate and it Centrica Business Solutions.
complements our own contract relationships through British Gas.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 7 Strategic Report | Group Chief Executives Statement We have also disposed of our large gas fired Energy stronger and more sustainable and additional 700 million across 2016 and 2017 generation plants and our two large wind we will now target further consolidation.
We in the customer-facing businesses.
This has farms and continued to shift our portfolio to would be open to having a lower ownership enhanced our capabilities and technologies, more distributed assets.
We have converted percentage in a larger entity, provided our net leaving us well positioned to capitalise on some sites to peaking plant and have several E&P exposure remains broadly unchanged consumer trends.
projects underway to build new gas fired and we retain sufficient influence to shape We have been successful in reducing costs.
rapid response generation sites, as well as the strategic direction of the business.
We We have delivered our 750 million cost constructing a battery storage facility which would therefore also be prepared to own less efficiency programme three years early.
is one of the largest in Europe.
We also aim than 50% of Spirit Energy if the right Wehave also set out plans for further to divest our shareholding in UK nuclear opportunity came along.
significantcost reductions, totalling an power.
Subject to ensuring alignment with We also concluded that our Rough storage additional 500 million a year by 2020, which our partner, and being very mindful of UK asset was no longer capable of safe injection will release more savings to support our aim Government interests in this area, we would operations due to its age and condition and of becoming the most efficient price setter hope to achieve this by the end of 2020. that, because of the economics of seasonal for our chosen propositions and brands.
The business customer is also on the storage and the cost of refurbishing or We have reduced our net debt to less than moveand we are responding to their needs.
rebuilding the facility, neither pathway would 2.6 billion, in the lower half of our target end Theywant more than just commodity be economic.
We therefore decided that we 2017 band, and our credit metrics are at levels energysupply, and the new capabilities can no longer operate Rough as a storage currently required for the strong  we have developed once facility and have now received all relevant grade credit ratings that we aim for.
again reinforce the core of the relationship.
consents and approvals to extract the As we look forward to 2018 20, although The returns in value-added services tend recoverable gas from the reservoir.
In the wehave still got some portfolio development tobehigher than in pure commodity past, Rough has made a vital contribution to complete, the focus is on performance energysupply.
tothe nations security of supply.
But today, delivery and financial discipline.
In the UK is fortunate in benefiting from a The big message, therefore, whether in performance terms, it is about growing diverse range of energy sources.
Centrica Consumer or Centrica Business, grossmargin through our customer isthat the new propositions and services Centrica is halfway through a six-year strategic relationships, and driving the next phase wehave developed are at the heart of what repositioning of the Company and I would ofcost efficiency.
We will also be focusing Centricas core offerings in energy and now like to summarise what has been onimproving organisational effectiveness services now have to incorporate.
They are delivered during the first phase since 2015. and securing thecapabilities we need in at the heart of what important and valuable We have continued our reallocation of 2020 and beyond.
We must do all of this customer segments are demanding.
resources away from the asset businesses while continuing to deliver improvements Centrica has now developed the capabilities towards our customer-facing activities.
We insafety, compliance and conduct and in to offer them in a high-quality way.
We are have made divestments of over 900 million operational excellence across the Company, seeing improvements in the customer and reduced capital allocation to E&P by starting with customer service.
experience and the growth in demand 300 million per annum while investing an isfeeding through to revenues and at attractive margins.
Since we embarked on our new strategic direction we have made a number of Key events in 2017 acquisitions to provide the key capabilities we did not already have in-house.
These 13 January 20 February April acquisitions have all met, and in some Centrica announces Centrica launches new Hive thermostat casesexceeded, our expectations.
We have sale of its remaining innovations venture, introduced in US, and widened the footprint of the Group beyond wind farm joint venture Centrica Innovations subscription model the UK and North America to serve launched in UK customers in 40 countries.
However, in the last three months of 2017 the risk envelope Read more on Read more on Read more on Page 45 for Centrica changed, and as a result, we will Page 15 Page 20 not be pursuing growth through major M&A activities.
This is because the uncertainty over the UK price cap is too great and we wish to maintain our hard-fought balance 2017 sheet strength.
We will, however, continue topursue smaller bolt-on acquisitions to 08 February 22 February 09 June build capability in key areas.
Centrica announces British Gas unveils Centrica agrees the In our asset businesses we have made global Consumer and Rewards, its major new sale of its Canadian divestments of over 900 million towards Business divisions loyalty programme E&P business the top of our target range and reduced capital investment into them.
Last year, Read more on wecombined our E&P operations with Pages 19 and 41 Bayerngas Norge AS, and the new business, Spirit Energy in which we hold a 69% stake began trading as an independent oil and gas operator.
Ourgoal is to make Spirit 8 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We will be targeting delivery, on average, The transformation of Centrica is also about growth with continuing to drive material of2.12.3 billion of adjusted operating the values which guide us as we go about levels of cost efficiency while maintaining cash flow per annum.
We believe this is our daily business.
In 2017 we launched a capital discipline and a strong balance sheet.
deliverable, even taking into account a new set of Group-wide values our Values It is this combination, our track record to potential price cap, for the reasons outlined of Care, Collaboration, Courage, Delivery dateand an excellent and committed team earlier.
But there remains a risk that a and Agility and in January this year we which give us confidence to pursue our particularly severe cap impact in the first launched Our Code, which replaces the medium-term goals of delivering growth yearmay put this target at risk for 2019. Business Principles and other codes of andreturns through satisfying the changing conduct within the Group.
We wanted As we continue to focus on financial needs of our customers, deal with the aclear, unified statement of the most discipline we will be limiting capex to no uncertainties posed by any default tariff important principles and expectations which morethan 1.2 billion per annum and capin the UK and indicate a stable dividend apply to all of us.
In essence, our Values targeting to maintain net debt within a outlook within defined boundary conditions.
and Our Code embody what we stand for.
Despite current It is undeniable that at present Centrica We hope that they will help all of us at pressures, we expect to continue to be able facesa higher level of external uncertainty.
Centrica make the right decisions.
to balance sources and uses of cash in 2018, Itis therefore imperative that we focus without materially affecting our ability to The transition we are making has not been onthethings we can control to underpin invest in the business and deliver on all easy for our team.
Our people have faced, ourperformance.
aspects of our financial framework.
and will continue to face, a number of new This is how we will rebuild shareholder challenges.
But they have shown extraordinary In terms of the dividend, we have indicated valueand confidence, and I am determined resilience, passion, commitment and talent, since 2015 that it would be linked to operating to demonstrate this through our actions, and I would like to thank each of them for all cash flow and we expect to maintain the onestep at a time.
their contributions over the past year.
current level of the dividend over the period 2018 20, subject to meeting our adjusted The first phase of our strategic repositioning operating cash flow and net debt targets.
We have strengthened the Webelieve we can manage within both these balance sheet, paid down debt, matched Iain Conn constraints under most scenarios based on oursources and uses of cash, and refocused Group Chief Executive our current projections, but clearly, there are resources and capability towards the 21 February 2018 always risks associated with extremes of customer.
But we are only halfway through commodity price movements and regulatory asix-year repositioning and we must stay interventions.
We would intend to restore a thecourse.
progressive dividend only when, in addition The next phase to 2020 is all about to the criteria already mentioned, underlying performance delivery and financial discipline, cash flow growth capability is demonstrated.
as we marry customer-led gross margin 12 June 01 August 14 November 11 December Centrica announces British Gas extended price freeze ends: Centrica announces Spirit Energy launched, national roll-out of increases electricity prices on the expansion of following completion of industry-first Local standard tariff by 12.5% but protects its Connected Home Centrica and Bayerngas Heroes most vulnerable customers from the rise business into Italy Norge E&P joint venture Read more on Read more on Read more on Pages 21 and 41 Pages 20 and 42 Pages 15 and 46 spirit-energy.
com 2017 2018 21 June 03 November 20 November 12 December Centrica announces sale Centrica acquires Europes Centrica sets out CMA terminates ofLangage and South leading demand response proposals for UK Roughundertakings Humber Bank gas fired aggregator REstore Energy Market reform atCentrica Storage power stations Read more on Read more on Read more on Pages 28 and 44 Page 18 Page 47 centrica.
com energy marketproposal Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 9
