08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 CEOs strategic overview We are optimistic about what the future holds and expect to make John Fallon further progress in 2018.
Chief Executive The global opportunity Our diverse global customer base shares Dear shareholders, common values of wanting to have more Globally, there continues to be a In 2017, in a challenging trading control of their futures in an increasingly tremendous opportunity in education.
environment, we made an adjusted uncertain world.
We can enable them to The estimated global spend is 3.6tn per operating profit of 576m at the top end do that by helping drive better engagement year.
Currently only 2% of that spend is on of our guidance range and we reported and by helping learners realise the true digital but we expect that to grow.
But what adjusted earnings per share of 54.1p.
economic value of education and how it does digital, look like in effective practice?
We continued to invest in the digital helps them make progress.
Our focus is on It means moving to a world of better transformation and simplification of the giving the next generation of learners the learning anywhere, anytime, with real time company.
We have further strengthened confidence to be successful no matter feedback driving better outcomes and our balance sheet, ending the financial year what they do.
Read more on our approach more meaningful learning experiences.
We expect to make to creating value for all our stakeholders further progress in 2018, and over the next on p2021.
It means better understanding not just what three years, we will start growing again, works, but how it works and in what context.
It is with this in mind that Pearson is in a sustainable way.
That is what our commitment to efficacy accelerating its move to digital.
We are and reporting on the impact of the use our Returns to shareholders creating products and services to help products on learning outcomes is about.
people teach, learn and grow in new and As a result of our strong cash flow We made that commitment in 2013 and, powerful ways, while fostering a culture generation and proceeds from the further as promised, this year we release audited of continuous innovation that will ensure simplification of our portfolio, we launched efficacy reports.
We are listening to the we stay relevant over time.
Through this a 300m share buyback during 2017, challenges and opportunities faced by transformation, our products will deliver: which was completed on 16 February 2018, teachers and students, and designing and repurchasing a total of 42.8m shares developing products based on learning and Better learning.
Our technology inspires at an average price of 700p.
This was data science all with a focus on helping more personalised, flexible and engaging accompanied by a significant cut in the them achieve the outcomes that matter learning that delivers better outcomes dividend.
While difficult, this ensures that most.
Technology has changed how, Anywhere, anytime technology.
Our we can continue to invest in the business when and where learning takes place.
technology gives people the freedom to drive long-term growth and a sustainable With our scale and resources, brand and and flexibility they crave, giving them and progressive dividend going forward.
commitment to digital, we are in a unique the control over when, where and how This will enable us to deliver value for position to make a significant mark on the they learn our shareholders.
Our innovative online Put simply, we need to give flexibility products and services provide real-time to students, arming them with the personalised feedback so that teachers opportunities to learn in modern, innovative and faculty can see where they might need ways, so they have the foundational to adjust their lessons, and learners can knowledge and the 21st century skills focus where they need to.
to not only adapt but succeed.
This focus on understanding the evolving needs of learners and on innovating to anticipate and meet those needs drives everything we do.
Source: Citi GPS: Global Perspectives & Solutions, July 2017.
Section 1 Overview 09 09 CEOs strategic overview Our strategy Our business More effective teaching and CONTENT ASSESSMENT personalised learning at scale Powered by services and technology Our strategy and priorities Our mission at Pearson is to help people make progress in their lives through learning.
To deliver our purpose, we have Our strategic priorities a vision to be the trusted gateway to lifelong learning.
Grow market share through digital transformation In order to deliver on this vision, there are 1 three areas of focus: Invest in structural growth markets 2 1.
We will grow share through the digital transformation of our courseware and Become simpler and moreefficient 3 assessment businesses 2.
We will invest to build our businesses in structurally growing markets See Our strategy, p13 more quickly 3.
We will simplify our company to be more efficient and to deliver a much better However, we are making good progress in Fostering complex skills: using machine experience to our customers.
shifting the business from ownership to pay learning to improve and accelerate essay for use, which is a much more viable and grading and student feedback in US higher We need to leverage our core strengths sustainable model.
We are doing this by education courseware in content and assessment powered by ensuring the business is significantly more services and technology to bring more Personalised pathways: providing adaptive digital, prioritising access to content over effective teaching and personalised practice and learning in maths and ownership and transacting more product learning at scale.
the sciences in US higher education directly to consumers and institutions.
Last courseware January, we lowered the price on thousands Gain share through our digital of eBook rentals, and we also launched a Intelligent tutoring: partnering with IBM transformation new print rental programme.
Our Inclusive Watson to embed tutoring dialogue into This will help us satisfy changing learner Access model gives convenience and better our courseware products to help students consumption preferences and transition value to students and is a direct-towhen they need it most our assessment businesses to deliver institution model that allows students to Natural Language Processing: fewer, smarter tests.
have materials for their course on day one.
partnering with Microsoft Research Asia The single biggest opportunity to gain share We are building a Global Learning Platform, to integrate AI capabilities into English through our digital transformation is in US which is a single, cloud-based platform language learning curriculum in China.
higher education courseware, which makes thats highly scalable and more reliable, up 28% of product contribution.
These and allows us to innovate faster and support profits have declined over the last few a lifelong learning ecosystem for hundreds years due to the challenges we face in this of millions of learners.
business, which will continue for the next We also know that getting to market more couple ofyears.
quickly and improving our agility will help us win.
To that end, we are making a record level of investment in our business each year over 700m annually to drive and scale innovation at Pearson.
Some recent examples include: 10 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 CEOs strategic overview Invest in structural growth markets Online Program Management, which Looking ahead helps colleges and universities take Our second strategic priority is to invest We are optimistic about what the future their programmes online and improves in structural market opportunities.
holds and expect to make further progress access for learners who cannot attend a That means investing and growing share in 2018.
At the same time, we know that we brick-and-mortar school.
in our fastest-growing businesses across will continue to see challenging headwinds Pearson, such as: in US higher education courseware for the Become a simpler and more next few years, and weve planned for that.
efficient company Professional Certifications Pearson VUE, We will offset these headwinds by the which helps more than 450 credential Our third strategic priority is to become broader 70% of Pearson that is stabilising owners across the globe develop, manage, a simpler and more efficient company, or growing, by creating further cost deliver and grow their assessment phasing out dated technologies and efficiencies, and by the strength of our cash programmes.
systems, eliminating duplication and flow generation and our balance sheet.
Virtual Schools Connections Academy, It wont be easy, and it will take time.
which provides high-quality online As many of you know, we removed more However, I am confident that we will deliver education for c. 78,000 K-12 students than 650m in cost between 2013 to 2016. because no other learning company can in the US.
In 2017, we announced our plans to deliver match our scale, investment and expertise, another 300m in cost savings over a which includes the incredible, missionEnglish language learning curriculum, three-year period by further simplifying driven talent at Pearson that each day instruction and assessment, including our technology, increasing the use of shared helps people make progress in their lives our fast-growing Pearson Test of English service centres and standardising our through learning.
Academic, the only fully digital test which processes.
This will reduce Pearsons offers a convenient way for people to Thank you for your ongoing support of employee base by roughly 3,000 roles but, demonstrate their English language Pearson.
more importantly, it will improve the way we proficiency as a gateway for other operate as a company and respond to the opportunities.
needs of a changing educational landscape.
John Fallon Chief Executive Future Employment of skills in 2030 Preparing people for the jobs of the future is core to Pearsons mission of helping people make progress in their lives through learning.
Clearly we need to re-evaluate the skills A student entering formal education today employers and individuals will need but we will be making decisions about his or her career also need to update education systems, better by the year 2030. support teachers and create effective new tools That is why in 2017 Pearson partnered with to support future teaching and learning.
The Nesta and the Oxford Martin School, on a future will be marked by lifelong learning, research project designed to advance the and we cannot afford to leave anyone behind.
conversation about the future of work past This research provides an optimistic blueprint fears of automation.
Offering the most for reforming education for the needs of this comprehensive research on this topic to date, it better predicts how major societal and rapidly changing future.
economic trends and the interactions For Pearson, this is a significant opportunity.
between them will affect the future of work, Our hope is that employers, education systems and the skills needed to succeed in the future.
and policymakers will collaborate to redesign Along with technology, factors such as jobs, retrain individuals and encourage greater globalisation and climate change are changing skills development in order to make a future our economy and our labour market.
This economy and world where more people can presents challenges, but also creates an flourish and make meaningful progress opportunity for real change.
com Section 1 Overview 11 11 CEOs strategic overview Executive team John Fallon Chief Executive Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer Albert Hitchcock Chief Technology & Operations Officer Anna Vikstrm Persson Chief Human Bob Whelan President Pearson Assessments Bjarne Tellmann General Counsel & Resources Officer Chief Legal Officer Giovanni Giovannelli President Jonathan Chocqueel-Mangan Chief Kate James Chief Corporate Affairs & Growth Markets Strategy Officer Global Marketing Officer Kevin Capitani President North America Rod Bristow President UK & Core Markets Tim Bozik President Global Product
