Chief Executives statement Taking stock When we listed in 2015 we said there were supportive market fundamentals and opportunities for Ibstock.
It has taken over 100m of planned investment in infrastructure, brand, innovation and people.
Weve achieved a lot in three years and theres more to come.
Wayne Sheppard, Chief Executive Officer Revenue 452m Adjusted EBITDA 120m Statutory reported profit 74m Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 08 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information industry as a standard option: however it has been mandatory for all new plant in We said Ibstock for several years.
We would build a strong I believe this is an example of Ibstock continually pushing the boundaries to protect our employees.
For 2017 we introduced the reporting of causes for concern CFC by all employees to identify and correct hazards And here is how we did before an accident occurs.
We have targeted two reports per person per year this year.
to increase awareness in the working environment.
During the year, over 3,500 CFCs were reported and corrected and whilst increasing awareness, this initiative must have also reduced the potential for accidents to occur.
I believe this is reflected in our 2017 LTA performance.
Invest At the time of the Groups initial public offering IPO, we advised that we believed the fundamentals underpinning growth in our UK markets looked robust and that we would invest in our businesses to support growth and cost efficiency.
We have Having announced my intention to retire in the founding members of the Ceramic subsequently invested over 100 million 2018, it is with mixed emotions that I write Industry Health and Safety Pledge in 2001 and delivered the major projects identified my last CEO statement.
I am, however, as part of an industry-wide commitment and more.
delighted to be able to report significant to engage in a process of continuous Our new roof tile line at Leighton Buzzard headway in each area of the Groups improvement in health and safety.
commenced commissioning in late 2016 strategy during 2017, continuing the strong The initiative is managed by the British and has improved its performance during progress made since the business listed in Ceramic Confederation BCC and has 2017.
Take-up of these innovative new tiles October 2015. won significant recognition from the has been good with the major developers UK Governments Health and Safety The Group has grown revenue and who have appreciated this new capacity Executive HSE and is seen as a model adjusted EBITDA in both 2016 and during coming to the market at a time of need.
the year ended 31 December 2017, with We have not said much publicly about revenue growth of 4% and adjusted I am pleased to report that our revised an investment in our Supreme Concrete EBITDA growth of 7% in the current year.
measure of all lost time accidents LTA Company to further automate the employees and those working on our The Groups statutory results are production of general cast concrete sites, such as contractors, reduced from discussed in the Financial Review on products.
Our first machine to a bespoke 20 to 18 during the year ended pages 38 to 42. design was commissioned in 2017 and 31 December 2017.
This 10% reduction has been very successful in increasing This years Annual Report focuses on the marked a significant year-on-year productivity, reducing manpower Groups strategic progress since our listing improvement.
This is particularly pleasing requirements and eliminating manual and some of the individuals who have as the measure includes the many handling.
We intend to invest in further enabled this.
Our strategic achievements contractors on our sites engaged with the machines over the coming years.
in the areas of Health and Safety H&S, construction of our major projects during investment and innovation are described the year such as the new brick factory and Construction of our new Leicester brick below and within our Strategy section on the blue brick kiln.
At times this amounted factory is complete and we commenced pages 22 and 23. to several hundred additional people on making bricks and commissioning towards our sites every day.
Early in 2018 the first fired Succession planning has always been bricks exited the kiln ready for despatch a high priority for us, including my own, We continue to work hard in this aspect of to customers.
This has been a massive as I will reach the age of 60 in 2019. our business as we strive to achieve world project to deliver and I am pleased that we Having considered the best time for my class performance and drive LTAs to zero.
achieved it with only one lost time accident own succession, I advised the Board that Ibstock has driven the development of over the entire two-year build programme ideally I would like 2018 to be my last year intelligent mobile plant to operate on our involving several million man hours.
as CEO with the third anniversary of the sites to protect our employees and IPO coming in October 2018.
I am As you will see from my remarks in the visitors.
These fork lift and clamp trucks delighted that Joe Hudson joined Ibstock Business Review section see pages 16 are able to detect objects behind the in early 2018 to allow a thorough handover and 17, the timing for our investment in truck when reversing and apply brakes of responsibilities see inset on page 14. additional brick capacity has been superb.
automatically, thus avoiding a collision and We have designed an excellent range of Safety making reversing operations much safer.
A business which looks after its employees As well as the increased safety of our bricks that we will progressively prove and is a business that thrives and a key element employees, contractors and visitors, commission the new factory as 2018 is ensuring the well-being of our team.
there is an added benefit to the Group progresses.
The range has been designed H&S continues to be our highest priority of reduced stock damage and building to target imports and the factory has also and we continually work to drive improved maintenance.
This technology was been designed to be exceptionally flexible performance in this area as we have done co-developed with mobile plant supplier and make a very broad range of types and for many years.
Ibstock Brick was one of partners and is now available across the styles of brick.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09 Chief Executives statement continued We said Investment in people is at the centre of the Groups service delivery.
And we continue to run thousands of training days each year for our employees.
Its all about the people John Tolley Cage Shop Operative, Anderton Concrete John has worked for Anderton Concrete for over 40 years and says it is like a family to him, especially as his son and two of his grandsons also work for the Company.
John with his son and two grandsons.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information We said We seek to introduce new products through innovation and new technology.
And we introduced the game-changing SL8 roof tile.
Its all about the people Mark Brind Production Director, Forticrete Mark may be relatively new to Forticrete having joined at the beginning of 2017 but he brings over 20 years experience employed within tier 1 automotive manufacturers.
Mark is at the heart of driving continual improvement and efficiencies in production as well as championing his team to be the best they can.
Gemini roof tile Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Chief Executives statement continued We said We believed there was a structural imbalance between brick demand and supply in the UK.
And we invested in our new soft mud brick factory in Leicester, which will have the capacity to produce an extra 100m bricks per year.
Its all about the people Tom Brooke Technical manager, Ibstock Brick Tom joined Ibstock Brick in September 2014 on the company Apprenticeship scheme as a mature Technical apprentice initially based at the Dorket Head factory and won the company Apprentice of the Year award that year.
Having transferred to the new factory in Leicester as part of the project team in early 2016 Tom has gone on to be promoted to Technical Manager in November 2017.
Soft mud brick Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information We said The Group seeks to maintain and develop lasting customer relations.
And we have won a number of supplier awards from our key customers since our IPO.
Its all about the people Julie Lee Northern National Sales Manager, Supreme Julie has worked for Supreme Concrete for 10 years and is passionate about customer service and developing long-term working relationships with her customers in the North.
The continued investment in the business and developing lasting customer relationships is what makes Supreme stand out from our competitors.
Floor beam Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Chief Executives statement continued In March 2016, we also mentioned an Innovate investment at our Ravenhead wire cut Innovation continues to be a priority brick factory to automate our fide-hacking for all businesses within the Group.
and packaging operations and this By continually seeking to improve our was commissioned on time and cost customer service and introducing new during 2016. products to our ranges, we can respond to our current customer or business Since our IPO we announced an 8 million needs, but also anticipate future trends.
investment to replace the blue brick kiln at Our innovation objectives will increase the our Lodge Lane plant.
This project was Groups efficiency and continue to support completed in 2017 and is at an advanced increased profitability.
stage of commissioning with blue bricks being produced to meet customer demand.
As mentioned above, two of the biggest innovations are supported by our major These investments are very exciting but investments in the new SL8 and PAN8 Ibstock is a long-term legacy business and roof tiles and the new brick factory to we have also continued to invest in the make a range of new and exciting bricks.
Groups long-term future in a number Indeed, our new brick factory includes of ways: some significant innovations in the clay We have acquired substantial additional brick manufacturing process, such as clay reserves at two of our sites to support a tunnel dryer for soft mud bricks.
the continued development of the business Glen-Gery, our US brick subsidiary, and also maintained planning permission has developed two new ranges of for an additional concrete products factory laminate stone products to complement at one of our sites to support further our brick ranges.
These products are the strategic growth when required.
new StoneFit system and Creative To prepare for the future we have Mines range of laminated stone and will Chief Executive designate continued to invest in our people good increase our offering in the residential examples being our continuing apprentice cladding market.
programme with 34 apprentices under Supreme Concrete has developed a new training and the roll out of training range of fencing products allowing the initiatives to our wider workforce fencing range to be repositioned at various amounting to over 9,000 training days price points.
Additionally, several senior appointments were made that reinforce The Ibstock Kevington components the strength and depth in the Company business has developed a brick clad teams, and the formation in 2017 of the underslung soffit a brick clad Group Executive Committee see overleaf component for non-residential buildings positions us well for the future.
called Nexus that fully came to market Wayne Sheppard welcomes our in 2017 and has been received as a very We have commenced a project to new Chief Executive designate innovative new product by architects and implement the JD Edwards ERP system specifiers alike.
Once implemented, I am delighted that Joe Hudson joined all UK businesses will be on a common IT Amongst our targets for the future are to Ibstock in early 2018.
Joe has very platform allowing a common Customer ensure our brick ranges continue to satisfy relevant experience in building materials, Relationship Management CRM system traditional RMI markets and that we develop most recently with Lafarge Holcim where to be implemented to support the new ranges to meet the more fashionable he was responsible for their UK cement, extraction of further commercial synergies non-residential and developer markets.
Bradstone paving and concrete block from the UK businesses in the future.
With experience of Brexit manufacturing with high capital cost plant We continue to work to redeploy our I am regularly asked about the impact of and the sale of aesthetic masonry and assets by enhancing the value of our the UKs withdrawal from the European commodity concrete building products, surplus land.
These activities have resulted Union Brexit upon our business.
The he is ideally experienced to be the next in considerable success over the past Group exports a very small proportion of CEO of Ibstock plc.
decade or more by improving the planning its products, but where it does, mainly to status of surplus land assets.
Recent Ireland, the devaluation of Sterling has activity is likely to lead to significant made our products better value for our additional cash flows and profits during customers.
Clearly the converse is true for 2018 and 2019.
These cash flows can imports with imported brick from northern then be deployed to the benefit of the Europe having become less profitable or Company and its shareholders.
competitive for the exporters which is also helpful to our business.
However, certain In 2018 our investment objective is to imported raw materials, such as deliver fully the benefits of the major reinforcement steel, have become more projects undertaken to date.
We expect expensive although this input cost impact significantly lower capital expenditure over is relatively small in scale, as we own the next two years, whilst over this time our primary raw material: clay.
Skilled we will be planning and developing for the employee availability, especially for skilled next potential capacity expansion and maintenance personnel is a concern.
However, our growing apprentice programme helps to mitigate any potential adverse impact.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 14 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Summary Supported by strong market We said fundamentals, Ibstock continues to follow a growth strategy underpinned by organic We would be reviewing growth opportunities in UK clay and concrete products.
We continue to look for succession planning of value-enhancing acquisitions, particularly those that would provide new platforms for growth and enhance our portfolio of Executive and Non-Executive principally residential building products.
In the US, the brick industry continues to Directors.
operate at low levels of capacity utilisation resulting in lower returns than we enjoy in the UK.
Against this backdrop, we continue to consider all options and And we have formed a new opportunities for our business.
We will shortly complete our CEO Committee as part of our succession plan with the business in a good position.
Profit performance and succession planning.
cash generation are strong and continue to improve.
Debt levels are at a 1x adjusted EBITDA after the substantial investments made since our IPO the full benefits of which are still to come.
The UK pension scheme has been well managed and this has allowed the Group Executive Committee Company to enter into discussions with the Trustees to accelerate the fide-risking strategy already in place.
Importantly, we have a highly experienced Group Executive Committee to provide continuity, manage the business, provide succession and support my successor.
We have a clear strategy and have outlined our capital allocation priorities, which are set out in the Financial Review.
Given our robust balance sheet and strong cash generation, in the absence of any significant value enhancing acquisitions and with continuing supportive markets, the Board currently expects to introduce a supplementary dividend alongside the interim dividend in 2018.
Finally I should like to thank all of my Ibstock colleagues for their hard work and commitment over many years that has been instrumental in the Groups strong performance.
It has been a pleasure to work with them all and I will miss them greatly.
With their undoubted continued support for my successor, the further progression of the strategy we have Committee members in addition to Executive Directors deployed and with the investments we have made, we have every reason to look Julie Bullock Mark Richmond Rob Hardgrave to the future with confidence.
Group HR Director Group Development and Group Chief Information Investor Relations Director Officer Darren Bowkett Operations Director, Greg Silvestri Ian Tichias Wayne Sheppard Ibstock Brick President, Glen-Gery Finance Director, Ibstock Chief Executive Officer Brick and Forticrete 5 March 2018 Mark Houghton John Lambert Managing Director, Managing Director, Supreme Concrete Forticrete Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
