Vesuvius plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives Strategic Review Our main objective is to accelerate the implementation  strategy over the coming years Patrick Andr Chief Executive intangibles and restructuring costs, capacity of the Flow Control EMEA Introduction plants and this ramp-up is now , 18.1% It is an honour to have been selected to ahead of prior year on a reported basis.
complete, substituting imports from lead Vesuvius and I am grateful to our non-EMEA plants.
Chairman, John McDonough, and the , Board of Directors for their trust.
however, have been even stronger in Improved Financial Position 2017 if we had not been impacted by I would also like to thank Franois Despite the strong growth in our turnover two temporary headwinds.
Wanecq for his exceptional commitment and increased capital investment of in leading Vesuvius over the past 12 years.
Some of the key raw materials used 44.3m in 2017 versus 35.2m in 2016, Thanks to his achievements and the by our Steel and Foundry Divisions our cash conversion ratio increased to efforts of all our teams, the foundations  104% of the Group are strong and sound.
2017, particularly during the second half working capital management.
Our trade Our main objective is now to build on of the year.
The speed of these increases working capital to sales ratio decreased these foundations and to generate was such that it was not possible to fully to 24.9% from 26.6% in 2016.  recover the increased costs through the  growth over the coming years.
, aswe reduced our net debt to 274.3m at were bound by contractual obligations The strong performance of the Group 31 December 2017 versus 320.3m with some customers.
We also partly improved towards the end of 2017 due implementation of this growth strategy.
 to prices stabilising for several key raw with the issuance of a 100m US Private materials and major progress being Strong Performance Placement,    higher selling prices.
Whilst the price of In a globally favourable economic going forward.
magnesite, the largest contributor to environment, both our Steel and Foundry , Divisions succeeded in outperforming Strategic Progress has now stabilised, the price of other the general market growth.
This was raw materials such as bauxite, silicon particularly the case in China.
Our strategy remains centred around carbide and zirconia are still on an , designed Thanks to this performance, Vesuvius upward trend.
As a result, the process to ensure the achievement of our core global sales in 2017 reached 1,683.9m, of price adjustment will continue into strategic objectives of delivering long-term, an increase of 20.2% over 2016 on a 2018, until realised cost increases have .
At constant currency, been fully recovered.
and adjusted for the effect of acquisitions, Each of these execution priorities saw Additionally, the very strong growth underlying revenue was up 12.5% as : of our Flow Control sales in EMEA compared with 2016.
Reinforce our technology leadership: temporarily exceeded the capacity of  With a global R&D spend of 33.2m in our manufacturing plants in the region, 165.5m, an increase of 24.2% over 2016 2017 2016:28.6m, representing requiring the import of products from our on a reported basis and 16.1% on an 2.0% of revenue, Vesuvius continues to facilities in Asia and NAFTA, incurring underlying basis.
Our return on sales  additional freight, export duty and improved from 9.5% to 9.8%.
After the larger R&D spend to sales ratio than overtime costs.
Measures were inclusion of amortisation of acquired most of our competitors.
In 2017, immediately taken to increase the Our Performance 19 we continued to focus our R&D efforts 60m of savings at a total cost of Our objective is to improve this on a reduced number of potentially 75m.
A completely new restructuring performance further year-on-year.
programme focused on the Foundry A new safety management organisation, The new Advanced Refractory R&D Division in Europe and NAFTA, the updating responsibility and accountability centre in Visakhapatnam, India, was Advanced Refractories business unit in for the management of safety across inaugurated in November, reinforcing Europe and global corporate functions the Group, was established at the end our presence in this key market for our was launched at the end of 2017, with of 2017 and will be fully operational in future growth, strengthening links with expected recurring savings of 15m by thefirsthalfof2018.
customers and enabling us to better 2020.
In parallel to these restructuring tap into the growing talent pool of programmes, Vesuvius is reinforcing Sustainability engineers and scientists in the country.
its focus on operational excellence The decision was also made to and continuous improvement in its Vesuvius R&D reinforced its efforts in reorganise the Flow Control R&D manufacturing operations.
2017 to develop products and services network around three main R&D helping our Steel and Foundry customers Develop our Technical Services centres:intheUS Pittsburgh, Europe to reduce their energy consumption and offering: Our Technical Services Ghlin Feignies andChina Suzhou, carbon footprint through the improved offering has continued to develop operating under a common leadership.
service life of our products and reduction in 2017, not only within our Digital This structure will be fully operational of waste in their manufacturing processes.
Services business unit but also within in 2020 and will enable us to increase At the same time, we continued our Flow Control, Foundry and Advanced , efforts to reduce waste and energy Refractories.
Late in 2017, we made a by reinforcing our proximity with consumption in our own manufacturing strategic investment in Sapotech Oy, customers and accessing a wider processes.
developing optical defect detection Outlook services in the steel continuous casting Increase penetration of our valuecreating solutions: The growth of sales process.
This investment will reinforce Our main Steel and Foundry markets the Flow Control business unit.
in our Steel and Foundry Divisions remain positively oriented at the outperformed underlying market beginning of 2018.
However, we expect growthinmostareas, confirmingthe Attracting, Developing and a lower growth rate of steel production mounting interest of customers in our outside China in 2018 compared to 2017, Retaining Talent advanced solutions, enabling them to  The success of our strategy ultimately  steel exports which occurred in 2017 may relies on the quality and motivation of whilst at the same time raising the not repeat in 2018.
Our self-help and our people.
manufacturing optimisation programme efforts to attract, develop and retain the We were particularly pleased with will continue to develop and expand in best talents worldwide.
This will intensify our progress in China, where Steel 2018.
The temporary raw material and in 2018.
Division sales increased by 7% and product supply headwinds that impacted Foundry Division sales increased by our 2017 results have now been mostly We believe in diversity of talents and 13% on an underlying basis.
mitigated and will substantially unwind origins and in the importance of an during the year, subject to any further entrepreneurial and decentralised Capture growth in developing raw material cost increases.
We remain culture, with empowered, accountable, markets: Steel Division sales grew  innovative and results-oriented faster than the market in the key working capital management and managers, operating close to our developing regions of China, India .
However, sales Forthesereasons, theBoardisconfident growth in Latin America, while positive, I will strongly support the reinforcement that in comparison to 2017, further strong was slightly below general steel of this culture within the Group going progress will be made in 2018. market growth.
outperformed markets in most Patrick Andr Chief Executive developing countries, with the Stable Safety Performance 28 February 2018 exception of India where priority was in 2017 given to the management of working capital and customer credit risk.
With a lost time injury frequency rate of 1.63 per million hours in 2017, our safety Improve cost leadership and margins: performance improved slightly over Our previously announced Lean and 2016 1.72. self-help programme to improve the  The Groups injury severity rate improved our manufacturing network continued more markedly in 2017 with a severity to develop in 2017, extending from rate of 62.8 days lost per million hours Flow Control Europe to Flow Control worked versus 74.6 days lost per million NAFTA operations.
16.2m of savings hours worked in 2016, highlighting the were delivered in 2017, bringing the success of the Groups efforts to address total savings delivered since launching the most dangerous situations in our the programme to 43.2m.
programme is expected to deliver
