Chief Executives Report Andrew Croft Chief Executive INTRODUCTION We have a clear and compelling I should like to begin my first Chief Executives Report by acknowledging the enormous contribution made by my predecessor David Bellamy.
David joined at the inception of the Company and has client proposition that I believe given 26 years of service to the Group, the last 11 as CEO.
It has been my pleasure to have worked alongside David over 25 of these years stands St. Jamess Place in great and as his Chief Financial Officer over the last 11 years.
I would also like to say that it is a great honour and a privilege to be taking on the role of Chief Executive.
stead to capture the market Looking forward, I fully intend to continue with our successful business model of providing trusted face-to-face financial advice opportunities ahead.
through the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
In doing so, we will continue to get better at everything we do well and improve those areas where we do less well, while refining and evolving our business so that the next 25 years for St. Jamess Place are as successful as the last.
We will continue to invest in our service to clients and in increasing our support to the Partnership.
I believe there are great opportunities ahead for St. Jamess Place.
Our core target market is already large and forecast to continue to grow, driven by favourable demographic trends and the accumulation of investable assets as savers take on the responsibility for providing for their own well-being in retirement.
Meanwhile, the environment for UK savers seeking to plan their long-term financial affairs has rarely felt more difficult, whether due to complexities around personal taxation, pensions freedoms or the Gross inflows implications of a sustained low interest rate environment.
As a result, demand for trusted, personal face-to-face advice has never been greater.
With our focus on developing long-term 14.6bn relationships that span client generations, our advisers can provide a 2016: 11.4bn level of tailored and expert advice that clients truly value.
Allied with our distinct Investment Management Approach that offers clients access to best-in-class fund managers from around the world, we have a clear and compelling client proposition that I believe stands St. Jamess Place in great stead to capture the market opportunities Funds under management ahead.
Indeed, we remain confident of being able to achieve 15 to 20% annual growth in gross inflows over the medium term.
90.7bn 2016: 75.3bn Full year dividend 42.86p 2016: 33.0p per share St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information We continue to enhance and evolve our client proposition.
In 2017, we BUSINESS PERFORMANCE AND DIVIDEND launched a new Retirement Account with added flexibility for clients During 2017, our 25th anniversary year, we achieved record gross as they move from accumulation of savings before retirement to inflows which at 14.6 billion were up 29%, whilst net inflows were up 40% to 9.5 billion reflecting the continued strong retention of drawdown of benefit in retirement.
We also introduced a cash management portal, a probate service as part of our existing client investments.
These net flows, together with a strong intergenerational initiative, a panel of private banks to serve our investment return, increased funds under management by 20% over higher net worth clients and a further range of savings accounts.
the year to close at an all-time high of 90.7 billion.
Against the backdrop of continued political and economic uncertainty that Looking ahead, a key opportunity and challenge for the wealth prevailed in the UK during the year, we are very pleased with these management industry over the long term will be how to sensibly achievements which are a testament to the strength of our business manage the generational transfer of wealth, which is forecast to total model, the attractiveness of our client proposition, and the hard work some 2.8 trillion over the next 30 years.
We have already made of all in the St. Jamess Place community.
good steps in developing our intergenerational proposition for clients in recent years, but this will continue to be an area of further focus The financial performance naturally reflects these outcomes with all the key measures the Board monitors also seeing strong growth.
Chief Financial Officers Report and Financial Review on pages 22 to In 2017, we won a number of awards that are voted for by investors 44 provide a comprehensive analysis of the financial performance including the City of London Wealth Management Company of the for the year.
Year Award, Shares Award Best Wealth Manager, Wealth Adviser Best Private Client Investment Manager and The Personal Of particular note was the 41% growth in the Underlying cash result, which is a key measure the Board considers when determining the Finance Award for Best Financial Adviser, the last of which weve won for eight consecutive years.
Thank you to everyone who voted dividend.
This outcome, supported by a small capital release, has for St. Jamess Place.
enabled the Board to increase the final dividend by 33% to 27.45 pence per share, which provides a full year dividend of 42.86 pence THE ST. JAMESS PLACE PARTNERSHIP per share, growth of 30%.
Partners and advisers build long-term relationships with their clients, This will result in an 80% full year pay-out ratio to Underlying cash firstly by providing trusted holistic financial advice to help them and our expectation is that going forward future dividends will be set achieve their personal objectives, and then by providing an on-going using this higher pay-out ratio.
advisory service to ensure they remain on track to achieve their financial goals.
The final dividend, subject to approval of shareholders at our AGM, will be paid on 1 June 2018 to shareholders on the register at the Our future growth is dependent upon increasing the number of close of business on 6 April 2018.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan advisers and helping our existing Partners grow their businesses.
continues to be available for shareholders.
It was therefore pleasing that during 2017 we grew the number of advisers working across the Partnership by 246, growth of 7%, CLIENTS whilst the new business per adviser increased by 19%.
These new Our success has been built on a core commitment to achieving the advisers comprised recruitment of experienced advisers from the best possible outcomes for clients and ensuring that they are well industry together with graduates from our highly successful served by our long-term, face-to-face relationship-based approach to St. Jamess Place Academy.
the management of their financial affairs.
Although in recent years We now have 3,661 qualified advisers and, going forward, we will we have seen the UK wealth management landscape evolve to incorporate new, digital-led solutions, we know that a highly continue to develop the infrastructure and support that we provide to Partner businesses to assist them with their client relationships and personalised service remains in high demand and are confident that to help them grow their businesses.
If we do this well, we will remain this will continue to be the case in the future as the management of the go to place for successful financial advisers and attract highly individuals financial affairs becomes more, not less, complex.
talented individuals to join St. Jamess Place.
At the same time, we In the past year, we have seen increased activity around pension will continue to invest in our Academy, which aims to grow our own transfers, driven in part by the flexibility afforded around defined advisers.
We look forward to seeing many of the 261 individuals contribution schemes following the introduction of pensions currently in the programme graduating in 2018 and 2019.
We will also freedoms but also due to increased transfer values.
Transferring out continue to support those advisers who wish to progress to of defined benefit schemes is not without considerable risk and Chartered status.
complexity which requires expert bespoke advice, so we have naturally been relatively cautious in recommending such a course of action, but we expect this to be an area of heightened interest for clients and one which we will continue to manage carefully in the years ahead.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 5 Chief Executives Report continued INVESTMENT MARKETS AND OUR INVESTMENT INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH As well as working to meet our shorter-term objectives as a business, MANAGEMENT APPROACH we have been sowing the seeds for longer-term growth through new The strong performance from major stock and bond markets around markets both in the UK and overseas.
This was despite the growing tensions around North Korea, conflicts in the Middle East and the St. Jamess Place Asia, which has been operating since 2014, continuing uncertainty in the UK arising from negotiations to leave continues to progress well.
We now have 120 advisers, an increase of the EU in March 2019.
The backdrop of strong corporate earnings 18% during the year, and over 400 million of funds under and high levels of consumer confidence drove many indices, management in St. Jamess Place funds, which has more than including the FTSE 100 and the S&P 500, to new highs.
We currently operate across three separate markets: Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore, each of In general our Portfolios performed strongly through 2017, with the which has its own distinct characteristics.
What is common to all, most cautious strategy, the Defensive Portfolio, increasing by 4.6% however, is the long-term market opportunity for a well-managed, and the higher-risk Adventurous Portfolio increasing by 12.6%, net of well capitalised, wealth management business with a strong client all charges.
In the past year we have made further operational Nevertheless, the continued strong economic environment creates progress on building our business and proposition.
the possibility of a return to higher inflation.
In the UK, inflation crept We have also been investing for the future through Rowan Dartington above its target level of 2.0% and, by the end of the year, recorded a RD, our discretionary fund management business.
In response, the Monetary Policy Committee of the under management grew by 34% to 2.1 billion, while the number of Bank of England increased interest rates for the first time in ten RD investment executives has increased from 41 to 46 as we have years.
Meanwhile, in the United States, the Federal Reserve broadened the reach of the business from its historic roots in the increased interest rates no less than three times.
Looking ahead, south west of England.
We have also launched an RD service in Hong there are expectations that rates will increase further in both the US Kong alongside our Asian operations.
Importantly, the capabilities and the UK during 2018.
Accommodative monetary policy is also provided by Rowan Dartington have served to enrich our overall slowing in other major economies, as quantitative easing client proposition.
programmes elsewhere in the world are beginning to be pulled back.
Neither St. Jamess Place Asia nor Rowan Dartington are expected Towards the end of the year, we announced the launch of a strategy to achieve critical mass or contribute materially to Group profitability investing in Japan a new opportunity for our clients.
There are in the short term.
Rather, it will take some time for these businesses signs that the corporate governance environment in that country to achieve scale as we build the appropriate infrastructure to support continues to improve and, in Nippon Value Investors, the Investment their long-term growth, but we remain confident they will generate Committee has identified a manager which gives us access to some value over time.
of the most interesting ideas in the worlds third-largest economy.
The start of 2018 has seen some volatility return to markets.
However, BACK-OFFICE INFRASTRUCTURE our broadly diversified Portfolios continue to give clients access to a We continue to make good progress on our important programme to variety of different asset classes, dampening down the impact of market consolidate our UK back-office administration onto a single gyrations as and when they occur.
It is for this reason we remain client-centric platform.
This will deliver a more holistic administration confident that our investment approach will continue to support clients service to our clients whilst leveraging modern technology.
in realising their long-term financial goals.
We already have 27.9 billion funds under management administered on the new platform and approximately two-thirds of our gross inflows are currently going onto the new platform.
Migrations planned for 2018 mean that by the end of the year, we expect to administer approximately two-thirds of our funds under management on the new platform as we continue our programme to transform the UK back-office.
The final third of UK funds under management will complete this significant transformation project in 2019.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information THE ST. JAMESS PLACE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION OUR COMMUNITY The strength and continued growth of the business is due to the hard AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT work and dedication of the Partnership, their teams, our Helping people in need is a very important part of the St. Jamess Place management teams and all our employees and administration culture, with the whole community, including employees, the support teams.
Partnership and their teams, together with suppliers and fund managers committed to supporting charitable causes and making a On behalf of the Board and shareholders I thank everyone connected positive and lasting difference to the lives of people in need.
In 2017, with St. Jamess Place for their contribution to these results and for the St. Jamess Place community celebrated 25 years of giving by their continued enthusiasm, dedication and commitment.
raising a record 5.5 million which, after including the Company matching of 2 for every 1 raised by our community and gift aid, I very much look forward to working with everyone going forward.
provided for total funds raised during the year of 16.8 million.
OUTLOOK Details of the numerous fund raising events and the charities we The global economy is in good shape, with companies trading have supported during the year are provided on pages 63 to 67.
On profitably as new technologies continue to evolve at pace driving behalf of the Trustees and all the charities receiving grants, I would economic growth.
like to thank everyone who supported the Charitable Foundation.
Of course, there are global economic and geopolitical risks, in the UK In addition to these fund-raising efforts, our desire to be doing the we advance towards Brexit and we are starting to see interest rates right thing runs through the whole organisation, underpinning all our rise on both sides of the Atlantic and some increase in market interactions with our local and extended communities.
Whilst there are no certain outcomes we remain membership of FTSE4GOOD recognises the positive nature of our comfortable advising clients to invest through a well-diversified work in these areas.
portfolio in order to benefit over the medium-term and we continue Further details of our corporate responsibility activities are set out to see a growing need for financial advice.
We remain confident that on pages 52 to 61. the Partnership is ideally placed to help their clients through the complexities of their financial lives, reducing their risks and investing MIKE WILSON CBE their money wisely.
It is with sadness and a heavy heart that I inform shareholders of the Our continuing focus on achieving the best possible outcomes for recent passing of Mike Wilson, one of our original Founders and the our clients, through the provision of trusted financial advice together inspiration behind St. Jamess Place.
He will be missed as a friend with our distinctive Investment Management Approach, gives us and mentor to many of the SJP community.
confidence that we will continue to grow our business, in line with Mike was also instrumental in establishing the St. Jamess Place our stated medium-term objective of 15 to 20%, in 2018 and beyond.
Charitable Foundation and leaves a legacy within our community of giving back to others.
Andrew Croft Chief Executive 27 February 2018 We remain confident that the Partnership is ideally placed to help their clients through the complexities of their financial lives, reducing their risks and investing their money wisely.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 7
