Strategic Report Over the last year, we delivered an active CEOs Review programme across a balanced business creating opportunities for both exploration growth and future production and we are well-placed to deliver our long-standing strategy of sustainable value creation.
In Senegal, a key area of focus for the business with the potential to deliver significant future production, we successfully executed five further exploration and Positive progress appraisal wells.
This third phase of drilling achieved an excellent performance in health, safety, environment and corporate responsibility management, with no lost time Cairns strategy is to create, add and realise value for incidents, alongside significant cost and schedule reductions.
shareholders from a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production of oil and gas assets The appraisal activity is now complete for the SNE field and the Joint Venture JV has within a self-funding business model.
2017 was agreed the concept select.
We are targeting Government approval of a phased SNE a successful year for Cairn as we achieved several development by the end of this year to deliver important milestones and progressed our strategy : scale of the potential resource in place, we as a full cycle exploration and production company.
look forward to continuing to work closely with the Government of Senegal to deliver lasting and positive social and economic benefits in country.
A successful oil and gas industry can greatly benefit the people of Senegal and Cairn is investing in and supporting economic growth and good governance.
In terms of current production, the nonoperated Kraken and Catcher developments were highlights in the year, both achieving first oil with total project capital expenditure significantly below the original sanction estimates.
Kraken experienced ramp up extended commissioning phase.
Catcher was on stream by the year end and production levels were deliberately constrained and will increase in phases before capacity is U c developments will continue to ramp up to plateau production rates, with peak net bopd, delivering significant cash flow and capacity for reinvestment.
In addition, the non-operated Nova development project in Norway is in the final stages of project sanction and is three projects of Catcher, Kraken and Nova can be expected to provide production and cash flow to Cairn over the next five years as the Senegal development comes on stream.
F creating a strong platform for future growth from exploration.
We have successfully grown and diversified the portfolio across U and Norway, emerging basins in Senegal, Barents Sea and Mexico and frontier basins along the Atlantic Margin in Ireland and most recently, Suriname.
We were delighted to secure a new country entry with a large acreage position in Suriname which has a conjugate margin with Senegal where we have excellent proprietary {X e  e 12 % Iain McLaren, our Senior Independent equity in the Suriname licence.
acquisition where interpretation work Non-Executive Director has informed the is ongoing to assess future exploration Board that he will not be seeking re-election U c opportunities.
at the companys Annual General Meeting in for Cairn and we have successfully built an a extensive portfolio across a variety of F on that day.
I would like to thank Iain for his play types.
Cairn has a material drilling investments in the Catcher and Kraken excellent contribution to the Board during programme planned which includes up developments started to bear fruit and the the last nine years of service to Cairn.
company firmly established its position as Following Iains retirement from the Board, mmboe net unrisked resource.
The Tethys a sustainable explorer with the cash flow to Keith Lough will assume the role of Chair exploration well has achieved TD and invest in a measured way in the drill bit and in of the audit committee and Peter Kallos will operations are continuing.
The Raudsen the next key developments of SNE and Nova.
assume the role of Senior Independent } We continue to shape the business for the Non-Executive Director.
The first Cairn operated future and actively assess new ventures U within the context of our balanced offering, I would also like to recognise and sincerely } whether they be potential additions to our thank all our employees across the group as portfolio of future exploration opportunities well as the contractors and suppliers for their In international exploration, in addition to or cash flow generating assets.
the Suriname new country entry, Cairn in what has been another successful year for was delighted to secure two new licences Corporate Responsibility is at the heart of the Cairn.
We look forward to working together in Mexico which are located in the prolific Cairn business, and remained the priority in in the exciting year ahead.
but under-explored Sureste basin, offsetting recent world class oil discoveries.
security and wellbeing of our people.
We Exploration planning is underway for four wells promote safe behaviours of contractors and targeting more than one billion boe gross partners and in Senegal, where the industry x is relatively new, Cairn has been able to provide strong leadership in this area.
We are SIMON THOMSON In Ireland, we have grown our acreage committed to protecting the environment in Chief Executive position in the Porcupine Basin with an all of the areas where we operate, and good a interest in five licences with multiple play governance is also key to our commitment F to meet all obligations in a responsible, open unsuccessful exploration well with Operator and transparent manner.
Economics and funding As we continue to deliver success across Working responsibly Contractors and supply chain our business we are working to bring Corporate Responsibility is at the heart of lasting and positive social and economic Cairns business.
We aim to deliver value and transparency benefit to stakeholders.
Senegal is a from our assets and people for the benefit Social & economic benefits of all our stakeholders in a responsible Human rights a successful oil and gas industry could manner.
We underlined the importance Major accident prevention and safety generate significant social and economic of working responsibly in 2017 with the S ecurity benefit for the country.
This can support which brings together our Business and Discharges Principles and Code of Business Ethics Biodiversity assist in reducing reliance on solid fuels in a single published format for the first whilst providing affordable energy.
This further improves our established These guide us in setting our Corporate must always remember that in delivering Corporate Responsibility Management  any commercially attractive project it is System and helps build on our strong which form part of our Key Performance important that we maintain our high track record.
We recognise that we are standards to protect people and the accountable to our stakeholders on our environment and deliver our commitment Wherever we work we apply international to always working responsibly.
industry standards of good practice.
We our continued focus and our commitment continue to be committed to the Extractive to delivering against them.
F F FF the UN Global Compact and more We have also produced a Modern Slavery recently we have begun integrating the Statement this year for the first time.
Whilst UN Sustainable Development Goals into we are not obliged to do so at this time impact benefit planning.
we recognise stakeholder expectation and the need to demonstrate our commitment During 2017 we once again undertook a review of the issues that were material chain and transparency.
We have also set to our business.
Following discussions with up training on how to detect potential instances and improved our procedures to help prevent modern slavery within our supply chain.
 Working Responsibly 48 on P48-75 13 Strategic Report Cairns portfolio offers exposure to high CEOs Review continued impact exploration drilling at appropriate Operational review equity levels with production assets providing cash flow to sustain exploration and development activity.
Highlights of 2017 Senegal Senegal Development Cairn drilled the first deep water wells c basin opening discoveries.
Since then, the key milestones leading up to first oil expected in 2021-2023: region has evolved from a frontier basin to an emerging oil play attracting the attention F F } of the global industry.
In the last three Floating Production Storage and Offloading Vessel FPSO years, Cairn has operated three drilling and subsea infrastructure contractors: a redeployed FPSO programmes and has now successfully is the preferred development option laid the foundation for a multi-phase development plan.
 submitted to the Government of Senegal in H1 2018 completing the appraisal activity for the 8 8 % development of SNE.
Cairn successfully in H2 2018 drilled five exploration and appraisal wells in c  c 8ec 8 k kk c c to take place in H2 2018, subject to Government approval c c { and successfully tested and an interference H2 2018 with the Final Investment Decision FID to follow: test was completed between the two wells Cairn targeting initial production rate of 100,000 barrels  of oil per day bopd and estimates up to 25 wells in initial well confirmed the predictability of the development phase, targeting 240 mmbbls principally in mapped reservoir but was unsuccessful at a deeper carbonate horizon.
The FAN S500 lower reservoir: subsequent phases targeting 250 mmbbls in the S400 upper reservoir 8ec 8ec c c encountered a deeper and separate reservoir Senegal Exploration & Appraisal to the SNE field and further work is underway c c 8 F k well has positive implications for further in third phase of exploration and appraisal activity with hydrocarbon potential.
operations delivered safely and successfully completed ahead of schedule and under budget The drilling operations were completed under budget and significantly ahead of schedule.
k Once again, the campaign was delivered with opportunities an excellent health, safety, environment and corporate responsibility performance.
UK & Norway Production The JV has passed the development concept for the SNE field and is aligned on a phased F U and cost effective development plan.
The first F U c oil production in 2017, with total project capex expenditure e k original project sanction in the initial development phase, targeting 20,000 bopd, with ongoing project commissioning on both Subsequent phases of the development, which are anticipated to follow phase one fields expected to be completed in H1 2018 8 include potential gas export.
These are also mid-year, with peak net production to Cairn of 25,000 expected to focus on maximising the bopd, delivering significant cash flow for reinvestment economic recovery of the field within the twenty five year term of the Production c F Sharing Contract, for which a ten year in Norway: JV completed FEED in 2017 and the Plan for extension is also provided.
Development and Operation PDO is anticipated in H1 2018 c B plateau production of 50,000 bopd, 10,000 bopd net to Cairn 8 U {X e  e 14 The key deliverables for SNE development Completion of firm development drilling with UK & Norway of geophysical, environmental baseline % and geotechnical surveys have all been U c the field is expected to commence later this completed.
Invitations to tender have Cairn where the company has an extensive year.
The cost of this programme has been commenced with major FPSO and subsea portfolio across a variety of plays.
We have reduced following the renegotiated terms infrastructure contractors, with a redeployed built a balanced portfolio of exploration, agreed with Transocean.
FPSO seen as the preferred development appraisal and development assets.
Detailed work has also commenced 8 % on project debt financing.
Cairn has a material exploration drilling programme and lower market rates for the campaign underway with up to ten wells remaining subsea campaign, full cycle gross The development timetable is now focused planned, subject to partner approvals, Kraken project capex was further reduced on the JVs Evaluation Report which will during the year and is currently estimated by outline the basis of commerciality of the resources.
This includes, Ekland, which k project.
The Evaluation Report is close to U originally sanctioned.
finalisation and is expected to be submitted } : B F With regular liftings now established from Key work is also progressing on detailed Kraken, there has been strong interest in this concept and front end engineering and The Tethys well has reached TD and e design FEED with preferred contractors operations are continuing.
The Raudsen and consequently the average discount to B } Brent is expected to narrow.
The Exploitation Plan which will outline the Catcher full life of the PSC development plans and Developments U c options, including a detailed definition of The three developments of Catcher, Kraken c the first phase, is targeted for submission and Nova are a key part of our strategy to and comprises three separate fields: Catcher, B e build steady future cash flows to sustain the Burgman and Varadero.
The fields will be TOO of the development to Woodside will business model and fund future exploration commence.
Government approval is targeted and appraisal across the group.
a combination of production and water 8F% injection wells tied back via subsea First oil from Senegal is expected in the Kraken infrastructure to the newly built BW Catcher Kraken is a large heavy oil accumulation, FPSO.
The vessel receives, processes and stores crude oil from the Catcher area and Alongside development planning, we are east of the Shetland Islands.
evaluating the potential for further exploration opportunities around the SNE discovery where 8 U I The FPSO hull was built and the topsides there is significant untested prospectivity.
the development had a number of FPSO constructed in Singapore before arriving on commissioning issues resulting in an location in October.
Successful commissioning k F extended commissioning phase during activities resulted in the start-up of Catcher WI in the three blocks offshore Senegal which the performance of production % Sangomar Deep, Sangomar Offshore, facilities has continued to be optimised, Rufisque Offshore alongside partners: initially through the first processing train.
The As planned, production has been ramped up F 8e X F second processing train was brought online in phases, firstly from the Catcher field, then c k { in November, resulting in gross production Varadero in January which will be followed WI.
Petrosen have the option to increase to e % shortly by Burgman.
Production levels have F % been deliberately constrained during the online and operational efficiency has ramp up phase while commissioning of the F I 8 full gas processing modules and the water average gross production was consistently injection systems on the FPSO is being carried out.
Full production from the Catcher e } I and February and sold at a premium to Brent.
15 Strategic Report % CEOs Review continued production and injection wells drilled and Operational review completed with positive reservoir results, with { on the second Catcher template and will drill UK & Norway Exploration a further Catcher well before moving to the F e portfolio primarily focused on light oil drilling break.
The Operator remains encouraged about the overall recovery from x the Catcher Area and continues to forecast with plans to drill up to ten wells over the next two years targeting more than 1.5 billion boe gross unrisked resources 725 mmboe net to Cairn unrisked resource across a variety envisaged which the project was sanctioned.
of play types The JV is examining future Catcher Area x % development opportunities to make full use operations are continuing on well 35 9-14A of the newly commissioned facilities.
Studies are underway for the future development of  } X currently operating with an infill well in the northern area of the Catcher Field.
and one licence extension in APA 2017 in Q1 2018 Nova c th e U Licensing Round south west of the Gja field in Norway.
The JV has completed FEED for the Nova development.
Based on the proposed plan, International Exploration hydrocarbons from the Nova reservoir will be developed with two subsea templates a B tied back to the Gja platform for processing one operated and one non-operated licence located in the and export.
Gja will also provide lift gas to prolific yet under-explored Sureste basin the field and water injection for pressure support.
One template will be used for water { x injection, while the other will be used to are offsetting recent world class discoveries and targeting produce hydrocarbons.
more than 1 billion boe gross unrisked potential F } k F a F contracts for the subsea production system offshore Western Sahara was relinquished, alongside the and umbilicals, risers and flowlines, which Operator, in Q4 2017 e e 3, Blocks 1, 2 and 3 in Malta in H1 2017 8 X x { F B F % { during 2017 New Ventures F } F { Sharing Contract PSC with Staatsolie State Oil Company of Suriname, on acreage on the Demerara plateau offshore Suriname, with 2D seismic and contingent 3D seismic activity proposed, beginning in 2019 Paul Mayland and Brita Holstad visiting the Kraken FPSO {X e  e 16 allows the JV to progress towards the of Mexico to deliver the work programme in In Ireland, Cairn has a growing acreage execution phase of the project with the the coming years.
The approval process is position in the Porcupine Basin with an PDO anticipated for submission to the underway to commence drilling three wells interest in five licences over an area of more : } F. In the year, Cairn farmed debt funding from existing RBL facility will be Xk x F k available to fund the development.
First oil is which added further acreage to the previously boe gross unrisked potential resource.
Cairn Xk x e plans to submit an Exploration Plan to the focused on developing a lead and prospect Government of Mexico in March on the x x where the company participated in a large International Exploration commence the four year period of the licence.
% Cairn seeks to generate value with an evolving portfolio of prospects, offering the F } 8 X x potential to mature into a choice of material F unsuccessful exploration well with Operator drilling targets.
Cairns geographical focus is in final negotiations on the PSC with {  x is on the Atlantic Margin where, in addition Staatsolie on acreage in the Demerara B to Senegal, we have key interests in Mexico, % large stratigraphic traps, Druid and the Ireland and most recently Suriname.
This significant future drilling opportunity.
The was the deepest water exploration well Cairn was successful in securing both of and drilled to date offshore Atlantic Ireland.
our targeted, two new licences in the highly has a conjugate margin to Senegal where competitive Mexico offshore bid round in Cairn has significant proprietary data.
Outlook B operated and one non-operated licence We have made excellent progress against F } a located in the Gulf of Mexico in the shallow our strategic objectives in the year, delivering Continental Shelf Department that it would water Sureste basin in water depths of key milestones in the development planning not be extending its Exploration Study of the resource base in Senegal, achieving e e first oil and cash flow from our North Sea Cairn and its JV partner, had fully explored These licence awards provide an exciting developments and continuing to replenish its offshore licences in the Ragusa Basin opportunity to build a portfolio over time in and extend future exploration opportunities.
this highly prolific yet under-explored region.
Our portfolio provides exposure to high of new and Cairn and its partners identified and secured impact exploration drilling whilst the groups % e favoured blocks with multiple stand-alone production assets provide the cash flow to commitments were exceeded.
prospects and numerous follow-on tie-back sustain exploration and development activity.
% The strategic development and progress of e the Cairn business has been achieved whilst Operator, Kosmos Energy, relinquished the Cairn is partnering with ENI, an experienced maintaining balance sheet strength and interest in the Boujdour Maritime licence explorer and operator in Mexico, and Citla funding flexibility.
The JV will fulfil Energy, a Mexican focused Exploration its contractual obligations and complete the Company and we look forward to working % with our new partners and the Government U 8{k  17
