Annual Report & Accounts 2017 16 Hochschild Mining plc Chief Executives review We are confident of our enormous potential Hochschild delivered another record year of production whilst maintaining cost increases within expectations, excellent environmental performance, advancing our brownfield programme and continuing our drive to repay debt and optimise our balance sheet.
We have also begun to widen our exploration focus to include selected greenfield projects across the Americas as well as assessing a wide variety of joint ventures and acquisitions that could supplement our long-term growth profile at a low cost.
We are confident that our exploration-led growth strategy will continue to add high quality ounces to our existing assets, generate new early-stage projects and deliver long-term shareholder value.
Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer Our strategy for growth No less important and in response to the and expect that our current drilling programme fatalities that occurred during the year, I would will enable an improvement in resource quality Our strategy for growth focuses on three like to highlight that the management team has and quantity in the future.
Finally, I am pleased to key paths to secure low cost growth.
designed and is implementing the Hochschild report that, during 2017, we achieved an Safety Transformation plan which will reinforce excellent score in our newly implemented the entire Companys commitment to a safe environmental corporate objective at all our Brownfield working environment.
We will continue to work to maintain Optimising and exploring and improve our environmental culture and close to our current mines Operations performance based on a strong belief that to increase life-of-mine Our core operations produced over half a million responsible mining is fully compatible with and facilitate low cost attributable gold equivalent ounces 38.0 million respect for the environment.
silver equivalent ounces for the first time since the IPO achieving a fifth year of output Exploration increases and improving on our original 37.0 Our ambitious brownfield exploration million ounce silver equivalent target.
This, yet programme in Peru started to gain momentum Greenfield again, demonstrates the value of our long-term in the second half of 2017 when, with all requisite A reshuffled portfolio organic growth strategy.
Inmaculada was a key permits in place, we were able to commence our generating a number of driver, delivering another record year of almost surface drilling programmes at Inmaculada and promising targets in 240,000 gold equivalent ounces at a competitive Arcata.
Early results from the first campaign in six good geographies.
all-in sustaining cost of $721 per gold equivalent years at Inmaculada are very encouraging and ounce $9.7 per silver equivalent ounce.
San confirmed the presence of the Millet vein as well Jose also achieved a record 7.1 million as eight other structures close to our mining attributable silver equivalent ounces and infrastructure at the Angela vein.
In Argentina, Pallancata moved strongly into a new phase with we had some success in discovering new Acquisitions 7.7 million silver equivalent ounces at a cost of structures close to the San Jose mine and we $10.7 per silver equivalent ounce.
At our Arcata also continued to drill in the Aguas Vivas area to Targeting early-stage mine, the effects of a lengthy permit delay to the north west where we are currently assessing opportunities with strong brownfield exploration in 2016 began to be fully the nature of this polymetallic orebody which has geological potential.
felt with the accessing of increasingly narrower significant quantities of zinc and lead as well as veins and a reduced number of stopes lowering precious metals.
At Pallancata, the focus was on production to 5.5 million silver equivalent developing the Pablo vein in preparation for ounces.
We remain optimistic that, despite the mining in 2018 whilst the discovery of the Marco impairment recognised in 2017, there is still vein nearby has added further resources and Our Strategy geological potential in the Arcata deposit area prompted a new regional geological hypothesis Page 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 17 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information which we will be testing in 2018.
Finally, at Arcata 7.1million silver equivalent ounces from the we were able to discover additional inferred dependable San Jose mine.
At Arcata, where we 514,000 resources and throughout 2018, an intensive expect production of 4 million silver equivalent campaign will continue to explore for resources ounces, management will continue to closely Gold equivalent with the goal of utilising the plants significant monitor performance to ensure production spare capacity.
isoptimised whilst maintaining the assets ounces produced optionality with regards to prices, exploration Financial position results and cost efficiencies.
All-in sustaining Strong cash flow from our operations costs for operations are expected at between combined with some balance sheet management $960 to $990 per gold equivalent ounce opportunities has left us in a healthy financial $13.0to $13.4 per silver equivalent ounce with position.
On 23 January 2018, we were able to the slight increase versus the $12.3 per ounce in redeem the remaining $295 million of our 7.75% 2017 resulting from further development costs 9 Senior Notes.
We replaced a portion of these of the Pablo vein and a one-off highly profitable bonds with short to medium term debt from investment in a hydraulic backfill project at San New veins discovered local banks in Peru with an average rate of 2.2% Jose.
We are also pleased to note that the at Inmaculada and approximately $100 million was repaid from corporate tax rate in Argentina has been reduced existing cash resources.
Consequently, our cash from 35% to 30% from 2018 and to 25% from balance after this transaction remains a healthy 2020 and, hence we can look forward to a $85 million and we expect our interest costs to significant positive impact on San Joses net fall by approximately $20 million per year from profitability although taxes on dividends have also been reinstated to 7% through to 2020 2019 onwards.
Financial results A further $17 million is expected to be invested Whilst an increased average gold price received in our brownfield exploration in 2018 as we look was offset by a moderate fall in the silver price to maintain the current momentum and an received, record production once again ensured a additional budget of $10 million is assigned to rise in revenue of 5% to $723 million 2016: $688 greenfield projects with some exciting prospects million.
The operational all-in sustaining cost of to be drilled in Peru, Chile, Canada and the $12.3 per silver equivalent ounce 2016: $11.2 United States.
Low cost, early-stage acquisition per ounce was in line with forecasts although opportunities will continue to be pursued across the increase reflected an increased investment in the Americas and, in particular, earn-in joint brownfield exploration as well as one-off project ventures where operations can benefit from costs at Inmaculada and consequently this Hochschilds technical expertise.
We are resulted in Adjusted EBITDA of $301 million confident that our exploration-led growth 2016: $329 million.
Finally, with finance costs strategy will continue to add high quality ounces reduced despite the high yield bonds now to our existing assets, generate new early-stage repaid, basic earnings per share and adjusted projects and deliver long-term shareholder value.
earnings per share was $0.08 per share 2016: $0.11 and $0.09 per share respectively.
Ignacio Bustamante Outlook Chief Executive Officer We expect attributable production in 2018 to 20 February 2018 be 514,000 gold equivalent ounces 38 million silver equivalent ounces driven by another 240,000 gold equivalent ounces from Inmaculada, an increased contribution of 9.5million silver equivalent ounces from the revitalised Pallancata mine and another
