14 | Chief Executive Officers Q&A Maintaining our momentum In my past five years as Chief Executive Officer we have achieved some major milestones.
Welisted on the London Stock Exchange, have achieved 2.6million live customer policies and employ over 3,100 colleagues.
We are now valued at 2bn and RMI has made significant long-term investment in our company.
Ina challenging marketplace, we maintain momentumand continue to deliver profitable growth.
We are committed to doing the right thing for all of our 4Cs and I am proud to be part of the Hastings family.
In my new role as Chairman from May 2018, that will continue.
Gary Hoffman Chief Executive Officer Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 15 Q Q Q Tell us more about how you will Its been a year since RMI How has Hastings invested in achieve your new targets?
colleagues to support future How has the relationship growth plans?
A We set ourselves four targets at the time A of the IPO and we refreshed these in Our continued success is a testament March 2017.
Our targets include a growth to the work of our colleagues and we The transaction with RMI concluded target: to have 3 million customers on 1 March 2017, and represents a are very lucky to have some of the during 2019: a risk target: to deliver a best people in the industry working real statement of intent and long term calendar year loss ratio within the range confidence in Hastings.
Our agile, data driven business of 75-79%: and two cash and capital model and strong reputation have Herman Bosman, the Chief Executive targets: to reduce our net debt leverage Officer of RMI has joined our Board and attracted some very experienced multiple to 1.0x during 2019, and to colleagues this year into senior roles attended many board meetings and continue paying a healthy dividend with provided additionalinsights.
that will help usdeliver ambitious apayout ratio of between 50% and 60%.
Wecontinue to attract When we announced RMI as our a growing number of full time and Weve continued to make good progress new major shareholder, we said that part time colleagues who deliver great in executing our growth strategy, with we might explore potential areas of customer and claims service at our head a 13% increase in policy numbers co-operation with them and their office site in Bexhill and second site in throughout 2017, and are very confident subsidiary, OUTsurance, given their Leicester which is now home to over of meeting our target of 3 million experience in the general insurance 1,200 colleagues.
We have introduced customers during 2019. market and if it was the right thing to do a new homeworking model for some of for our 4Cs ways of working.
To support our frontline colleagues and plan to use The majority of our planned growth our colleagues and customers in early OUTsurance more this year to support will come from our core motor book, 2018, we started working in partnership our colleagues and customers, primarily with continued momentum from an with OUTsurance to take calls primarily over evenings and weekends.
increasing share of price comparison over evenings and weekends.
This is in websites PCW sales, a profitable addition to the large scale recruitment We remain committed to developing the maturing book and the launch of a skills and careers of all of our colleagues across our UK sites, which will allow newmulticar proposition in 2018 which us to improve shift patterns for our and to provide them with the right tools will be enabled by the implementation to do their jobs.
In 2017, we launched Hastings colleagues, making them more ofGuidewire.
flexible and reducing the number of our new internal career portal that provides information about internal evenings and weekends they are asked We are continuing to see more to work.
As you would expect when career frameworks and guidance on the customers using PCW to buy their training and development colleagues we shared this news internally it was insurance and we have been able to well received.
need to help develop their careers with apply our successful approach in motor Hastings.
We also made significant to the home insurance market.
We now investment in Guidewire our new have over 2.6 million customers and we system that will help both colleagues started underwriting home insurance and customers.
ourselves as a lead insurer in small volumes earlier this year.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 16 | Chief Executive Officers Q&A Maintaining our momentum continued Q Q Q Theres been significant What is your outlook on premium Whats your view on the impact investment in Guidewire: can rate increases?
of autonomous cars on the you tell us more about it and insurance industry?
A We began increasing premiums in the A first half of 2014, ahead of the market We welcome any environment that that started raising rates in 2015, after improves road safety: however we do Guidewire is a market leading software a three year period of sustained price that supports claims, broking and billing view broad adoption of fully automated reductions.
Premiums continued to rise vehicles as being many years away.
We have across the market driven by continuing also invested in additional software Manufacturers will continue to introduce claims inflation, with additional increases partial automation that will improve components to increase the ability of seen following the change to the Ogden our customers to self-serve through the safety of vehicles and in turn help rate announced in February 2017, to reduce the frequency of accidents.
Improvements which increased both claims costs and for our customers and our colleagues We have found that the improvements the cost for excess of loss reinsurance.
in technology have made it more include reducing the claims lifecycle, Inthe last quarter of 2017, we started more informed pricing, and enhancing expensive to repair vehicle damage, seeing pricing fluctuations following which is offsetting the benefits from our customer services by providing a the UK Governments subsequent 24 7 online self-service portal.
We expect announcement regarding further these trends to continue in the future We have realised significant benefits proposed changes to the Ogden and we use our data and analytical skills following the launch of the claims ratecalculation.
to build these changes into our prudent module, and continue to improve and underwriting approach.
As you look into the future, we would enhance the system based on colleague expect premium rate changes to feedback and customer experience.
follow claims inflation, with some We are following a staged roll out of uncertainty surrounding the proposed the broker platform and all major PCW changes to the Ogden rate, and also were live on Guidewire for private from the planned whiplash reforms.
car insurance by the end of 2017.
In As ever, we continue to focus on the addition, we have commenced migrating quality of our underwriting, and the our private car insurance renewals agility of our pricing model means we business to Guidewire.
It will enable can react quickly to claims, market efficiencies that will deliver value and orregulatorychanges.
provide a platform for future growth.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 17 Live customer polices Adjusted operating profit 2.6 million 184.1m Q Q Q Can you tell us about corporate What has been your personal What do you think Toby van der responsibility at Hastings?
Meer will bring to the role of Chief Executive Officer?
A A A Its important for me and my colleagues Weve achieved a number of milestones to see firsthand the difference we including celebrating our 20th anniversary Toby has an extensive background in can make through our charitable and with our colleagues and communities.
direct financial services and I am delighted community interactions so we focus In the time that I have been here, live that we were able to promote internally our attention locally rather than customer policies LCP have more than after an industry wide search.
supporting national or global initiatives.
doubled from 1.1 million in 2012 to over Before joining Hastings, Toby was a This approach is embraced by our 2.6 million today and our colleague Managing Director at MoneySupermarket, colleagues through their fundraising numbers have increased to over 3,100. one of the UKs leading PCW, where efforts and participation in Another key highlight is RMIs investment he was responsible for the money and community days.
This shows a broker led businesses and operations.
real statement of intent and long term As an example, in July, our leadership Before that he spent nearly a decade in confidence in what we are, what we are team took the opportunity to join forces senior financial services roles including doing and what we aregoing to do.
to give back to the local community and leading Citigroup UKs retail bank and say thank you for the past 20 years.
I am honoured to be part of the as a member of the executive team of The teams took part in beach cleaning, Hastings 20 year history and the team online bank Egg.
Toby joined us in 2011 student career advice and providing that has achieved so much in creating as Managing Director for Retail and in afternoon tea and bingo for older people, a successful, fast growing UK general this role has been responsible for the and also ran charity shops with items insurance provider.
development of the Companys UK Retail donated by colleagues.
It was great to business, which covers around two give practical help as well as raise money thirds of our Group profits.
Toby also has for our local charity partners.
considerable digital and customer service Q experience, and is currently responsible I am very proud of the work we do with for product and retail pricing, brand Looking forward, why the change local students in Bexhill and Leicester and marketing, digital, and customer from Chief Executive Officer to through our Be the Change programme operations at our Bexhill and Leicester Chairman?
which aims to raise the aspirations of sites.
In his seven years with us, Toby has local 13 and 14 year olds by providing A played a pivotal role in the significant workshops, one to one sessions and growth and development of the Groups With Mike Faireys decision to retire as workplace visits.
It is particularly Retail business and he is a well respected Chairman at the AGM in May 2018 and humbling and gratifying when students leader within the Group.
These credentials the Boards unanimous support, it felt speak openly and honestly about their and his commitment to our 4Cs ways of as if it was the right thing to do.
It allows actions or feelings as a result of our working, make Toby a natural successor to me to remain part of the Hastings family business mentors sharing their own take Hastings forward to the next stage of and to draw on my experience of chairing experiences with them.
I know that my its journey.
I wish Toby every success in his boards and committees, notably as Vicefellow business mentors are equally new role.
Chairman of Barclays PLC, Chairman of as proud of Be the Change and the UK Banking and Barclaycard at Barclays, difference we can make to the younger and in my current role as Non-Executive Gary Hoffman members of our local communities.
Chief Executive Officer 28 February 2018 Mike has achieved a huge amount for us over the past three years, including guiding us through the IPO and our early years as a listed entity, and I wish him all the best on his retirement.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
