Chief Executive Officers statement T TI F I Fl lu ui id S d Sy ys st te em ms p s pl lc c d fide el li iv five ere red d s st tro ron ng g p pe er rf for orm ma ance nce i in n 2 20 01 17 7.
Glycol coolant lines As this is our first Annual Report and quick connectors Used for glycol liquid as a public company, I am delighted transfer for the thermal management of vehicle to welcome you as a shareholder.
interior cabin heating, HEV EV battery, power electronic and motors As set out at the time of the IPO in October 2017, we have delivered another year of strong business performance in line with expectations.
This reiterates the attractiveness of the markets we operate in and our position as a leading global Tier 1 automotive supplier of fluid handling systems.
TI Fluid Systems plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategy update The Groups strategy of organic revenue growth, financial For more information performance and focus on megatrends remains at the core on our strategic objectives of the business.
go to page 18 Continue with the Groups market position strengths For more information about in key products our 2017 financial performance We continue to be the #1 supplier of brake and fuel lines go to page 26 in all key regions globally and #3 supplier of plastic fuel tanks.
Our customer and product focus has served to develop our strong market positions.
Together with our established global manufacturing footprint and level of vertical integration, we have achieved expansion by securing new business awards including on global vehicle platforms.
This success is carrying through to our thermal management products, systems and plastic pressurised tank modules where we are strongly positioned for the HEV, EV and autonomous vehicle growth trends.
William Bill Kozyra Maintain balanced customer, platform, regional and President and CEO product diversification With manufacturing facilities and assembly plants in 118 locations across 28 countries and a balanced customer portfolio, we continue to mitigate the impact of regional market cyclicality and customer concentration.
In addition, our expertise across a range of fluid handling products has supported our ability to efficiently expand into complementary components and systems with high growth.
We specifically target vehicles and platforms that support our strong diversification.
Continue enhancing the Groups position as an advanced technology leader in automotive fluid systems to meet 2017 Performance industry megatrend changes Global light vehicle production has a significant influence on We have continued to invest in R&D to develop products that our financial performance.
In 2017, global light vehicle production facilitate our OEM customers meeting regulated emissions volume increased in all markets except North America and and fuel economy requirements.
We have industry recognised reached 95.1 million vehicles, representing an increase of 2.1% innovation awards for plastic fuel tank technologies addressing compared to the same period the prior year.
emissions regulations and continue to see demand for our gasoline, diesel and turbocharger lines that support increasing We continued to deliver revenue growth above global light regulatory requirements.
vehicle production growth with solid profitability and cash flow generation.
We generated revenue of 3,491 million 5.4% at Continued focus on automotive megatrends constant currency, Adjusted EBIT of 384 million 11.0% margin The growing HEV and EV market provides significant growth and Adjusted Free Cash Flow of 119 million.
opportunities aligned with our strength in thermal management products and systems, plastic pressurised fuel tank modules We have continued to grow revenue in excess of global light and light weight including nylon materials.
vehicle production growth as a result of being a global market and technology leader in highly engineered automotive fluid Our addressable market could increase substantially especially systems, our strong customer relationships, and our global for thermal management, given that EVs would typically require low cost manufacturing footprint including our wholly owned battery, chassis, electric motor and electronics thermal operations in China.
We are well positioned with our products management heating and cooling in addition to traditional and process capabilities to benefit from the continuing demand passenger cabin heating and cooling lines.
Additional thermal for light vehicles and the megatrend of electrification.
management products and systems are expected for autonomous vehicles.
We continue to pursue, with increasing confidence, organic HEV and EV opportunities with our existing customers on the larger volume EV programmes.
Our business model continues to be successful and we believe further progress can be achieved by meeting our goals in 2018.
TI Fluid Systems plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executive Officers statement continued Coolant line with Capitalise on the Groups strong customer relationships, quick connector global footprint and excellent position in China Used for glycol liquid With significant presence in all of the major geographies for transfer for the thermal OEM vehicle production and a well established global footprint management of vehicle within close proximity to OEM assembly facilities, we aim to cooling system be the supplier of choice on OEM global platforms.
A significant amount of our revenue was generated from OEM global platforms i. e. platforms produced in three or more regions and we expect this global platform growth trend to continue.
19% of our 2017 revenue was from operations in China where we have a long established presence and whollyowned operations.
Deliver strong growth, profitability and cash flow generation For a long period of time, this management team with the strength of our people worldwide has achieved excellent and consistent financial performance with strong revenue growth, profitability and cash flow generation.
Our proven track record of financial performance has continued in 2017.
Looking ahead As promised during the IPO, our dedicated team has continued to strengthen our global position by driving new technologies and products and enhancing our outstanding relationships with customers worldwide.
The Group remains well placed to capitalise on the automotive megatrends of reduced emissions and improved fuel economy and we continue to have confidence that the trend towards HEV, EV and autonomous vehicles is positive for the Group.
We look forward to executing our plan and delivering attractive returns as a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Bill Kozyra Chief Executive Officer and President TI Fluid Systems plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
