Chief Executives strategic review Appetite to invest As can be seen by our Supply Chain volume The challenges we face in Managed Services, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our growth, and by the growth of some of our where our customers demand continual customers for their trust in Computacenter, for competitors, customers currently have the innovation to drive down cost and improve user their business in 2017 and the future.
I would appetite to invest in new technology.
experience, mean we have to invest to stay also like to thank our staff for their commitment ahead of our competition and we must stay to never letting our customers down and our Whether this is to improve their competitiveness, materially ahead of our customers ability to long-term shareholders for their support.
enhance their users experience, develop new innovate for themselves.
We have increased markets, strengthen their IT security or simply our investment and commitment to enhancing refresh legacy systems, the drive to digitalisation our propositions in many areas but particularly Mike Norris is strong across the customer base.
However, in the Digital Workplace, Techbars, Service Chief Executive Officer along with this thirst for new technology comes Desk, Networking, Security and Cloud.
We also 13 March 2018 an unerring desire to reduce the cost of their seek to drive automation everywhere we find ongoing IT operations.
These market drivers it economically justifiable.
have a very positive influence on our Supply Chain and Professional Services businesses but Computacenter prides itself on a stable create a challenge for our Managed Services Management team, but even the strongest revenue and margin a challenge that we need team occasionally requires a refresh and to step up to.
consequently we significantly enhanced the team in 2017.
Of particular note is the Computacenter has positioned itself as the appointment of Andy Stafford as our Chief chosen route to market for the Public Sector Operating Officer, responsible for our Services, and many large enterprises throughout development and delivery.
Andy joins us after Western Europe.
Maintaining and strengthening a long and successful career at various these relationships enables us to take companies, particularly Accenture.
Mohammed advantage of the current buoyant market Siddiqi rejoined Computacenter after a short conditions for our Supply Chain services.
time away to head up Strategy and Marketing.
In 2018, we will further develop these services Kevin James moved from his position of UK with the opening of a new logistics and Managing Director to Group Chief Commercial integration centre close to our existing facility Officer, responsible for our Vendor relations in Kerpen, Germany.
We will continue to invest and Supply Chain business, and Neil Hall has in our Supply Chain systems to make sure this been appointed the UK Managing Director.
While service remains the envy of the industry.
Computacenter has had a successful few years, I feel confident that the team can exploit the Accessing and retaining the right technical new opportunities that the market presents.
skills is key to our success but the labour market for technology skills has continued to tighten and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future.
While this is clearly a challenge, our low levels of attrition make this a source of competitive advantage, particularly within the areas of Networking, Security and Cloud.
Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer 04 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2017 STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS Our strategy has continued to drive our business forward in 2017.
T o lead with and grow our We grew the annual Contract Base to delivered against Services business 756 million, which represents circa this strategic objective: 11 million growth on 2016.
T o improve our Services We continued our global expansion of our delivered against productivity and enhance Service Desk and Infrastructure Operations.
this strategic ourcompetitiveness objective: We established a new location in Mexico, Page 20 helping us to meet the needs of particular global clients.
T o retain and maximise the The number of Group customers who delivered against relationship with our customers generate more than 1 million per year of this strategic over the long term objective: 2 gross profit, measured in constant currency, Page 22 increased from 102 to 107.
T o innovate our Services Digital Me, our Digital Workplace proposition delivered against offerings to build future growth and offering, is already becoming a key this strategic opportunities objective: differentiator in contracts we have won in Page 24 the UK, Germany and France.
Related material: How it all fits together page 17 05
