Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review AN ACTIVE YEAR FOR NMC 2017 proved to be a year of tremendous achievements for NMC, enhancing further the successful track record already achieved by the Group in previous years.
Qualification for the FTSE 100 index, EXPANSION AND COLLABORATION: KEY and view this route as an attractive consolidation of previous organic and OPERATIONAL THEMES OF THE YEAR means of participating in the highly inorganic expansions, extension of our Our acquisition of Al Zahra in Sharjah, anticipated privatisation program in the geographic footprint and strengthening the launching of additional facilities in GCC healthcare sector.
and deepening of the management Saudi Arabia, entry into the Oman market structure all marked a very active year and expansion of the Operations & The Distribution division also continues for NMC.
In short, we see 2017 as setting Management O&M business vertical, to maintain its pace of healthy growth, the stage for many more years of growth particularly for Emirates Healthcare outpacing overall economic growth due for the Company and we begin 2018 Groups assets, marked key strategic to the value added services NMC provides with confidence.
growth milestones for the Healthcare its customers.
We continue to see this division in 2017.
Another exciting vertical as a key part of our business, with TREND OF STRONG GROWTH development during the year was the its benefits to the Group extending well MAINTAINED IN 2017 signing of a collaboration agreement beyond financial contribution.
For example, FY 2017 marked another year of record with Cincinnati Childrens Hospital Medical instant procurement savings synergies revenues and profits for NMC, with the Centre, bringing highly specialised that we are able to offer to clients gives top and bottom lines reaching US$1.6bn services to the underserved paediatrics us a head start over competitors while and US$209.2m, respectively.
well-defined strategy continues to drive sustained growth.
Moreover, with the The verticals-based structure approach REVISED MANAGEMENT AND recently announced strategy update adopted by NMC, supported by underlying ORGANISATION STRUCTURE stressing three key tenets, namely Centres of Excellence, has served the group TO SUPPORT CONTINUED GROWTH capacity growth, capability focus and well in implementing its growth strategy.
During 2017, our founder Dr. B. R. Shetty geographic expansion, we remain As per the recent Group strategy update, decided to step down from day to day confident in our ability to continue to we remain open to the idea of adding new operational activities and relinquished build on the success of past years.
verticals through acquisitions and also his positions as Executive Vice Chairman The year also witnessed NMC receiving continue to see potential for some of our and CEO to take on the role of Joint several awards, ranging from those Centres of Excellence to be upgraded to non-executive Chairman of the Group.
recognising the level of care provided to new business verticals in the medium While we continue to benefit from his patients to the extra emphasis the Group term.
As I recently highlighted, the guidance as a member of the Board, places on the value of its employees.
cosmetics business is one potential there was a concerted focus on However, entry into the prestigious candidate for a new vertical, particularly strengthening and deepening of NMCs FTSE-100 index is the one accolade that after the recent acquisition of CosmeSurge.
management structure during this year stands out in terms of recognising the of consolidation and integration to 40 years of hard work that has brought The O&M vertical has also become support the Groups sustained growth.
NMC to where it stands today!
a centre of renewed focus for NMC, with As detailed on page 2 of this annual revenues in 2018 set to be significantly report, a new clusters-based approach ahead of those achieved in 2017.
We has been adopted in this regard, which continue to actively seek new O&M improves decision-making by contracts in the public and private sectors decentralising the process from the across a number of different geographies corporate head-quarters.
For more information see Our Strategy on page 20 Our Strategy Develop centres Increasing Expand medical Pursue in-vertical Offer fully of excellence within healthcare spend specialty offering consolidation integrated 1 2 3 4 5 the multi-specialty retention within and maximise opportunities healthcare vertical the UAE cross-referrals solutions 14 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. NMC entered the prestigious FTSE-100 index in 2017, the first GCC-based company to achieve this major milestone.
As highlighted in the HY 2017 results NMC also maintains sharp focus on TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION: announcement, as part of the clinical quality, with international HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY RIPE management restructuring process, accreditations seen as an important FOR DISRUPTION Michael Davis and Hani Buttikhi have benchmark.
NMC Royal Hospital, With technological innovation touching been appointed as Chief Operating Brightpoint and Al Zahra Hospital all every area of the industry, I firmly believe Officer, Healthcare and Chief Investment received the coveted JCI accreditation that next big disruption will be in Officer, respectively.
Additionally, three in 2017, making all seven of NMCs UAE healthcare.
Remote monitoring of new positions have been created that hospitals JCI accredited.
Our aim is to disease via wearable diagnostic gadgets, report directly to me, namely, Director ensure that all our hospitals, acquired or early diagnosis of disease, prenatal of Employee Engagement, Head of IVF otherwise, become accredited by JCI and diagnosis and treatment of disease and and Head of Saudi Arabian operations.
this is an important KPI I have set for our a completely new way of looking at and operations teams.
treating degenerative diseases are just YEAR OF ACCOLADES, CAPPED BY ENTRY some of the examples of how the future INTO COVETED FTSE-100 INDEX EMPLOYEES REMAIN FIRMLY AT of healthcare is changing dramatically.
NMC entered the prestigious FTSE-100 THE CENTRE OF NMCS SUCCESS We are ensuring that NMC remains at index in 2017, the first GCC-based Our ethos has been built on, and remains, the forefront of this change and rapid company to achieve this major milestone.
every patient matters, every employee adoption and deployment of We see this inclusion as a recognition of counts.
Our previous and current technological innovation is now more than 40 years of hard work that has management teams have always embedded in the Group strategy, as transformed the single clinic opened by understood that our employees of all announced in the December 2017 update.
Dr. B. R. Shetty in 1975 to one of the top 15 levels are key to the success of NMC as global healthcare operators in the world an organisation.
In August 2017, we by market capitalisation.
celebrated NMC Foundation Day for the first time.
Events were held across all of The Company received several awards our facilities, both new and longstanding in 2017 recognising its operational within the NMC family, and I remain excellence, the most notable of which encouraged and humbled at the include 1 NMC Royal receiving Gulf continuing energy, commitment, Customer Experience Awards 2016 in the professionalism and loyalty shown across Wellbeing and Healthcare category, 2 our employee base, not just on these Service Olympian Awards for Best Use special days, but every day.
We try to of Innovation and Technology for ProVita focus significant efforts on the wellbeing and 3 NMC Healthcare and NMC Trading and future success of our employees and both received two separate business their commitment to the Group and the excellence awards at the 9th Cycle of services we provide continues unabated.
the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum I thank all of our staff for their tremendous Business Award ceremony.
Furthermore, commitment to the Company and the the Group also received recognition as strategy that we continue to pursue.
one of the Top Companies to Work For in UAE by the Great Place to Work Institute.
Develop the Increase Establish a NMC health participation in strategic presence 6 7 8 umbrella brand the medical outside the UAE tourism market NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review continued NMC has moved from success to success over the past many years and I see no reason why this should change in the foreseeable future, despite an otherwise challenging environment.
Artificial Intelligence AI, while in its VIEWING THE FUTURE WITH OPTIMISM, The Company continues to benefit from infancy of being understood, let alone DESPITE ALL CHALLENGES ready access to debt financing and a being utilised, holds the most promise NMC has moved from success to success supportive shareholder base that we will for revolutionising the healthcare sector.
over the past many years and I see no not take for granted.
While we continue It has the potential to change how we reason why this should change in the to apply strict criteria to our expansion look at the industry, taking it from the foreseeable future, despite an otherwise opportunities, this backdrop gives us current model of sickness care towards challenging environment.
Sustained confidence in addressing any future preventive care by identifying and ramp up of utilisation at facilities we funding requirements to support our addressing ailments any individual may opened in recent years, integration of ambitious growth plans.
be prone to, well before they manifest acquired assets and continued discipline themselves.
Moreover, AI-powered virtual in organic and inorganic expansions Yours sincerely, assistants can answer patients routine should all translate into a very promising questions while assisting in-house 2018 and beyond.
The most important medical professionals.
At the same time, assets to keep a track of in this regard are: PRASANTH MANGHAT robotics can potentially automate NMC Royal, Brightpoint and Chronic Care Chief Executive Officer ancillary and back-office hospital services, for ramp-up of operations, Al Zahra improving efficiency and allowing medical Hospital and CosmeSurge from an staff to focus on direct patient care.
In integration standpoint and the GCC light of these rapid developments, NMC is in general and KSA in particular for establishing a robust innovation structure, additional acquisitions as we continue and will rely on both organic and inorganic to see the benefit from acquiring assets means to become a leader on this front.
and optimising their capabilities within I am confident that by deeply integrating the NMC network model.
technology, NMC has the potential to expand the very boundaries of the healthcare sector.
16 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
