Strategic report | Chief Executives review Peter Brooks-Johnson Chief Executive Officer Rightmove, the UKs number one property portal, has We continue to achieve this by providing consumers with the delivered another year of record results.
Our number of most up to date, engaging and comprehensive property advertisers grew by 2% to reach an all-time high of nearly content together with search, research and home moving 20,500 and with advertisers spending more on our products, tools to support their home moving journey.
In addition to data and services, our revenue increased by 11% to 243.3m the hundreds of updates to our platforms each month, 1 with underlying operating profit up 11% to 184.4m and recent improvements and innovations include: redesigning operating profit up 10% to 178.3m.
map-based search and the introduction of Where can I live?
discovery-based search functionality which helps consumers Home movers visited Rightmove over 1.5 billion times in find homes in areas which are affordable and convenient for 2017, an increase of over 4% on 2016 and they spent nearly them.
Innovation requires experimentation, and in 2017 we a billion minutes on Rightmove every month.
piloted an experimental app, RentLondon, which explored trends in search to make the process of finding a rental Our continued progress is testament to our restless focus property more efficient.
It incorporated a messenger bot to on the UK property advertising market and the huge effort enable renters to conduct their entire search using natural Rightmovers have made to build our business in partnership language via Facebook Messenger.
The future is exciting as with our industry customers.
This restless innovation was we take the learnings from RentLondon and apply them to recognised by Forbes in 2017, ranking Rightmove as the our core search functionality in 2018. worlds most innovative growth company for the second year in a row.
Our innovation is focused on making our marketplace We continued to invest in our brand in 2017, concentrating on simpler and more efficient, creating even more reasons to be two market sectors: renters, and those looking to find the right excited by the opportunities ahead for Rightmove.
home near the right school.
We launched the latest iteration Our Strategy making home moving easier of our find your happy television campaign on Christmas Day.
The place consumers turn to first and engage with most This next phase brings to life strong emotional stories which At the core of our strategy is a relentless focus on continual many home hunters connect with.
The stories all relate to why improvement and innovation to create the most compelling people move, not just the search process.
Our first critically experience for consumers so that they turn to us first.
With acclaimed advert in the series addresses downsizing and our focus on doing the right thing for both consumers and growing families.
It not only created a bit of a stir on social customers, Rightmove is a trusted and valuable source of media but reflects our position at the heart of home moving property information.
We provide support for home movers for all generations.
Brand building will continue to focus on enabling them to feel confident, inspired and in control.
national television through our partnership with Channel 4 This not only results in more consumers turning to Rightmove supported by online video on demand.
We will also continue first and engaging with us, but importantly it generates more to add further presence in London with 400 branded taxis, and better quality leads for our customers than anywhere additional outdoor media and our exclusive partnerships else, leading to better outcomes and greater value for them.
with the Evening Standard and Time Out.
1 Before share-based payments charge of 4.9m 2016: 4.1m and NI charge of 1.2m 2016: 0.5m on share-based incentives.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Home movers visited Rightmove over 1.5 billion times in 2017 and they spent nearly a billion minutes on Rightmove every month.
More consumers than ever turned to Rightmove in 2017 with searching commercial property listings on Rightmove.
over 1.5 billion visits across all our platforms.
Time spent on This activity generated more than 650,000 leads for our the Rightmove platforms was unchanged year on year at a customers.
As a result more and more commercial agents record equalling 11.7 billion minutes.
Against the backdrop of and commercial landlords are choosing to advertise with us.
a new, faster site infrastructure rolled out during 2016, a less Our Data Services business continues to help the property frenetic lettings market and the increase in use of mobile industry by leveraging our unmatched pool of property data.
devices, which typically have lower average time per visit, In addition to providing our Agency and New Homes this demonstrates the continued popularity and importance customers with invaluable data driven insights, we use our of our platforms.
Our market share of traffic across both data and technology to run a market leading automated 2 desktop and mobile was 73% with the mobile component valuation model for some of the largest lenders and help the 2 even higher at 79%.
surveying industry to drive efficiencies in their businesses.
The tools we provide for researching the market bring For example, our Surveyors Comparable Tool saves surveyors simplicity and confidence to sellers and landlords.
Traffic to preparation time, improves valuation accuracy and provides our research tools also grew significantly in 2017 as sellers documentary proof of the process making it the go-to tool and landlords turned to Rightmove first to help inform their for the industry.
During 2017 the tool assessed and scored decisions.
Our research tools, such as sold prices data, are over 1.7 billion comparable property records to create over by far the most widely used in the UK and provide the unique two million compatible reports for surveyors.
benefit of access to our catalogue of one million currently Unrivalled exposure, leads and products for our customers listed properties and 45 million historical property records.
With visits to our platforms growing for the 16th consecutive Consumers spent over 420 million minutes using our research year we continued to increase the exposure for our tools in 2017 which is up by over 15% on the previous year.
This exposure generated Visits to our Overseas property site remained consistent 43.6 million leads for our customers, seven percent down on with levels seen in 2016, suggesting the dream of owning a 2016.
The surge in lettings stock following the stamp duty property abroad for many of the British public continues to increase for second properties in April 2016 meant for most be a popular one, despite the fall in Sterling and uncertainty of 2017 the lettings market was less frenetic giving potential around the UKs relationship with Europe.
Given the tenants more choice.
In these market conditions each tenant environment, it is testament to the value of our advertising typically sends fewer leads as they are more assured of platform that the number of overseas properties we securing the property they want.
In addition, this takes advertised increased by 6% on average despite the account of the full year impact of changes we made to the number of overseas estate agent and developer search flow in the second half of 2016 to further increase the customers advertising falling by 7%.
In order to help agents become more efficient every lead sent through Rightmove is now about a Our Commercial property advertising business continues specific property.
to gain momentum with commercial property professionals and occupiers spending over 11 million minutes per month 2 Source: comScore, December 2017.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 9 Strategic report | Chief Executives review continued Our focus on the quality of our leads continues to stand us in Average Revenue Per Advertiser increased by 10% to good stead as they convert far more often to instructions, 922 driven by customers spending more on products 3 sales and lets for our customers.
In fact, we generate 86% and packages and price increases.
of the sales and lets from portals for our Agency customers, Innovation to create a simpler and more our fourth year of consecutive growth.
No wonder, when efficient marketplace home sellers and landlords are so much more likely to find Combining our software and whole of market dataset whilst their buyer or tenant on Rightmove compared to any other supported by our dedicated account management teams, we 4 portal, that 85% of people selling their home rank Rightmove help customers drive operational efficiencies and inform their as the most important site for marketing their property.
Our focus is in the areas our customers Winning the right to an instruction to sell or let a property is value most, which in the case of our agents is identifying critical to an agents success.
Over a million of the email leads potential business and winning and retaining that business.
sent by home movers to agents highlighted that they had a Whilst our software tools are already recognised as being property to sell, each one creating an instruction opportunity best in class and widely adopted with 90% of our Agency for a customer.
These were in addition to the instruction customers using our tools each month, it is not in our DNA opportunities that came via our telephone leads, which to stand still and we have continued to innovate our market accounted for around 60% of all leads.
We also delivered intelligence software for agents, Rightmove Intel.
Winning 175,000 leads from people asking for a valuation on their new business is a resource intensive activity for our customers home, for those customers who bought our popular Local and 2017 saw the introduction of a number of reports which Valuation Alert product.
highlight both new and secondary business opportunities Following the acquisition of the Outside View in 2016 we meaning agents can spend more of their time on the most launched our new Rightmove Discoverproduct in July 2017. valuable opportunities.
Using our combined knowhow and Rightmoves unique These innovations have been warmly received by customers.
dataset, Rightmove Discover uses predictive analytics to For example in November 2017 our customers ran over two identify the most likely potential sellers in a local area within the million reports, a remarkable 67,000 reports per day and more next six months and markets to them on behalf of an agent.
than double the number in November 2016.
The early success of Rightmove Discover is encouraging and since launch, we have delivered nearly 16,000 high quality email Rightmove Intel also helps customers more efficiently leads to our customers in 750 areas.
Customers also report an communicate the marketing performance of properties to increase in potential vendors contacting them via telephone their vendors.
The Marketing Report, which shows the interest and their own websites.
Our customers who have purchased a property is generating compared to similar properties on the the product have benefitted from exclusive, early contact from market, launched at the end of 2016, was run on over 400,000 vendors of an equivalent of 5% of resale properties which different properties for sale in 2017, covering nearly a third of came to market in the second half of the year.
all properties listed in the year.
There is significant headroom to grow product revenue as we 2018 will see us continue on this path.
We will be releasing a leverage data to increase the penetration of existing products, number of new tools to help agents become more efficient evolve their value and pricing, and continue to innovate and including a tool to help prioritise vendor enquiries from introduce new products as customers look to invest more to Rightmove and a solution to better manage the process drive their brand exposure and gain market share.
This year of referencing rental tenants in advance of the looming tenant fee ban.
3 Source: Independent software provider to the estate agency industry.
4 Source: The Property Academy 2017 Home Moving Trends Survey.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements We care about our customers business success and building strong partnerships is vital to support their ambitions.
Beyond Rightmove Discover our data continues to provide In parallel with these new events we continue to run our ever the basis for a rich seam of innovation.
Following successful popular webinar series which allows estate agency teams to experiments during 2017, we intend to launch Rightmove learn how to make the most of the Rightmove platforms Active Display in 2018, which will allow our New Homes while also covering industry topics and more general business customers to target their potential audience on Rightmove practices.
In 2017 we ran 170 webinars attended by over based on the home hunters usage of Rightmove over time, 16,500 people.
not just their current search criteria.
Build great teams with a culture to innovate The digitalisation of the property industry and the efficiencies Rightmove is people and our people define Rightmove.
our software and tools bring help to reduce the cost per Rightmove has a culture which is both restless and focused.
Agency office and have also enabled the growth in the We strive to create one team of Rightmovers with as few number of customers.
Over the last 12 months our barriers as possible to rapid growth and innovation.
We believe membership base has grown to close to 20,500 customers.
that this comes from a process-light, highly connected organisation with little constraining hierarchy and bureaucracy.
We care about our customers business success and building It is about employing the right people, giving them the strong partnerships is vital to support their ambitions, freedom and authority to innovate and lead, and then guiding especially in light of the significant digital changes that are them to succeed.
In order to hear the symphonies produced taking place.
To that end we are spending more time with by a well-functioning team we need every Rightmover to be customers than ever before and making sure that more both individually empowered and accountable.
of our conversations lead to recommendations that our customers truly value.
A diverse Rightmove is important to us.
We recognise that a diverse team will provide a wide range of perspectives that In 2017 we evolved our event programme with the promote innovation and business success.
Drawing on what introduction of Rightmove Live.
These events brought is unique about individuals adds value to the way we do together speakers from a range of industries covering content business and helps us anticipate and provide what our applicable to all small and medium sized businesses, with an customers want from us and what home hunters want objective of inspiring and motivating.
Speakers included from the Rightmove platforms.
Dr David Lewis, father of neuromarketing: Nicky Moffat CBE, British Army highest-ranking female officer and Andrew Foremost in the design of our expanded London home, McMillan, Head of Customer Service at John Lewis.
In keeping we have taken care to create a physical environment that with an online culture these events are now hosted on an on encourages open and honest discussion, including social demand platform, meaning our customers can benefit from spaces for the teams to enjoy each others company.
this content irrespective of whether they were able to attend Our workplace is free from offices and the usual trappings on the day.
We also recognise our role in helping our customers keep up We believe in sharing often and early and reinforce this to date with a changing industry.
Bringing together industry through events such as townhalls which share progress, experts covering a range of changes facing agents in 2018, successes and challenges.
In June 2017 the whole of including the General Data Protection Regulation and lettings Rightmove spent a day and a summer night under canvas legislation, Legislation Live was attended by over 250 agents together building and reinforcing cross team connections.
from around the country with a further 600 watching a live stream of the event.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 11 Developing our brand Investing in our market leading brand Our marketing connects with the strong positive emotions that moving home often generates and reaffirms that the UK public moves with Rightmove.
The place consumers turn to first and engage with most With the focus on doing the right thing for both consumers and customers, Rightmove is a trusted and valuable source of property information.
Mr & Mrs Smart and family Rightmove home hunters 12 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Chief Executives review continued By striving to make Rightmove a great place to work, we can attract and retain the best talent and provide the best service for consumers and customers.
Our culture is not solely built on events like these, but Our culture sets us apart from many organisations and is also from the everyday small gestures, including sending defined by everyone of the nearly 500 people who are proud employees monkey puzzle tree seeds to celebrate National to call themselves Rightmovers.
I would like to thank them Tree week or a Rightmove-versary card to mark their first all for creating a culture which continues to drive our anniversary at Rightmove.
Everything together creates a business success.
unique and driven environment that we believe results in Current trading and outlook people feeling a sense of belonging and a passion to perform.
We believe the outlook for the UK online property advertising By striving to make Rightmove a great place to work we can market remains positive, despite the continuing uncertainties attract and retain the best talent and provide the best service stemming from the result of the EU referendum.
Consumers for consumers and customers.
and customers are becoming increasingly digital and therefore Great talent and passion to perform is not enough to make spend continues to transition from traditional advertising a great Rightmover: the way in which we behave towards channels.
each other, our customers and consumers is vital.
We expect Our clear market leadership coupled with the value of the very highest standards of ethical behaviour from all our products and data positions us well for the future.
How we go about our work is central to our With Average Revenue Per Advertiser continuing to recruitment, feedback and personal development processes.
grow from a stable membership base the Board remains We also have a scheme to allow Rightmovers to recognise confident of making further progress in 2018. their peers who embody the behaviours we aspire to.
The biggest influence on our culture, of course, comes from our people.
Their actions and behaviours create the sense of belonging and connection and allow the business to continue to thrive and attract great people.
In our 2017 Have Your Say people survey, 90% of Rightmovers responded that they think Rightmove is a great place to work.
Whilst this is a very strong Peter Brooks-Johnson result, it is below the record high level of 95% achieved in 2016.
Chief Executive Officer T o celebrate those employees who have been part of the Rightmove journey for more than ten years we have continued 23 February 2018 with our well known, although not widely replicated, practice of creating a gnome in their image.
In the fast moving world of today, long tenures with single organisations are becoming rarer so Im pleased that we have expanded our gnome tree to accommodate an ever growing collection of gnomes.
