Chief executives review Strong financial performance underpinned by a 30% operating margin Despite investing in a number of areas across the business during the year, we maintained a leading operating margin of 30.6% 2016: 29.8% through a combination of relatively supportive investment markets and continued net funds growth and cost discipline.
Underlying profit before tax totalled 87.5 million 2016: 74.9 million, generating an underlying earnings per share of 138.8p, an increase of 13.7% from 122.1p in 2016.
In 2017, the group added 4.8 billion gross funds under management organically, split between 3.1 billion in our Investment Management business and 1.7 billion in our Unit Trusts business 2016: 2.3 billion and 1.3 billion respectively.
Outflows from intergenerational wealth transfer, property purchases and other uses of funds to support lifestyle continue unabated in this low interest rate environment.
Net organic growth in this business was 3.0% 2016: 2.9%, which represents a The wealth management sector satisfactory result in an investment climate that was largely remains robust directionless until the end of the year.
Net flows into our Unit Trusts business were very strong however, totalling 883 million The wealth management industry continues to be an exciting in the year 2016: 554 million and helping its total funds under and rapidly changing place to do business.
In 2017, the industry management to reach a record 5.3 billion 2016: 4.0 billion has not only had to navigate a particularly uncertain political at 31 December 2017. climate, but has also had to respond to a considerable amount of new regulation.
Profit before tax for the year of 58.9 million was 17.6% higher than the 50.1 million in 2016 and reflects the impact of a number of Importantly, many positive drivers for long-term private wealth non-underlying items.
A full analysis of these items can be found accumulation are still in place.
The challenge the current climate on page 31. brings is to secure the scale economies and operational efficiencies necessary to respond positively to demographic changes and As reported on page 116, our balance sheet remains stable with a technological advances, whilst reacting to a climate of increasing consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio at 31 December 2017 of price pressure.
Our consolidated leverage ratio at 31 December 2017 was 7.8% compared with 6.6% In this respect, Rathbones continues to be well positioned in at 31 December 2016.
We remain a capital-efficient business, the industry with our own funds under management reaching generating an underlying return on capital employed of 19.5% for 39.1 billion at 31 December 2017, up 14.3% from 34.2 billion at the the year compared to 19.3% a year ago.
A detailed analysis of our end of 2016.
Total funds under management in our Investment regulatory capital position at 31 December 2017 can be found on Management business at 31 December 2017 were 33.8 billion, up page 38.
11.9% from 30.2 billion in 2016, whilst our Unit Trusts business reached a milestone of 5.3 billion, up 32.5% from last year.
12 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 12 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report The output from our research team has increased considerably The journey to 40 billion has significantly over the last two years, as has access to this output, through the improved our capabilities as a firm introduction of a research hub, which disseminates information to Four years ago, I shared an ambition for the firm to reach our growing community of investment managers.
In 2018, we will 40 billion of funds under management by the end of 2018, continue to ensure that we attract the right level of investment and I am encouraged that this goal is within our reach.
Since 2014, skills to support and develop our investment process, but, just as we have delivered a significantly improved investment platform importantly, ensure that the amount of external research we to support our investment teams, built new distribution channels procure is right for us.
MiFID II Markets in Financial Instruments addressing both IFA networks and professional intermediaries, Directive has made some significant changes to the way in acquired Vision Independent Financial Planning, expanded our which external research is priced, delivered and administered, research and specialist investment capabilities, simplified our and we will work hard to keep abreast of developments to secure pricing structures and materially grown our Unit Trusts business.
We have also delivered learning and development programmes to Building our presence in the intermediary market has remained a employees, strengthened our brand profile, improved our website key priority, so a May 2017 report by Defaqto, which confirmed and broadened our marketing capability.
that the use of Rathbones as a discretionary fund management Alongside this demanding programme, we have taken advantage provider to advisers had more than doubled in the last year, of a number of opportunities to deliver inorganic growth through was a good outcome.
Vision Independent Financial Planning team hiring and bolt-on acquisitions.
Our culture of professional made strong progress during the year, growing funds under autonomy with accountability on which our investment management to 1.4 billion 2016: 1.0 billion and continuing to managers thrive, remains very much at the heart of our business, attract quality advisers.
In addition, our specialist intermediary but does place more demands on our ability to manage risk.
Hand team continues to focus on a number of important strategic in hand with this considerable level of activity, we have ensured partnerships, and is now well established.
We expect flows to that we continue to operate a risk and control framework that improve from the 265 million introduced in 2017 to around allows us to adhere to our core philosophies of delivering an 350 million as the proposition continues to gain momentum.
investment-led, highly personal, whole of market investment This year, we deliberately invested in establishing the right service to our clients.
infrastructure to support our internal financial planning teams and further develop the proposition.
We are now able to expand its Investing in the future footprint across more of our regional offices over the next year There are, of course, areas of the business that we must continue and expect to increase the number of professional staff in 2018. to develop to adapt to the changing needs of our clients.
This year, In total, we expect net costs to increase by up to 1.5 million as a we have been reviewing the processes we use to maintain and result.
The Rathbone Private Office became fully operational manage information about our clients, and have made a number during 2017, with a marketing programme positioning the firm of enhancements.
In 2017, we embedded a new way of capturing as a credible alternative for larger and more complex clients, and and evaluating our clients attitude to investment risk and raising its profile within the intermediary community.
significantly increased the usage of asset allocation tools across We remain mindful that current employee ownership in the the firm, with over 97% of discretionary funds now linked to business is culturally important and over recent years there has these tools.
been a decline, primarily as a result of retirement.
From 2018, In 2018, we will continue to keep abreast of evolving client we will seek to correct this by creating opportunities for more suitability standards.
We will also be looking to improve our employees to build a larger element of equity ownership.
account opening processes, making use of a material upgrade to Finally, investment markets inevitably present an element our client relationship management systems and providing more of cyclicality to earnings and stock performance and we will administrative support to ensure that investment teams can continue to monitor this as we review and update our goals for continue to focus on serving our clients well.
com 13 Chief executives review continued Regulation and infrastructure Outlook continue to evolve This year has presented many challenges and opportunities and I fully expect 2018 to do so in equal measure.
Brexit continues to In 2017, we and the industry have had the task of implementing be a regular discussion topic within the investment community, the significant regulatory changes that arise from the introduction but, as a predominantly UK-based firm, our own view is largely of MiFID II and the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR in focused on the wider economic environment and any impact it particular.
Whilst MiFID II has been successfully delivered on time may have on the investments we make for our clients.
and work on GDPR is advanced, these new regimes will continue to require some significant changes to our core processes and I would like to take this opportunity to praise the efforts of our systems, with costs continuing at similar levels into 2018. employees in this eventful last year.
Notwithstanding the demands of our own change programme and a complicated MiFID II, in particular, will have an impact on our Unit Trusts market environment, they have kept the needs of our clients at business, which will bear the full cost of external research in 2018. the forefront of what we do and concentrated on providing an Research costs borne by the funds in 2017 were 0.8 million.
This is in addition to the expected ban on risk-free box dealing profits 2017: 3.1 million following the FCAs Asset Management We enter 2018 in a good position, with industry-leading operating Market Study.
We will look to offset these impacts in profit terms margins and a strong balance sheet.
We will continue to look for by continuing to grow the business and build on the momentum accretive acquisition opportunities and to invest in our future the team has achieved.
Technology continues to be a significant entrant in our sector and I believe it will continue to play a disruptive role in the future if not Philip Howell wholly embraced.
Whilst we are committed to our highly personal Chief Executive approach to providing investment and advisory services, we will continue to invest to capture the opportunities that these new 21 February 2018 technologies can offer to improve our services and operational efficiency while increasing the capacity of our investment teams.
In 2017, we reorganised and upgraded the skills of our IT team, which over the medium term will improve our data management capabilities, enhance our client communications and introduce additional security measures to combat the ever-growing cyber threat.
We expect that this expansion of our IT capability, together with more general cost inflation, will add approximately 2.5 million to our running costs.
14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Chief executives review continued Regulation and infrastructure Outlook Our strategy continue to evolve This year has presented many challenges and opportunities and I fully expect 2018 to do so in equal measure.
com 15 14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017
