Chief Executive Officers review Driving Strategic highlights Solid and sustainable earnings growth in line sustainable with expectations Integration of two bolt-on acquisitions.
PAC Dispersions and Speciality Additives growth successfully completed Launch of SyNovus our innovative patented next generation Nitrile latex Achievement of 20% sales from products launched in the last five years Largest capital expenditure programme in the Calum MacLean Groups history, initiated in 2016, progressing Chief Executive Officer to plan and on time to contribute from Q4 2018 Strong balance sheet leverage 1 times net debt: EBITDA providing flexibility to pursue our strategy I am pleased to report that we have delivered solid growth in Underlying profitability in 2017, with the strong growth in ENA profits more than offsetting the softer but stable ARW profits.
The strong growth in ENA Underlying profitability was underpinned by further organic growth, particularly in our SBR business, the benefits of our focused M&A activity and the associated synergies in 2016 and 2017, and the depreciation in Sterling which favourably impacted our first half results.
ARW Underlying profitability has been resilient, and performed in line with expectations, with Nitrile latex margins broadly stable throughout 2017 at similar levels to the last quarter of 2016.
Positively, and as guided at the start of 2017, the overall Underlying profitability of the Group has moved forward in 2017 with the combination of underlying organic growth, M&A activity and favourable currency impact more than compensating forthe expected softer Nitrile latex margins.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 6.4% from 122.2m to130.0m.
This reflected a 25.5% increase in ENA Underlying operating profits, up from 93.3m to 117.1m and a decrease in ARW Underlying operating profits, lower at 35.1m from 48.7m.
The rise in ENA Underlying profits reflected strong organic growth 16.0m, including a first full year contribution from PAC Dispersions, the 2017 acquisition of Speciality Additives 3.7m and favourable foreign currency translation impact 4.1m.
The reduction in ARW Underlying profits principally related to the expected softening in Nitrile latex margins seen in the last quarter of2016, albeit reassuringly the margins broadly held firm at this level throughout 2017.
IFRS profit before tax decreased by 36.8% from 136.7m in 2016 to86.4m in 2017, reflecting the inclusion in 2016 of large gains onMalaysian land sales 33.2m and disposal of our South African business 4.7m, and the foreign currency hedge gain associated with the PAC Dispersions acquisition purchase price 13.1m.
Cash generated from operations increased to 162.6m 2016: 157.0m and the cash flows were again strong with good conversion of EBITDA to cash.
The cash performance of the business over the year meant that the Groups leverage at the year end was 1 times net debt:EBITDA.
Capital spend increased to a record 60.3m in line with guidance and our stated strategy to invest in our principal sites.
We also invested in our inorganic growth strategy with the acquisition of Speciality Additives, our second bolt-on acquisition, for 66.1m, and completion of our third bolt-on acquisition which took place after the year end on 31 January 2018 for a further 25.7m.
Our strong balance sheet continues to give us options for both organic and inorganic investment opportunities to support future growth.
Strategic report Safety, health and environment Delivering organic growth In 2017 we had the best ever recordable injury rate, which was The largest capital investment programme in the Groups history is reduced by 56% relative to 2016, and we are reassured to see well underway.
This will help to maintain and upgrade our current positive movement in our other SHE key performance measures.
asset base and respond to market demand for our products.
This Whilst we are pleased with the marked improvement, this is a programme commenced in 2016 and we spent 60.3m in 2017 consequence of daily attention and vigilance in our working across the Group.
Our Project Excellence approach has been practices and processes, and we recognise that there is no place introduced Group-wide and aims to ensure that all of the projects for complacency in this regard.
The high standards set by the Group are completed safely, on time and within budget.
in relation to safety, health and environment are complemented by the significant investment we continue to make, and our Group SHE Given the global mega-trends of urbanisation, aging demographics, team monitor the Groups adherence to our standards and report on evolving middle class, increasing mobility and the ever more stringent our performance against those standards at each Executive team environmental legislation, there is increasing demand from the market and Board meeting.
for more of our speciality chemicals and for enhancements to our product portfolio, and we have invested accordingly with capacity The Group built on the strong platform of safety standards put in aswell as capability expansions in a number of our sites.
place in the prior year by embedding the SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules in our operations as well as focusing on eliminating Nitrile latex: 90ktes expansion of our Pasir Gudang Malaysia theopportunity for work to be carried out in an unsafe way or unsafe sitedue for completion in late 2018 with a further expansion in environment.
A rolling programme of Process Hazard Assessment anadvanced stage of planning to address a market which is Revalidation has been completed on all our high risk sites and growing at 8% to 10% per annum.
prioritised action plans are being implemented to address identified Dispersions: 36ktes capacity of made-to-order speciality acrylic gaps.
This programme will be expanded to all sites in 2018. lines in Worms Germany and a 9ktes increase in acrylic capacity in Roebuck USA scheduled to be complete in early 2019.
Strong progress has been made in our commitment to the SBR latex: Enhancement to our Marl Germany site to improve environment with a 10% reduction in VOC emissions through output levels to take advantage of opportunities in the Foam making operational changes in our sites, particularly the UK.
Market and an upgrading of our Oulu Finland site to move from Withthe M&A activity adding new sites to our network, we are in supplying the declining graphic paper market to the growth theprocess of setting new targets for all our environmental key markets of speciality paper and packaging.
We continue to invest in the organisational structure and, over Innovation thelast 3 years, have established teams in Operational and In 2017, sales of new products launched in the last five years was Manufacturing Excellence, Business Development and Specialist again 20%, in line with 2016 and meeting our stated target.
In 2018 the programmes will be further excited at the launch of more new products in 2017 with the major enhanced by the introduction of our Commercial Excellence launch being our new and patented Nitrile latex, SyNovus.
The new programme to our commercial organisation, designed to ensure product launch of SyNovus represented a further milestone for our wework more closely with our customers in generating value.
innovation team in Malaysia, reducing the development time from inception to commercialisation, including patenting the proprietary Delivering M&A growth technology, to just 18 months.
The shortened innovation process, Growth through acquisitions is a key part of our growth strategy.
representing a reduction of almost 50% on previous new product Weare highly active in targeting and reviewing speciality chemical developments, is a testament to the dedication, skill and expertise acquisition opportunities.
These will include both bolt-on of our in-house R&D team.
acquisitions, similar to the ones we have completed, and more transformational step-change strategic transactions in adjacent This patented product delivers significant value to both our chemistries.
Our experienced M&A and due diligence teams will customers and the end user markets as the SyNovus formulation beopportunistic but disciplined in their approach to acquisitions.
significantly reduces the required operating temperature of glove manufacturing lines, reducing both energy costs and the associated We have made three speciality chemical company acquisitions in environmental impact.
It also reduces maturation time thus enabling the last two years, all bolt-on acquisitions complementing our glove manufacturing lines to run at higher throughput providing existing businesses, and have reviewed many other opportunities manufacturers with increased capacity without capital expenditure, that have not resulted in completed acquisitions.
Whilst we remain and additionally eliminates certain additives introduced to Nitrile highly active in M&A processes, we have a clear focus on what latex formulations reducing the risk of potential allergic reactions constitutes an attractive acquisition target, what price we are with end users.
prepared to pay and a firm commitment to incisive due diligence.
We will remain resolute and disciplined in pursuing only the right These benefits, coupled with superior tensile strength, improved value-enhancing opportunities.
colour and reduced odour resulted in a positive, well-received product launch in Kuala Lumpur with over 150 glove manufacturing Outlook leaders and guests in attendance.
Looking forward, whilst acknowledging the ongoing challenges inour Nitrile latex and constructions and coatings Dispersions M&A integration markets, we are confident of making further solid progress in 2018, With three acquisitions, PAC Dispersions, Speciality Additives underpinned by underlying growth in both segments, and from andBASF Pischelsdorf, over the last two years, and ongoing integrating our recent acquisitions.
discussions in relation to transformational and further bolt-on acquisitions, our ability to successfully integrate is crucial to With our significant organic investment in new capacity being capturing value.
We are pleased with the progress made in the commissioned in late 2018, we remain confident in continuing to integration of PAC Dispersions and Speciality Additives and are deliver growth in profitability and driving further value for already implementing a detailed plan for the BASF Pischelsdorf shareholders in future years.
The integration of PAC Dispersions is substantially complete with the final two major actions initiated in 2017, the sale of the Leuna Germany site and the announcement of the restructuring Calum MacLean of Ribcourt France site.
We are on target to deliver the run rate Chief Executive Officer synergies of $12m by the end of 2018, with a further $2m run rates 1 March 2018 savings to be delivered in 2019.
