10 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW I AM PLEASED TO REPORT THAT IN 2017 WE SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED OUR INVESTMENT COMMITMENTS, WHILE MAINTAINING OUR TRACK RECORD OF STRONG RESULTS.
THIS WAS ACHIEVED DESPITE THE IMPACT OF LOWER POWER PRICE FORECASTS WHICH AFFECTED A NUMBER OF OUR RENEWABLE ENERGY INVESTMENTS AND WITHOUT THE BENEFIT OF THE SIGNIFICANT FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN IN 2016.
Outlook for our markets The highlights included: The overall market for greenfield infrastructure is driven by a number of factors, but especially population growth, urbanisation 10.5% increase in NAV, from 1,016.8 million and climate change.
In the case of urbanisation, some at 31 December 2016 to 1,123.9 million at commentators forecast that within 20 years, two out of every 31 December 2017: three people will live in a city.
Other factors which influence 13.5% increase in NAV including dividends infrastructure spending include governmental policy towards paid in 2017: regulation and investment, the demand for energy and the availability of capital, both private and public sector.
NAV per share at 31 December 2017 of 306p 31 December 2016 277p : Most of these factors apply to each of the sectors in which we operate: transport and transport-related infrastructure, New investment commitments of such as roads, tunnels, bridges and rail assets: environmental 382.9 million 2016 181.9 million : infrastructure, such as renewable energy, water treatment and Realisations of 289.0 million from the waste management: and social infrastructure, such as schools sale of eight investments: and hospitals.
We are proud of the fact that many of the assets we invest in provide a public benefit.
Profit before tax of 126.0 million compared to 192.1 million in 2016: We operate in a wider infrastructure market in which there has been historical under-investment.
This provides a strong 12% increase in external Assets under incentive for governments to use public private partnerships Management AuM to 1,648.5 million: PPPs to procure greenfield infrastructure.
As well as access Cash yield from investment portfolio of to private capital, PPP arrangements enable governmental 40.2 million 2016 34.8 million : and and other public sector bodies to benefit from fixed price arrangements which transfer very significant risks to the Final dividend of 8.70p per share, giving private sector, especially design, construction and operational a total 2017 dividend of 10.61p per share delivery risks.
The growing international adoption of PPPs as 2016 total dividend of 8.15p per share, a procurement model for infrastructure is acknowledged by an increase of 30.2% from 2016, before the World Bank which publishes a PPP Reference Guide.
adjustment for the rights issue.
Our Primary Investment teams benefit from a robust and diverse pipeline of future opportunities in each of the three regions where we currently operate: North America Canada and the US : Asia Pacific Australia and New Zealand : and Europe including the UK.
We have focused strongly on developing our relationships with international partners, including construction companies, rolling stock manufacturers and renewable energy developers and this is resulting in more investment opportunities.
We entered 2018 with strong positions in nine shortlisted PPP consortiums and with four exclusive renewable energy opportunities.
North America: six of the nine shortlisted PPP positions are for potential investments in North America.
In Canada, we continue to see a strong commitment to PPPs from federal authorities, as evidenced by the recent establishment of the Canadian Infrastructure Board.
The most active province is Ontario, especially in the transport sector.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 We have a proven business model and we believe we are in a good position to take advantage of opportunities for investment in greenfield infrastructure in a growing market.
Olivier Brousse CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In the US, 2017 has been a breakthrough year for John Laing.
Asset Management: we actively manage our own Primary We have taken advantage of increased activity in PPPs, and and Secondary Investment portfolios and provide investment made further investments in renewable energy.
The US is advice and asset management services to two external a market where procurement for greenfield assets takes funds, John Laing Infrastructure Fund JLIF and John Laing place predominantly at state or city, rather than federal, Environmental Assets Group JLEN, through John Laing level, and where the need for greenfield infrastructure has Capital Management Limited JLCM, which is regulated been highlighted by states or cities introducing specific by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
local tax increases to raise funds for new assets required.
Our business model is based on our specialist infrastructure Asia Pacific: we remain very active in the PPP markets in investment and asset management capabilities and the both Australia and New Zealand.
In Australia, following a continuing demand for operational infrastructure assets as very successful year in 2017, we see fewer PPP projects an attractive investment class.
reaching financial close in 2018, but a very active pipeline We aim to invest in new greenfield infrastructure projects which, thereafter.
In renewable energy, we have benefited from post-construction, produce long-term predictable cash flows the impetus given to the market by the Federal Renewable that meet our rate of return targets.
The projects we invest Energy Target in Australia.
in are held within special purpose vehicles SPVs which we Europe: three of the nine shortlisted PPP positions are often in conjunction with other investors fund with equity, for potential investments in Europe.
While the PPP market and which are structured so that providers of third party debt in some European countries remains subdued, we are finance have no contractual recourse to equity investors beyond concentrating on those jurisdictions which have, or will be, their equity commitment.
initiating active PPP road programmes, such as the The principal value creation mechanism inherent in our business Netherlands, Spain, Germany and Norway.
While the model is the difference between the hold-to-maturity IRR at the political climate in the UK is currently not favourable financial close of a greenfield investment and the discount rate towards PPP, it only accounts for 5% of our total pipeline.
applied to that investment once the underlying project has Outside the current pipeline and beyond the PPP and renewable reached the operational phase.
Although we have in recent energy markets, we continue to research other infrastructure years experienced pressure on hold-to-maturity IRRs as our asset classes that could potentially fit our business model in Primary Investment teams bid for new greenfield projects, this order to feed future growth.
The due diligence we carry out has typically been accompanied by a reduction in secondary before investing in new markets follows a rigorous process that discount rates.
This has allowed the Group to maintain attractive eventually rules out many opportunities.
Over the last three years, yield shifts which drive one of the principal measures applied we have made our first investments in managed lanes and in to the Groups investments, namely annualised rate of return.
offshore wind, and expect these sectors to offer a number of When investments become part of our Primary Investment investment opportunities in the future.
We also continue to portfolio, their value should grow progressively with a reasonable research new geographies where we see potential opportunities degree of predictability as the underlying assets move through to invest alongside established partners at appropriate returns.
the construction phase and their risk correspondingly reduces.
These include selected countries in Latin America and South Once the projects reach the operational stage, investments East Asia.
move from our Primary to our Secondary Investment portfolio where they can be held to maturity or sold to secondary market Business model investors, who are targeting a lower rate of return consistent Our business model has three key areas of activity: with the reduction in risk.
Primary Investment: we source, originate, bid for and win Our asset management activities focus on management and greenfield infrastructure projects, typically as part of a reduction of project risks, especially during the construction consortium in the case of PPP projects.
Our Primary phase, and enhancement of project cash flows.
The latter involves Investment portfolio comprises interests in infrastructure identifying and implementing value enhancement initiatives that projects which are in the construction phase.
can increase future cash flows to project investors compared to those originally forecast at the start of the project.
We look at Secondary Investment: we own a substantial portfolio a wide range of such value enhancements.
Opportunities may of investments in operational infrastructure projects, arise at any time during a projects life and may vary significantly almost all of which were previously part of our Primary from one investment to another.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 12 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Objectives and outcomes Growth in the value of external AuM and related fee income Our overall strategy is to create value for shareholders through Our strategy to grow the value of our external AuM is linked originating, investing in and managing infrastructure assets to our activities as an investment adviser to JLIF and JLEN.
In that respect, we see NAV growth and dividends JLCM not only advises and provides management services as key measures of our success: to the portfolios of JLIF and JLEN, but also sources new investments on their behalf.
During the year, both JLIF and In 2017, our NAV grew by 10.5% from 1,016.8 million at JLEN successfully undertook secondary equity issues and 31 December 2016 to 1,123.9 million at 31 December 2017. made acquisitions both from John Laing and from third parties.
This was 13.5% if we add back the dividends paid in 2017.
Both funds have the benefit of a right of first offer over certain We are proposing total dividends of 10.61p per share for investments should they be offered for sale by the Group.
2017 compared to dividends of 8.15p per share for 2016.
During the year, the value of external AuM grew from This represents growth of 30.2% over 2016, reflecting the 1,472 million to 1,649 million, an increase of 12%.
significant increase in realisations during 2017.
Fee income from external AuM was 16.7 million for 2017, up from 15.8 million in 2016.
To deliver our strategy, we have set ourselves the core objectives below, while maintaining the discipline and analysis required Management and enhancement of our investment portfolio to mitigate against the delivery, revenue and operational risks associated with investments in infrastructure projects: For John Laing, being an active investor means not only participating actively in consortiums at the bidding stage, but growth in primary investment volumes new investment also being actively involved in the project during the construction capital committed to greenfield infrastructure projects phase in order to protect the value of our investment and over the medium term: provide advice and or assistance when delays occur or problems growth in the value of external AuM and related fee arise.
This time last year, we reported on the work of our team income: and on the New Royal Adelaide Hospital project in helping to resolve the sometimes competing priorities of the Government of management and enhancement of our investment South Australia, the bank lending consortium, and the portfolio, with a clear focus on active management during construction contractor.
This situation had arisen principally construction, accompanied by realisations of investments because construction of the hospital had been delayed.
At the which, combined with our corporate banking facilities half year, we reported that the hospital had successfully and operational cash flows, enable us to finance new achieved technical completion in mid-March 2017 followed by investment commitments.
Our team played a key part in the achievement of this stage.
Patients were first Growth in primary investment volumes over the medium term admitted to the hospital in early September 2017.
We operate in a broad market for new infrastructure with a Like many assets in the early operational stage, certain aspects strong pipeline of future opportunities.
of service provision are still being addressed and, as we have Throughout the year, we maintained a disciplined approach to previously reported, remaining disputes are being dealt with making new investments.
Using detailed financial analysis and through a process of arbitration.
The important thing from our investment appraisal processes, we assess the specific risk perspective is that the hospital is delivering under its contract profiles for each prospective investment with the aim of optimising to the people of South Australia.
risk-adjusted returns and securing only those new investments As regards Manchester Waste, we reported in September 2017 which are likely to meet the investment appetites of secondary that our investment in Manchester Waste VL Co had been market investors when the underlying assets become operational.
acquired by the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority Our resources are concentrated on countries or geographical GMWDA.
While this resulted in a reduction compared to the regions carefully selected against five key criteria: value of this investment at 31 December 2016, it is important to note that the cash received of 23.5 million, together with a stable political, legal, regulatory and taxation framework: previous distributions, resulted in a positive return on the a commitment to the development of privately-financed investment versus our original commitment in 2009.
We remain infrastructure: shareholders in Manchester Waste TPS Co where the underlying asset, a combined heat and power station which the ability to form relationships with strong supply chain burns refuse-derived fuel, is performing well.
partners, preferably companies we have worked with before: We regularly apply our active management skills when issues the likelihood of target financial returns, on a risk-adjusted arise.
Wherever we operate, we believe our investing, basis, being realised: and contracting and banking partners appreciate and value the the existence of a market for operational investments or a investment experience and active management we provide.
strong expectation that such a market will develop.
We continue to make good use of this expertise to monitor and guide our investments through construction while Our total commitment to new investments in 2017 was protecting investment base cases and, where appropriate, 382.9 million, made up of 142.5 million in renewable energy seeking to find additional value.
and 240.4 million in PPP assets.
This was a record level for John Laing and significantly ahead of investment commitments At 31 December 2017, our portfolio comprised investments of 181.9 million in 2016 and our guidance.
Our international in 41 infrastructure projects plus our shareholding in JLEN growth continued with all our investment commitments being 31 December 2016 42 projects plus shareholding in JLEN.
made outside the UK, including the following: Our year end portfolio value, including the shareholding in JLEN, was 1,193.8 million 31 December 2016 1,175.9 million.
I-66 Managed Lanes US 118.0 million The portfolio value decreased by 142.8 million as a result of Rocksprings Wind Farm US 62.9 million cash flows in the year, with proceeds from realisations and cash yield received from project companies partly offset by New Grafton Correctional Centre Australia 79.3 million cash invested in projects.
Fair value movements of 160.7 million, Melbourne Metro Australia 43.1 million.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 or 15.6% of the cash rebased portfolio value, increased the The Groups facilities enable us to issue letters of credit and or portfolio value to 1,193.8 million at 31 December 2017.
This put up cash collateral to back investment commitments.
We growth is analysed further in the Portfolio Valuation section.
finance our new investments through a combination of cash flow from existing assets, the above corporate banking facilities The portfolio valuation represents our assessment of the fair and realisations of investments in operational projects.
value of investments in projects on a discounted cash flow basis and assuming that each asset is held to maturity, other than Organisation and staff shares in JLEN which are held at market value.
At 31 December Our staff numbers were 158 at 31 December 2017 compared 2017, investments with availability-based cash flows made up to 160 at the end of 2016.
We now have 39% of staff located 58.8% of our portfolio by value.
outside the UK 31 December 2016 36%, consistent with our The cash yield in 2017 was 40.2 million 2016 34.8 million, increasing internationalisation.
a yield of 7.4% 2016 7.6% on the average Secondary In January 2018, we initiated an internal reorganisation under Investment portfolio, in line with our guidance of a 6.5% to which the Primary Investment and Asset Management teams 8.5% yield.
Cash yield represents cash receipts in the form of in each of our three geographical regions will in future report dividends, interest and shareholder loan repayments from to a single regional head, each of whom in turn reports to me.
project companies and listed investments.
The principal objective behind this revised structure is to enable During the year, we agreed realisations totalling 298.9 million, us to focus more effectively on value creation in each region, including the agreed sale of five UK PPP investments to JLIF while allowing our business to scale up.
for a total of 104.6 million, one of which is not expected to I visited our international offices regularly during 2017.
We are complete until later in March 2018.
This left us with realisations lucky to have high quality individuals and experienced teams for 2017 of 289.0 million which were well ahead of our original across our business and it is my privilege to thank them for all guidance for 2017 of approximately 200 million.
As I have said before, our success Consistent with our self-funding model, we are actively depends on our people.
considering a number of realisations which are yet to be confirmed.
One potential realisation, which is at a reasonably Current trading and guidance advanced stage, is the disposal of our remaining 15% Our total investment pipeline at 31 December 2017 was shareholding in IEP Phase 1 which could be announced in 2,150 million and includes 1,585 million of PPP opportunities the next few weeks.
looking out three years as well as nearer term renewable energy opportunities of 565 million.
Within the pipeline is one preferred The percentage of our portfolio value attributable to UK bidder position related to the MBTA fare collection project in investments has fallen from 58% at 31 December 2014 to 34% Boston, US as well as nine shortlisted PPP positions with an at 31 December 2017. investment opportunity of approximately 200 million and four exclusive renewable energy positions with an investment Profit before tax opportunity of approximately 150 million.
The current pipeline Our profit before tax was 126.0 million in 2017, compared to does not include potential opportunities in new jurisdictions 192.1 million in 2016.
Profit before tax is primarily driven by or take account of late entry investment opportunities which the fair value movement on our investment portfolio.
in the Portfolio Valuation section, the main reasons for the lower fair value movement were: As stated earlier, we achieved a record level of investment commitments in 2017.
As our investment pipeline continues to The impact of lower power price forecasts 54.8 million grow, our aim is to keep on growing investment commitments, negative in 2017 compared to 17.6 million negative in 2016 : but not necessarily year on year, giving our teams the time to Adverse foreign exchange movements 11.0 million select the best opportunities.
In 2018, our guidance is for negative in 2017 compared to 74.7 million positive in 2016, investments commitments of approximately 250 million.
as a result of the significant weakening of Sterling in 2016 : We expect realisations to be at a broadly similar level to our investment commitments, consistent with our self-funding model.
offset by: As set out in the Chairmans statement, we have today launched A higher value uplift on financial closes 50.1 million in a 1 for 3 rights issue to raise 210 million, net of costs, which 2017 versus 31.0 million in 2016 : will enable us to take advantage of a higher proportion of the Higher value enhancements and other changes attractive investment opportunities currently available to the Group.
With the benefit of the rights issue, we will have greater 15.1 million positive in 2017 versus 17.2 million negative in 2016, including in 2017 the value reduction ability both to position ourselves for, and execute on, investment commitments in excess of 250 million in 2018. in the Manchester Waste investments: and We have a proven business model and we believe we are in a A benefit from revised macroeconomic assumptions of 4.1 million 13.8 million negative in 2016. good position to take advantage of opportunities for investment in greenfield infrastructure in a growing market.
Since we Funding re-listed in 2015, we have delivered steady growth despite changing governmental policies and macroeconomic In October 2017, the Groups corporate banking facilities were environments.
Against this background, we have confidence increased from 400 million to 475 million.
The facilities in the future.
comprise a five-year committed corporate banking facility and associated ancillary facilities, all of which expire in March 2020.
The Group also held surety facilities of 50 million backed by two 25 million committed liquidity facilities both expiring in March 2018.
In early 2018 these liquidity facilities were Olivier Brousse extended to February 2019.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
