CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Delivering sustainable growth with risk-balanced investment It has been an important year of progress for Vectura.
We have delivered a good set of financial results, in line with market expectations, Our core values and our key inhaled flutiform and Ultibro Breezhaler products have continued to show strong in-market growth.
We have progressed our enhanced therapy pipeline, extended our valuable generics portfolio PATIENT FOCUS and delivered our merger integration plans in terms of both financial synergies and the establishment of the AsOne Vectura Group culture and values.
Despite these achievements, Vecturas performance in INNOVATION 2017 has been partly overshadowed by the delay in the approval of VR315 US, our generic Advair programme.
COLLABORATION It was certainly disappointing to receive a complete response letter CRL in May but our confidence in the approvability of VR315 US has not changed.
Only three companies have publicly stated that ACHIEVEMENT they have filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA for an AB-rated substitutable product and all three applicants had their submissions rejected.
Although tough, the experience we have Read more on pages 64 to 69 gained through the review process and feedback we have received in relation to the formulation and device elements of the programme give us even greater conviction that we are one of the very few companies which has the capability to meet the FDAs high standards to develop complex inhaled generic drug-device combinations.
Ourconfidence in our drug formulation and device capability, the heart of what Vectura does, is reflected inour increased investment focus and our belief in the future valuation of our expanding generics portfolio.
Our belief in the value of our rare generic capabilities was further validated by Sandozs decision in June 2017 to partner the VR2081 pMDI US generic development programme.
This was after we had already received our VR315 CRL.
Given that Sandoz has its own Advair generic in development, its choice of Vectura for this new development wasan important further validation of our capabilities.
Strategy Vecturas strategy and vision remain unchanged.
Our goal is to be the industry-leading inhaled drug-device development specialist, enabling us to deliver on our purpose to transform the lives of airways disease patients.
Our strategy is to fully leverage our differentiated technology and skills, maximising value through partnered generic drug-device combinations and enhancing the inhaled performance of existing molecules.
We will do this by continuing to invest and grow our business alongside demonstrating strong financial and capital allocation discipline.
We aim to develop a strong portfolio, primarily partnered to share the risk and cost of development, and to progressively develop assets in niche specialist disease segments.
Our current revenues result primarily from partnered sales in the largest respiratory disease segments of asthma and COPD.
Over time, smaller niche disease areas will increasingly become an important revenue source and itis in this market segment that we would look to establish a successful specialist commercial product portfolio.
The plan is one of organic growth supplemented by the potential toacquire products with in-market revenues and specialist customer capabilities in the US.
STRATEGIC REPORT Future  of our specialist assets remains an Our strategy remains one where we are pursuing growth whilst, option open to us but only as part of a wider commercial portfolio.
atthe same time, maintaining and demonstrating strong financial management and capital allocation discipline.
"Vectura has a well-established business with proven capabilities and a simple differentiated business model which can be described Operational highlights in three simple steps: firstly, inhaled drug formulation and licensing: In-market portfolio secondly, inhaled device design, development and licensing: and Our key inhaled growth drivers, flutiform and Ultibro Breezhaler, thirdly, our ""sweet spot"", where we combine the drug formulation have continued to perform strongly in market."
flutiform generated and device work together and license a combined development in-market sales of 206.2m, up 11.8% on a constant currency programme to partners.
"We hit this ""sweet spot"" when we maximise basis, contributing 68.5m to underlying revenues for Vectura the integrated combined IP, technology and skills across our platforms 2016 underlying: 65.8m."
and teams and it is at this point that we can create the highest Mundipharma continues to focus on driving growth for flutiform value returns from our partners.
and is making steady market share gains in a highly competitive We have a well proven track record of value creation through this and mature European ICS LABA market, reporting value growth of model with some of the worlds biggest pharma companies.
Typically, 5.0% on a constant currency basis.
Outside of Europe, Mundipharma our formulation licensing expertise is seen in the revenues from has continued to drive strong growth of 32.5% in 2017.
As anticipated novel patented molecules for inhaled delivery including Novartis in our interim statements, Vecturas 2017 reported revenues were Ultibro Breezhaler and GSKs Ellipta portfolio.
Proprietary device impacted by destocking which was driven by partner working licensing is arelatively small part of the business, again typically for capitalmanagement.
Bayers Breelib iloprost product and In Japan, which now contributes over 37.1% of total flutiform Ablynxs ALX-0171 novel inhaled Nanobody, both of which use sales, Kyorin continues to make good progress with in-market sales theFOX device, are both examples of this approach.
This performance has given flutiform a market share spot, where we combine our inhaled drug formulation, device of11.5% in the Japanese ICS LABA market.
With a strong respiratory anddevelopment expertise for the enhanced delivery of existing commercial heritage in Japan and the relatively less mature nature molecules or as generic developments, is demonstrated through of the Japanese ICS LABA market, we believe that Kyorin has a solid in-market products such as flutiform and AirFluSal Forspiro.
basis for further strong growth in the future.
Intotal, our partnered model, capabilities, reputation and track record are exemplified in the more than ten partnerships we Ultibro Breezhaler grew in market by 20.6% on a constant havewith leading pharmaceutical companies.
currency basis withtotal reported sales of Ultibro Breezhaler andSeebri Breezhaler exceeding $550m.
Ultibro Breezhaler What we do is technically complex and the way we do it is different.
continues to be the leading LAMA LABA combination ex-US and is Unlike most companies operating in this sector that work on elements maintaining a strong growth profile despite heavy competition from of what we do, few have a proven successful track record of combining Boehringers Stiolto combination.
Following the initial rapid launch and integrating the three key elements of inhaled drug formulation, of Stiolto, its market share is now stabilising with Ultibro Breezhaler device and combined product development.
Additionally, none have maintain its market-leading position and strong trajectory growth the range of skills and platforms that Vectura has developed ranging supported changes to the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive from small to large molecule and biologic formulation through to Lung Disease GOLD global COPD management strategy and a dry powder, pressurised metered dose and novel nebulised device robust clinical data set.
Reported sales for Ultibro Breezhaler were design and development.
In the complex and challenging world also affected by destocking as indicated by Novartis: however, they ofinhaled drug-device development these proven capabilities are reported strong Q4 growth of 26% on a constant currency basis.
rare and difficult to replicate and provide the basis for our sustained and valuable differentiation.
GSKs branded Ellipta portfolio has also grown strongly with annual capped revenue of 9m achieved in Q3 2017.
In order to further accelerate the value leverage of our skills, we have taken the decision to adjust the focus of our investment with Generics pipeline a deliberate shift towards projects with higher value and higher A number of people have asked me why we would increase our probability of success.
Investment priority is being given to projects focus on generics at a time when generics are under huge pressure where Vectura has the highest probability of value creation with in the US.
To date there have been no approvals of complex inhaled known medicines, either as partnered generics or as medicines substitutable drug-device combinations in the US and our own VR315 with enhanced delivery mechanisms, using Vecturas advanced asset has been delayed following the receipt of a CRL.
The answer is proprietary devices.
Vectura will be more selective in identifying quite simple.
partnering and co-development opportunities for novel molecules, focusing only on highly profitable and significant opportunities.
Existing early-stage novel programmes will be out-licensed where the cost, risk and likely returns do not meet our newly defined investment criteria.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED The team has demonstrated great tenacity and resilience and I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks for their contributions and support.
Operational highlights continued formulation and enhanced delivery, we believe that efficacy and Generics pipeline continued convenience of delivery for the patient can be significantly improved.
We should not confuse the overall generics market, including the oral We look forward to sharing details of these projects around the solids market, for example, which is relatively simple and commoditised, time of our interim results.
with the complex inhaled drug-device combination market, which Novel drug-device partnering pipeline remains untapped in the US today.
The inhaled formulation market During the year we have made good progress with continued in 2017 in the US was valued at over $23bn, with less than 1% generic support for the ongoing Ablynx ALX-0171 neonatal RSV Nanobody conversion in key inhaled classes.
This compares to the oral solids development utilising an adapted variant of the FOX handheld market in the US, where over 91% of the prescriptions dispensed nebuliser device.
Ablynx is expected to report Phase IIb results are for generic products.
Vectura, with our partner Hikma, remains inQ4 2018. one ofonly three known companies with an inhaled drug-device combination application for a substitutable generic Advair product In December 2017, Mundipharma informed the Group of its decision VR315 US.
Our unique capabilities have been validated throughout to stop the development of the pMDI triple therapy for asthma and the regulatory review process and the lessons we have learned on COPD VR2076, which was at an early formulation phase.
the VR315 US programme journey put us in a good position going Aligned to our refocused investment strategy, we will now take an for future development of complex generic programmes.
increasingly selective approach to future novel partnered development Following the announcement of the partnering of VR2081, and the programmes, with each programme having to achieve a higher in-licensing of an advanced tiotropium from Pulmatrix, our generics hurdle rate in terms of potential financial returns.
pipeline now includes the three largest current inhaled branded Organisation opportunities in the US.
Following the successful completion of the merger with Skyepharma In addition, following a series of interactions with the FDA, we are inJune 2016, we made huge progress in the integration across the looking forward to the partnering and development of what we business in 2017 and we are tracking above the targeted plan of believe is the leading industry drug-device combination for the 10m annual savings in cost synergies.
We now expect financial Ellipta portfolio.
This portfolio includes, potentially, five separate synergies to total between 11m and 12m by the end of 2018. project opportunities with analyst projections of net sales of A key component of the integration has been the alignment of a approximately $6bn in 2023. new AsOne culture.
Our target culture is supported by a clear set Enhanced delivery pipeline of values and expected behaviours.
These elements were articulated One of the highlights for me during the year was participating in a with the engagement of all Vectura employees and have been symposium about Breelib at the European Respiratory Society ERS incorporated into all the key management frameworks and meeting in Milan.
Breelib, which uses our novel FOX handheld systemsbeing used across the business.
nebuliser, is the new iloprost product device combination sold by our Alongside the merger integration activities, I was pleased to welcome partner Bayer.
This was the first time that Breelib and the FOX Gonzalo fide Miguel and Tony Fitzpatrick to the Executive Leadership device were being showcased at such an event since the product Team.
Both Gonzalo and Tony bring a wealth of experience to was launched.
The compelling data presented at the meeting showed theclinical development and manufacturing operations settings a decrease in the average inhalation time of approximately 48 minutes respectively and have quickly settled into their new roles making per patient per day and is quite remarkable for these very sick positive contributions to, and beyond, their functions.
It provides us with both an enormous source of pride in terms of patient impact as well as Summary important validation of the technical value of these novel devices.
2017 was a challenging year for Vectura.
Despite this we remained TM In addition to Breelib we have made very good progress with our highly focused and we have delivered well against our key objectives.
two leading AKITA budesonide clinical programmes.
The Phase III The team demonstrated great tenacity and resilience and I would like EU adult asthma programme is now fully recruited and we look forward to extend my heartfelt thanks for their contributions and support.
to the completion of this important and challenging project before the With strong in-market product performance and validation of our end of 2018.
The US paediatric programme has also progressed well, teams skills, capabilities and technology during 2017, we enter with the first Phase II patients dosed in Q4 2017, with completion 2018 with a clear, refocused investment strategy and increased expected in Q3 2018. conviction in our ability to create and deliver shareholder value.
Based on the increased conviction in both the differentiation and validation of our devices seen with Breelib, we are now initiating the development of a series of known compounds where, through James Ward-Lilley Chief Executive Officer 20 March 2018 12 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETS Our markets Well placed to succeed in a dynamic and growing airways disease market The airways disease market is currently estimated to be worth After many years of status quo, the dynamics within this market 1 inexcess of $40bn worldwide: population growth and lifestyle are beginning to change with new treatment classes emerging, changes, coupled with increasing longevity and wealth, particularly offering society and patients new ways to treat and control in developing economies, are increasing the disease burden for airways-related diseases.
As a whole, this market is expected togrow Asthma and COPD 1 invalue by 3.5% annually to $56bn by 2025.
Asthma and COPD are expected to remain the largest and most competitive segments with new classes of treatment emerging and Respiratory is a large, attractive market with significant new phenotyping leading to more personalised medicine.
Given the growth in asthma, COPD and specialist disease areas size and scale of these markets, these disease areas are best served by 60 Vectura partnering with pharmaceutical companies which have the $56bn 3.5% CAGR 201525 expertise and infrastructure to sell and market these products globally.
50 Vecturas existing portfolio and existing pipeline are well $40bn 40 placed to benefit from changing market dynamics in the asthma and COPD market 30 The COPD market as a whole is expected to grow from $15bn to 2 in excess of $19bn, with the growth being driven from continued 20 uptake of dual bronchodilators such as Breezhaler LAMA LABA, partnered with Novartis and Anoro Ellipta LAMA LABA, IP licence 10 with GSK andthe emergence of closed triple therapies.
The asthma market as a whole is expected to grow from $17bn to nearly 0 2015 2025 3 $18bn, with growth being driven by the emergence of closed triple RSV respiratory syncytial virus 16.0% therapies such as QVM149 ICS LAMA LABA, partnered with Novartis IPF idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 13.6% andbiologic therapies expected to grow strongly from a small base PAH pulmonary arterial hypertension 1.9% offsetting genericisation of the ICS LABA class VR942, co-developed CF cystic fibrosis 13.1% COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 2.8% with UCB, now available for license.
Asthma 0.5% 1 Sour ce: Global Data Reports, Internal Projections where Global Data 2 Decision Resources Pharmacor COPD October 2016. not available at 2025, Decision Resources.
3 Dec ision Resources Pharmacor Asthma March 2017.
Growth drivers: LAMA LABA and fixed-dose combinations FDC triples in COPD and biologics and FDC triples in asthma 2025 Asthma 2015 COPD Dynamic 2025 COPD 2015 Asthma Dynamic Biologics LABA LAMA ICS LAMA LABA LAMA ICS LABA Too early to forecast based on limited information.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 13 MARKETS CONTINUED Vecturas existing portfolio and existing pipeline are well Generic erosion is expected to have the most impact in ICS, ICS 7 placed to benefit from changing market dynamics in the LABA and LAMA classes.
asthma and COPD market continued Significant growth in these classes is likely as substitutable products With diagnosis and treatment rates improving, particularly in emerging are approved: however, the large volumes and value opportunities markets, we expect to see volume growth in the ICS LABA class to are made up of a limited number of large individual opportunities, continue to treat asthma.
e. g. Seretide Advair, Symbicort, Spiriva and QVAR.
Technology barriers remain, making inhaled generics a specialist area.
Vecturas generic ICS LABA assets for the treatment of asthma The ICS LABA class is expected to remain the largest and at present On-market assets Pipeline assets Advair and Symbicort remain the largest brands within this class in the US.
Vecturas pipeline asset VR315 US is one of only three flutiform EU and RoW, excluding Japan, VR315 generic Advair known AB-rated generic Advair applications that has been submitted partnered with Mundipharma US, partnered to the FDA for review.
withHikma 8 Globally, the LAMA class is expected to be worth $2.7bn by 2025, flutiform Japan, partnered with Kyorin 9 with $1.2bn of this value being in the US and Spiriva remaining AirFluSal Forspiro EU and RoW, partnered thedominant branded product in this segment.
Vecturas pipeline with Sandoz includes VR410 US, a branded alternative to Spiriva HandiHaler in the US.
Asthma and COPD generics inhaled generics Globally, the ICS class is expected to be worth $3.4bn by 2025, class still in its infancy, set to expand rapidly 10 with$3.0bn of this value being in the asthma segment.
Of the Generic penetration is increasing in the EU: however, there is currently totalICS asthma market, $1.4bn of this value is expected to be very little generic penetration in the US.
Globally, the use of generic 11 inthe US.
Vecturas pipeline includes VR506 US, which targets medicines is growing.
In the US, the inhalants market was estimated thisgrowing market.
5 to be worth some $23bn in 2017, with less than 1% generic 6 conversion in key inhaled maintenance classes.
This trend is set tochange as a number of inhaled products reach patent expiry in Read more about our generics pipeline on pages 40 and 41 the US, with generic entrants expected over the coming years.
Airways disease market growth drivers Rapid scientific and Expanding patient populations  The world population is expected to rise from its current level Advances in science and technology innovation are critical if 13 of some 7bn to 8.5bn by 2030 according to the United Nations we are to address unmet medical need.
Existing drugs will and, alongside this population increase, life expectancy is also continue to be important in meeting the growing demand for expected to increase significantly.
Globally, over the same time healthcare, particularly with the increasing use of generic period, the number of people aged 60 years and over will medication.
The use of large molecules, or biologics, has also 14 increase from 901m to over 1.4bn.
Alongside these changing become an important source of innovation, with biologics demographics, the number of people who can access healthcare amongst the most commercially successful new products.
It is expected that generics will take an increasingly larger share of global medicine spend increasing from Unmet medical need 27% in 2012 In most established markets, ageing populations and certain lifestyle choices such as smoking, poor diet and lack of exercise are increasing the incidence of non-communicable diseases, such 16 36% by 2017 as airway-related diseases, which require long-term management.
14 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Specialist markets Specialist diseases with high unmet need are expected Alongside the expected growth in asthma and COPD markets, toshowsignificant growth as therapies become available specialist markets are also expected to grow significantly with 20 high unmet medical need and increasing scientific understanding CAGR $18bn 18 driving development of new therapies.
Patient populations are RSV 16.0% 16 smaller, but significant commercial potential exists and this 13.6% IPF 14 specialist market has less competitive intensity than the larger PAH 1.9% 12 asthma and COPD markets.
CF 13.1% 10 The growing specialist disease segment is well suited to 8 $7bn 6 nebulisertherapy and provides an opportunity for future Vectura 4 enhanced delivery programmes to enhance patient benefit using 2 our smart nebuliser technology.
The nebuliser device market is 0 currently worth c. $630m, and France, Germany, the UK and the 12 US account for 65% of this value.
2015 2025 5 Q4 2017 IMS SMART data for inhaled classes in Asthma and COPD.
No commercial forecast estimates available for ARDS, lung cancer inhaled therapies, 6 Q4 2017 IMS SMART data defined as pMDI and DPI ICS, ICS LABA, LAMAs and LAMA lunginfections outside of RSV or cough.
LABAs and LABAs and newly launched triple formulations.
Note: diseases shown limited by availability of data rather than specific selections.
7 G7, Decision Resources Pharmacor Asthma March 2017 and COPD October 2016.
G7: Abbreviations: PAH pulmonary arterial hypertension: IPF idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: TheUnited States, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Canada.
CF cystic fibrosis: RSV respiratory syncytial virus.
8 Internal projections based on IMS data.
9 Internal projections based on IMS data.
10 Internal projections based on IMS data.
11 Internal projections based on IMS data.
12 Markets and Markets global forecast to 2020.
Read more about our Vectura enhanced therapies pipeline on pages 44 and 45 Downward pressure on healthcare Changing political landscape costs and regulatory challenges Over the past few years, changing attitudes towards globalisation Expanding patient populations and growing unmet medical need and free trade, coupled with concerns over inflation and wages are contributing to higher demand for healthcare services and and, for many, concerns about inequality, have caused significant leading to increased cost pressure within global healthcare systems.
volatility and uncertainty in western markets.
In 2016, these The worlds major regions are expected to see healthcare spending uncertainties were exemplified by the UK vote to leave the increases ranging between 2.4% and 7.5% between 2015 and 15 European Union and the result of the US presidential election.
This background of steadily rising healthcare costs has These trends have continued during 2017 as the Brexit also led to increased scrutiny on drug pricing by governments, negotiations have commenced and further national elections the media and consumers, particularly in the US.
have been held in the UK, France and Germany.
Increasingly, government agencies and insurers are looking for ways to manage increasing costs and, in some cases, are restricting See risks and uncertainties section for access to treatment, slowing the uptake of innovative new medicines.
further details on pages 50 to 54 With continued focus on cost management, it is expected that generics will take an increasingly larger share of global medicine 16 spend, increasing from 27% in 2012 to 36% by 2017.
13 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
14 United Nations World Population Ageing 2015 Highlights.
16 Deloitte Global Life Sciences Outlook 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 15 $bn
