06 07 Chairmans Chief statement Executives statement Robert Rayne Chairman John Burns Chief Executive Operationally we have had another excellent The London office market year, setting a record for remained resilient in 2017 new lettings with 41.5m as both occupier and achieved.
During the year investor demand has been we completed White Collar strong.
Although leasing Factory EC1, a demonstration incentives have increased in of how we regenerate some instances and deals important locations through take longer to complete, the creation of innovative prices remain firm.
In addition we extended a number of Longer term demand will depend on the leases, notably on our major assets at continuing strength of the London economy, Angel Building EC1 and Tea Building E1.
the impact of the UKs final Brexit settlement These management activities have had and what actions the UK subsequently takes.
the impact of increasing income while 482.8m of property disposals reduced While our developments continue to take the debt levels.
Together these provided limelight with their design flair and pre-letting further evidence of the attractions of the successes, it is equally important we actively Derwent London brand to both occupiers manage our income-producing assets which and property investors.
These divide into core income and properties earmarked London office values have firmed during for future development.
In 2017 we had the last year and our NAV rose 4.6% to significant success extending leases and 3,716p per share in 2017.
Our underlying raising income, and this year we have earnings grew more strongly, up 22.4% to opportunities to do more of the same.
94.2p per share principally due to recent development completions.
After a 25% Our focus on designing office space rise in the 2016 final dividend, this earnings with the flexibility that todays occupiers growth enabled us to raise the 2017 require in improving areas and at middleinterim dividend by 25% too.
We have now market rents continues to serve us well.
reverted to a growth rate closer to our long The average topped-up rent on our term trend and propose raising the 2017 London office portfolio is an undemanding final dividend by 10.1% to 42.4p per share.
50 per sq ft. During 2017 we let the The final dividend will be paid on 8 June remaining available space at The White 2018 to investors on the share register on Chapel Building E1 and all of the White 4 May 2018.
In the nine years since our Collar Factory tower, as well as pre-letting first full year as a UK REIT, our annual or placing under option virtually all of our compound growth in net assets, earnings largest project ever at 80 Charlotte Street and dividends per share has been 13.2%, W1.
The latter has been committed to by 17.7% and 10.4%, respectively.
major international companies, Arup and The Boston Consulting Group, nearly two years ahead of expected completion.
p. 08 p. 09 Continued Continued Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 08 09 With an EPRA vacancy rate of only 1.3%, Chairmans Chief Executives we start 2018 with less immediate space available than last year.
Our current statement statement development pipeline, including Soho Place, totals 908,000 sq ft and is 30% pre-let, and we have a further 165,000 continued continued sq ft under refurbishment which is 54% pre-let.
Our success in letting the available This performance does not include last Helen Gordon, CEO of Grainger plc, Our product and locations are also space will be an important indicator of was appointed as an independent nonmarket conditions and determine the years 52.0p per share special dividend, attractive to investors as we made which was paid out in response to a executive Director with effect from 482.8m of investment sales last year, timing of the other projects in our number of value enhancing transactions 1 January 2018.
We welcome her and 11.8% above December 2016 values.
announced with our last full years results.
her extensive knowledge of the real estate These deals, together with important market.
Tim Kite, who was appointed lease extensions, show the ongoing Following last years major disposals, the We have continued to make highly Company Secretary in 1995, retired in appeal of our buildings which continue Group had cash and undrawn facilities of profitable disposals which, together with October 2017 and we wish to thank him to anticipate the trends in tenants 523m at the year end.
This years special rising underlying property values, have for his valued assistance over the years.
dividend will cost 84m and our expected seen our loan-to-value ratio LTV move His successor, David Lawler, brings with him development expenditure over the next four to exceptionally low levels.
As a result the considerable experience in a similar role.
In addition to 80 Charlotte Street, the years, including Soho Place, is 574m.
Our Board has decided to propose another Brunel Building, Paddington W2 is our other LTV would rise from 13.2% to a proforma special dividend totalling 75.0p per share We have a strategically placed property major scheme due for completion in 2019 24% after allowing for this expenditure.
or 84m which will be paid with the final portfolio and considerable financial and together these total 623,000 sq ft. dividend in June 2018. resources which are greatly enhanced We have largely pre-let the former and are Outlook through the skills of our people and their seeing good occupier interest in the latter.
We have an exceptional pipeline of existing Our developments continue to win awards relationships with occupiers, investors, During 2017 we received resolutions to opportunities, good interest in our product and our Annual Sustainability Report to be local communities, suppliers and advisors.
grant planning consent for an additional and the business is particularly well placed, published simultaneously with our Annual I would like to thank the Derwent London 443,000 sq ft of development at 19-35 despite the ongoing political and economic Report demonstrates our commitment to team for ensuring that we continue to make Baker Street W1 and Holden House W1 uncertainty.
With a robust financial position, the environment and wider stakeholders.
the most of our available opportunities in which means that at the year end we had we are under no pressure to make disposals 1 Highlights from 2017 include White Collar a way that also allows other businesses to 853,000 sq ft of consented potential but rather, we are looking to further grow Factory achieving a BREEAM Outstanding thrive and creates long term value for the schemes.
Included in this is Soho Place W1, our portfolio.
Against this background, and LEED Platinum on completion, the communities in which we operate, as well where we took possession in January 2018 we estimate that in 2018 our average ERV highest levels possible.
Our managed as achieving above average long-term and have now started preliminary works growth will be 2% to -3% and property portfolio achieved a significant reduction returns for our investors.
on one of central Londons most prominent yields will be broadly stable.
Given the projects due for delivery in 2019 are in energy consumption, and the Derwent sites located over the new Tottenham London Community Fund has been Robert Rayne Court Road Elizabeth line station.
already 45% pre-let, we remain confident established for over five years during Chairman in our longer term earnings growth.
Based which time it has invested in 56 different Our developments represent the major on these prospects, we expect to raise our local projects and grass roots initiatives.
27 February 2018 contributor to our income growth.
For the longer term, year end we had 110m of portfolio we have started preliminary works at Soho reversion of which 40% related to rent free Place and have planning consent for a periods and minimum uplifts.
This means number of other exciting future projects.
that 44.2m is already taken into account in our reported earnings.
Therefore John Burns earnings growth will be driven principally Chief Executive by the remaining 65.8m of potential upside.
The letting of developments 27 February 2018 and refurbishments represents 74% of this growth.
1 This figure includes 132,000 sq ft attributable Above: White Collar Factory EC1 to minority interests Strong performance Total property return Total shareholder return BREEAM ratings Tenant retention re-lets Development potential Reversionary percentage Measures the income and Measures our share price Measures environmental impact Measures our ability to retain or We monitor the proportion of our Measures the growth in passing capital return on our portfolio and dividend performance of commercial buildings re-let space following lease expiry portfolio with the potential for rents, assuming the rent increased refurbishment or redevelopment to ERV and all current developments were completed and let Outstanding 8.0% 15.6% 92% 44% White Collar Factory achieved Exceeding our benchmark, Outperforming the Tenant retention of 57% 69% Outstanding, exceeding the MSCI IPD Central London FTSE 350 Real Estate was within our target Within our target our target of Excellent Offices Index, of 7.1% Index return of 13.1% range of 50-75% range of 35%-45% Down from 89% in 2016, reflecting strong letting and disposal activity in 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
