Chief Executive Officers Q&A Justin Ash, Chief Executive Officer What have been your initial We need to be the best in everything we impressions since joining Spire Healthcare?
do caring for our patients, working with I have found that Spire provides outstanding care to thousands of patients our consultants, recruiting and retaining across Britain every day.
our staff, achieving the best outcomes, My many visits to our hospitals and our and delivering value.
CQC ratings show that Spire Healthcare staff are devoted to caring for our patients, I am determined that Spire Healthcare well qualified and dedicated.
Their work is underpinned by good governance will be famous for delivering the very best practices.
Ive seen this in every hospital in quality and clinical care.
Quality will define Ive visited and the many staff Ive met, as well as the patients Ive spoken with.
Spire Healthcare clinical standards are good, with lots of examples of outstanding best practice and interesting improvement projects.
There are, nonetheless, variations in quality.
Three of our hospitals Spire Cheshire, The Montefiore and Sussex hospitals are rated Outstanding by the CQC, and we have excellent equivalent results in Spire Cardiff and Edinburgh hospitals.
Twenty more are rated Good, while some were rated Requires Improvement on their first CQC inspection.
Overall, this puts Spire Healthcare on a par with private sector healthcare standards.
10 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Similarly, Spire Healthcare runs effective A major variance to expectations was I want every member of operations, good local marketing the slower-than-planned build-up of the Spire Healthcare family campaigns and has seen success in the three new sites: Spire Manchester, growing its private patient base.
The estate Spire Nottingham and Spire St Anthonys to judge themselves on is well invested and often innovative, hospitals.
These are all outstanding the quality of the care they for example, developing a da Vinci robot facilities that Im delighted to have in the in Spire Southampton Hospital and knee Group.
Improving their performance will deliver to our patients.
robots in Spire Edinburgh and Bushey be a key feature of our forward strategy.
It has strong central teams, and good local hospital leadership under How do you see trends in Spire its hospital directors.
As with clinical Healthcares markets?
standards, there is also lots of opportunity The trends in our three main payor to be more consistent as a unified group.
groups are connected to a certain degree.
My overall impression is of a good, well-run PMI is currently about half of our business, healthcare provider, with lots of exciting but it remains largely a benefit provided opportunity to improve operational by companies for their employees.
performance, patient recruitment and As such, overall growth in PMI is linked deliver more consistently outstanding closely to the health of the economy quality for the benefit of our patients.
Forward growth in this sector, in the short term, will What was performance like in 2017?
come from growing market share.
I joined in late October 2017, after The independent sector provides valuable a period of some volatility in operating capacity for the NHS as it seeks to deliver performance.
care in the face of well publicised cost, Where our work matters most, with capacity and staffing pressures.
Our patients, Spire Healthcare cared for NHS business is important to us and 269,300 in-patient and daycase patients we will continue to build close working during the year.
Clinical quality remained partnerships with our local commissioners high, with good outcomes and only one and GPs.
Major contracts with NHS trusts incident of MRSA or MSSA, and c. difficile are unlikely to grow in the future, while infection rates reducing further to 0.13 e-Referral is still not fully adopted.
You can read details This provides choice for NHS patients, on this in our Group Medical Directors underpinned in the NHS constitution, review on pages 20 to 25. and Spire Healthcares wide participation in this is an asset.
Overall, we seek to hold Headline financial performance figures share in the NHS market.
can be found in the Chairmans statement, and the CFO reviews them in detail on Our major growth opportunity lies in pages 32 to 43.
The results were mixed those patients who elect to Self-pay.
Spire Healthcare experienced a Their reasons for choosing to pay for reduction in NHS-funded care, especially private treatment vary.
They may wish contracts with NHS Trusts, and NHSto be seen faster as waiting times on the funded care actually declined in the NHS continue to rise, or seek treatments second half of the year.
This was driven that are unavailable within the NHS.
They by cost saving measures by the NHS.
may feel that they can self-insure more Income from Private Medical Insurance competitively and flexibly than through PMI funded care declined slightly, PMI products.
They may just value the while treatment and care for patients convenience of having their treatment who chose to Self-pay increased strongly when and where they want, in hotel-level by 12.0%, an encouraging trend, which surroundings, with well-invested facilities.
Whatever their motivation, the macro market drivers suggest that Self-pay will be our key growth sector.
We intend to grow our market share aggressively in this area.
11 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officers Q&A Continued What are your immediate priorities?
We will continue to invest in our current In the last three months, Consistently high-quality and outstanding estate, with a view to continuing to be the the executive committee clinical care are fundamental to lead investor in the sector.
time, in the short to medium term we will and I have developed our be focused on increasing the return on I think patients see us as good, but strategic framework to capital and cash returns of historical and maybe not the best everywhere and new investments, and cautious about support a renewed focus in truth, while some of our hospitals are further new hospital developments until outstanding, others are less consistent.
the case for them is proven by results.
Raising standards to the highest levels We have put in place five and ensuring consistency of approach How do you see Spire Healthcares and delivery across the Company, in every clear strategic priorities to services developing?
hospital, is our first and last priority.
In a number of ways all aimed at help us achieve the growth We want all our hospitals to be Good increasing patient, staff and partner or Outstanding.
I intend we believe we can deliver.
Spire Healthcare to be famous for both This aims to drive improving its quality of care and its ability to Clinically, we will focus on specific evidence that quality.
elements of our care, including our returns on capital.
patients understanding of their mobility We also need to optimise operational after a procedure, and their comfort with performance, particularly in our recent what drugs to take and how to recover major investments.
I have conducted a effectively on their return home.
We want review of lessons learnt about the cultural to empower our patients to a speedy and operational changes required in recovery and active life.
developing and moving into new facilities, and drawn on my extensive experience of We will continue to develop service buying and opening new healthcare sites.
lines in demand in the private sector, in All three new hospitals are top of my list particular Spire Healthcare has a growing to steer to robust financial performance, paediatric and cardiology capability.
as well as being great centres of patient Operationally, we will have one best way care.
I was delighted that Spire St Anthonys of working in increasing areas, aligning Hospital was recently re-rated Good by all our hospitals around simple, national the CQC and see much evidence that all systems and operating approach one three sites will deliver strong returns.
I am Spire Way of working while leaving pleased to say that Spire Manchester and room for local best practice and strong St Anthonys hospitals are making good leadership by our hospitals senior progress.
Both should be profitable in management teams.
Spire Nottingham Hospital will take We need to improve engagement with further work to achieve its full potential.
our partners, which slipped last year.
We will also rapidly be enhancing Based on targeted understanding of Spire Healthcares marketing capability, consultants and the development of especially digitally, to make our Self-pay their private practices, we will provide offering transparent and easy to access, the support and services that they need.
as well as improving our call services.
We wish consultants to grow their This will support our Self-pay practice with us, and to feel that Spire growth ambitions.
Healthcare is the very best place to bring With more central support, an increased patients, as well as further developing focus on leadership, training and human a mutual respect for the importance of resources, enhanced leadership, and a governance on the granting and overseeing lot of hard work, I am confident Spire of practising privileges.
Spire Healthcare Healthcare will deliver excellent outcomes works hard to ensure that GPs recommend in the months ahead.
patients to us based on sound knowledge of our capabilities and this will continue.
I am also excited by the early success of Spire GP.
People with busy lives are turning to this service for flexible and bespoke care, and we will soon roll this out to all our sites.
12 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information In practical terms, some of the enablers How important is the culture of Spire Accelerating growth and developing the involved include increasing investment Healthcare on the success of the business?
market-leading national brand that makes in digital tools, communication, customer Since joining Spire Healthcare I have spent Spire Healthcare the first choice of all feedback and service development, a lot of time in our hospitals meeting patients but particularly those selfand hospital infrastructure.
many colleagues, and it was clear right paying will depend on outstanding from my first visits that we have a strong, performance, transparency in pricing What do you see as key in helping positive culture across the business.
Our colleagues are passionate about We will seek continuous improvement Sometimes, in healthcare, people get the work they do and the care they and consistency in our relationship with very excited about technology, which provide to our patients.
They are consultants, in the capability of our teams does indeed play a vital role in Spire fundamental to the success of the and in operational excellence at all levels.
business so it is hugely important All this aims to support a steadily improving I get most excited about our people.
to me that they are highly engaged.
return on the recent substantial capital Everything we do depends on them, they The innovative ideas, feedback and investment in Spire Healthcare.
deliver our promise to patients every day.
suggestions that I have heard first hand Simply put, we will aim to run outstanding Healthcare is hard work, requiring from colleagues are invaluable so we have hospitals, totally focused on delivering passion and commitment, be that in introduced mechanisms to further outstanding quality of care, consistently Spire Healthcare or any other provider.
encourage this, along with promoting in all our sites.
Thats how Spire Healthcare I am committed to increasing the training collaborative working across our hospitals will grow to be the UK market leader.
and recognition needed to support and and support functions.
I believe our values engage that commitment, and we have a help demonstrate and represent how we Justin Ash number of initiatives underway to do this.
work together so we will further increase Chief Executive Officer It is also well recognised that in some awareness of these and what they mean 1 March 2018 areas there are shortages of qualified to our colleagues in their day-to-day roles.
This makes it even more important Recognising the contribution of our to attract, train, retain and develop our colleagues is a key element of our culture staff in a much more considered and and I am confident that our new consistent manner.
recognition scheme will reinforce the Success is also linked directly to leadership, importance we place on this.
particularly at the key hospital director and matron levels.
Here we are launching an How do you see Spire Healthcares externally validated programme to identify, strategy developing?
evaluate, train, motivate and develop The summary of our ambitions is that consistently great leaders, to complement we aim to be the most recognised and our many internal conferences and respected healthcare provider brand specialist skills events.
I call that being the go to joining the first cohorts on our new brand in UK independent healthcare.
We will become famous for our clinical Spire Healthcare will continue to foster quality and customer care.
a well-structured environment and culture This will underpin growth in all three that encourages feedback and values ideas, payor sectors.
We will work with the learning and constant improvement.
NHS to see us as their preferred local Should it be needed, Spire Healthcare option for high-quality treatments, and also runs a highly robust and confidential with PMI providers to feel comfortable whistleblowing procedure to ensure signposting Spire Healthcare as the everyone feels free to hold us to account benchmark provider in all our services.
for the highest standards of conduct A high-quality brand will underpin our and care.
communication with people who are You can read more about our focus on increasingly looking for a Self-pay route to human resources in the Our people section fast, effective and personalised treatment.
13 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Chief Executive Officers Q&A Continued Our strategic priorities Famous for quality First choice for Most recommended Best place Best place and clinical care private patients customer experience to practice to work We aim to lead We want to become We aim to We aim to become the We want to be our sector in quality the go to private lead our sector in place where consultants recognised as a and clinical care.
Build on the systems Drive growth across the Build on local excellence Improve our Drive performance already in place to business, with particular and make it consistent consultant relationship through an aligned reinforce best practice emphasis on Self-pay by: across the portfolio by: management by: organisation by: standards of patient improving the improving the a programme of setting clear care by: performance of efficiency of the engagement to capabilities for each increasing clinical new sites: reservation, admission understand their needs role, and supporting resources to assess aligning our sales and and discharge and to meet them: teams to achieve them: and support quality marketing functions processes: using technology to improving employee improvement: to leverage scale bringing these make patient and communications and enhanced clinical and best practice: activities on-line for theatre booking easier engagement to build reviews of all sites, developing advanced ease of patient use: and more flexible: a more confident, so patients can be services to meet doing more to prepare providing proven, purposeful culture assured of Spire emerging needs: and patients for their modern equipment focused on results: Healthcare standards: continually investing stay and for their to support our introducing a new contributing to and in our sites to provide return home: consultants practice: reward and using all available a high quality patient further enhancing ensuring network-wide performance national quality environment.
standards in CMA Compliance: and framework, with information: accommodation rigorously assessing quality as a condition, achieving external and catering: and and governing to encourage accreditations from focusing on top box practising privileges excellence and specialist organisations scores in the Friends so all consultants delivery: in addition to the CQC: and Family test as a who work at Spire strengthening embedding a quality measure of success.
Healthcare represent recruitment with first culture: the highest sector a new centrally awarding incentives standards.
co-ordinated team: and only on the closing our gender achievement of pay gap and being quality standards: and a strong contributor Project Outstanding.
to the communities in which we work.
These strategic priorities are being facilitated by operational excellence, with initiatives including: Workforce planning Best practice telephony Project Outstanding Investing A predictive workflow tool, A technology-led programme Our initiative to deliver our Capital to upgrade and ensuring an effective and safe to raise private pay call clinical and non-clinical standards improve our existing sites skill mix and efficient wards response and conversion.
consistently in order to provide and raise return on capital and outpatient departments.
outstanding quality care, as across the business.
You can read more about this in the Clinical Review on pages 20 to 25.
How will we measure our progress?
CQC site ratings and Patient satisfaction: Annual consultant Employee Revenue by payor Spire audit ratings percentage patients satisfaction engagement: Self-pay growth NJR PROMs Extremely Likely survey scores semi-annual survey above market performance to recommend Competency Return on Invested Unplanned returns to Spire Healthcare assessment and Capital theatre and unplanned Patient satisfaction: continuous readmission rates Quality of care improvement Infection rates Satisfaction on Post-operative discharge mortality rates 14 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
