Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Polypipes balanced business model, underpinned by the long-term growth drivers of legacy material substitution and continuing legislative tailwinds, has helped produce another record performance in 2017.
In my first review since appointment as conduit, potable water, gas and irrigation Chief Executive Officer, I am pleased to pipe product groups.
Following a full report that Polypipe has delivered another review of the business, the Board decided record performance in 2017, with revenue Polypipe France was not core to the from continuing operations 6.3% higher Group and to dispose of it.
Completion than the prior year at 411.7m 2016 of the transaction is expected in the first restated: 387.2m and underlying half of 2018.
I believe this deal represents operating profit 6.0% higher at 72.6m excellent shareholder value and once 2016 restated: 68.5m.
Against a completed will allow the Group to background of mixed conditions in the concentrate on its higher margin product UK construction market, this performance areas.
For the purposes of this report, shows the robust nature of the Polypipe the results of Polypipe France have been business model and the strength of its treated as discontinued.
long-term strategic drivers of legacy I am pleased to say that the Group material substitution and continuing has risen to several commercial and legislative tailwinds in water management operational challenges during the year.
Polypipe continues Following the EU Referendum in June to be cash generative and has reduced 2016 and the subsequent devaluation leverage to 1.6 times EBITDA 2016: 1.9 of Sterling, materials costs rose times leaving the Group well invested and substantially in the second half of 2016 able to pursue bolt-on acquisitions that and into 2017.
While we do all we can complement the Groups current activities.
to ameliorate price increases through The Group will continue to focus on its cost reduction, selling price increases key strategic and operational priorities, were inevitable.
These were successfully and I am confident that we will maintain implemented across the Group in the first revenue growth ahead of the overall UK half of 2017 to mitigate materials and construction market.
other inflationary increases, taking effect In January 2018, the Group announced progressively throughout the period.
that it was in advanced negotiations to Although exchange rates were relatively dispose of its French subsidiary Polypipe stable throughout 2017, increasing oil France to Ryb S. A. a private French prices as well as tight polymer markets business that operates in similar French in the second half of the year pushed markets to Polypipe France, for 16.5m materials prices higher still, and impacted on a cash-free, debt-free, normalised on second half performance.
In 2017, Polypipe selling price increases are being actioned France generated revenue of 58.4m in early 2018 to address this and other and underlying operating profit of inflationary effects.
There is very little strategic good history of cost inflation recovery, overlap between our UK and French even in difficult market conditions, and businesses as they operate in different I have confidence the Group will be product areas, the latter operating in successful with this latest challenge.
the significantly lower margin electrical 22 22 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT In June 2017, a trade embargo was waste pipes.
Towards the end of the introduced between Qatar and many of year, our new 5.0m large diameter the Gulf states following ongoing political continuous corrugator came into disagreements.
With approximately operation at our Horncastle plant.
This 60% of our pipeline projects emanating increases our capacity to manufacture from Qatar, and the more general 750mm and 900mm drainage pipes project financing issues in the wider and allows the Group to make further Gulf in the first half of the year, the inroads in this area of the market.
These decision was taken to temporarily cease new pipes, as well as much of our manufacturing in our Dubai facility, and existing civils drainage pipe offer, are a non-underlying charge of 0.9m was manufactured from recycled milk bottles recorded in our interim results covering and other polyethylene consumer liquid redundancy costs and stock provisions.
bottles using our wash plant recycling During the second half of the year there facility at Horncastle.
We consume has been no change to the situation approximately 44,000 tonnes of recycled between Qatar and the other Gulf states: material representing one-third of the the trade embargo remains in force, and overall material requirement across the general project financing still appears Group, and both of these projects further to be slow as the region adjusts to a enhance our already strong sustainability lower oil price.
While the Middle East still and recycling credentials, something that represents a significant opportunity for is important to Polypipe, our customers the Group, we have decided to pursue an and our wider stakeholders.
alternative manufacturing strategy in the As well as new product technology, region through use of sub-contractors there has been further investment and to close permanently our Dubai in automation in the year to expand manufacturing facility.
All equipment will capacity, but also to test out new be relocated back to our Horncastle plant automation techniques.
We took where Polystorm is manufactured for the delivery of our first collaborative robot in UK market, enabling us to remove the December, which when fully integrated need for more expensive sub-contract into our manufacturing process will manufacturing in the UK.
A further nonfurther improve productivity and quality.
underlying charge of 3.1m has been This advanced, lower cost automation recorded covering machinery relocation technology has the potential to unlock costs, further redundancy, onerous lease productivity opportunities that have not costs and asset impairments, leaving the been achievable previously because of total non-underlying charge for the year technical or financial constraints.
The treatment of Polypipe France in this As well as expanding capacity where report has caused the Group to review its necessary, we continue to invest in both segmental analysis.
The remaining part new product technology and automation of the previously reported Commercial in our businesses.
Our new 2.2m and Infrastructure Mainland Europe multi-layer extrusion lines in our main segment, being our Italian business Doncaster plant became operational in Effast, will be consolidated with the the early part of 2017 which has allowed existing Commercial and Infrastructure us to significantly increase the amount of UK segment to create one segment called recycled material used in manufacturing Commercial and Infrastructure Systems.
our drainage and latterly our soil and 23 23 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW The following tables set out Group revenue and underlying operating profit by COMMERCIAL AND operating segment: INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS Revenue in our Commercial and REVENUE Infrastructure Systems segment was 2016 2.0% higher than the prior year at 2017 restated Change 188.2m 2016 restated: 184.5m.
m m % UK revenue, which accounts for 79% Residential Systems 223.5 202.7 10.3 of the overall segment revenue, was Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 188.2 184.5 2.0 4.1% higher than the prior year, against strong comparatives in 2016.
In the Revenue 411.7 387.2 6.3 infrastructure sector, our Civils business has seen strong demand for stormwater UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT collection, storage and attenuation 2016 products from the new housebuild 2017 restated Change sector.
However, strong demand in 2016 m m % from the Aberdeen Bypass road project, Residential Systems 44.3 39.1 13.3 which finished in early 2017, and delays in the A14 road upgrade and other Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 28.3 29.4 3.7 projects has meant the roads sector Underlying operating profit 72.6 68.5 6.0 has been more challenging.
The dip in commercial project awards seen around The Group gains significant resilience by having a balanced exposure to the different the time of the EU Referendum in the elements of the UK construction market, all of which have different drivers and move at middle of 2016, together with a 12 to 18 different paces, and this years performance perhaps more than most demonstrates this.
month lag before delivery to site for our products, led to subdued demand in the Continued growth in this segment, RESIDENTIAL SYSTEMS commercial sector.
Although the project exacerbated by merchant pull forward of Revenue in our Residential Systems pipeline improved towards the back end orders ahead of the February 2017 selling segment, which is almost exclusively of the year, it is clear that projects are price increase, led to some challenges derived from the UK market, was 10.3% being delayed as the continuing political in the earlier part of the year, notably in higher than the prior year at 223.5m and economic situation in the UK causes capacity planning and logistics.
The year 2016: 202.7m, of which 6.6% is uncertainty.
started with below normal levels of stock volume growth, considerably ahead of Export revenue, which accounts for following some pull forward of orders the market.
approximately 21% of overall segment into December 2016, but as a number Strong demand in the new housebuild revenue, was 5.4% lower than the prior of areas moved into seven day working sector continued to drive growth in year, with the performance in the Middle these stock levels normalised.
Capital the year as the Governments HelpEast driving this.
The large Jebel Ali Hills expenditure on new capacity allowed to-Buy scheme continues to support project in 2016 that was supplied initially us to revert back to more normal shift first time buyers demand.
The Repair, from our Horncastle plant, and later in patterns in those areas during the year, Maintenance and Improvement RMI the year from our Dubai manufacturing and leaves the business well placed to market however continues to be slow, facility, completed in early 2017.
A continue to benefit from the buoyant UK with weak consumer confidence and combination of project customer funding residential market.
falling real wages constraining private issues, and latterly the Qatar trade Residential Systems delivered an RMI, and austerity in Government embargo, meant new projects did not underlying operating profit 13.3% higher spending on social housing stock come through at a pace to compensate.
than the prior year of 44.3m 2016: constraining public RMI.
More encouragingly, exports to Europe 39.1m representing a 19.8% margin performed well, and in particular our 2016: 19.3%.
Italian business, Effast, made good progress.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Commercial and Infrastructure Systems Having successfully delivered the delivered an underlying operating profit necessary actions in 2017 to mitigate of 28.3m 2016 restated: 29.4m polymer and other cost inflation GROUP REVENUE and represents a 15.0% margin arising from the post EU Referendum 2016 restated: 15.9%.
The financial weakening of Sterling, we again need performance of our Dubai manufacturing to pass through polymer and other cost 411.7m facility, including the temporary cessation inflation seen during 2017 and into early of manufacturing in the second half 2018.
While doing everything we can 6.3% of the year, is the main driver behind to alleviate the need for selling price this reduction in operating profit and, increases, we are confident that our as described earlier, decisive actions customers expect us to pass on essential have been taken to improve future increases, and we expect to see the UNDERLYING OPERATING performance in the Middle East.
benefit of these price increases coming PROFIT through as we move into the second OUTLOOK quarter of 2018.
72.6m Following the Groups record Our continued focus on delivering performance in 2017, the current year innovative new products and excellent has started ahead of the same period 6.0% customer service, together with the last year.
Forecasts for 2018 show a strength of our growth drivers of broadly flat construction market although legacy material substitution, continuing the Group has a strong track record legislative tailwinds and our balanced of outperforming the market.
While exposure to the different sectors of the UK RMI market is likely to remain the construction industry, gives the tough throughout the coming year, the Board confidence that despite a mixed strength of the UK new housebuild sector market outlook, 2018 will be another will continue to drive demand for our year of progress for the Group and Residential Systems segment, for which our expectations for the year remain the year has started well.
the UK commercial and infrastructure sectors remain positive in terms of project Martin Payne pipeline, and demand from key road Chief Executive Officer projects such as the A14 road upgrade should gather pace this year, but there is evidence that project starts continue to be delayed, impacting performance in our Commercial and Infrastructure Systems segment in the early part of the year.
The news of Carillions demise in January may potentially lead to further project delays as main contracts are renegotiated and the impact on sub-contractors works through the market.
