Chairman and Chief Executives statement Whilst 2017 was a challenging year for the Group as we faced significant headwinds in our US Generics business, we delivered a solid performance in our Branded and Injectable businesses and our balance sheet remains strong.
I am confident in the prospects for the Group both in the short term and the long term.
40 years of better health Across our other businesses, we delivered a In 2017, we expanded our long-standing 2018 marks our 40th anniversary and gives us solid performance.
Our Injectables business relationship with Takeda, and likewise an important opportunity to reflect not only on was resilient, maintaining exceptionally strong broadened our partnership with Celltrion, our past successes and the millions of lives margins despite new competitors for our top the Korean biopharmaceutical company, upon which weve had a positive impact, but products and benefiting from our strong market to distribute select products in the region.
also to ready ourselves for the future.
We need position in the US hospital segment.
Revenue Our venture capital arm, Hikma Ventures, to remain competitive in todays fast-changing and profitability in our Branded business took us into exciting new businesses in the environment, and the next four decades will remained stable and we reinforced our areas of artificial intelligence, biosensor no doubt require different things of us and our position as the partner of choice in the MENA technology and online healthcare.
business new ways of working, of innovating region, signing new licensing agreements.
and of enabling more and more people to live The Institute of Directors in London ranked healthy, productive lives.
In this letter, I outline Overall, the Group delivered revenue of Hikma first among the FTSE100 pharmaceutical some of our recent challenges, but also our $1.9billion and core operating profit of companies for corporate governance 17th progress and some of the steps we are taking $386million, down from $419 million last year.
We were also awarded to achieve our ambitious goals.
We generated record cash flow from operations Company of the Year by the trade publication of $443 million, lowering our net debt and Generics Bulletin, and are proud to remain A challenging year strengthening our balance sheet, which a constituent of the FTSE4Good.
With more than remains one of the strongest in the industry.
in our communities and improving access 62% of our revenues now generated in the US, to medicine has been a long-established we are increasingly impacted by the changing Transforming our business principle of this company since its founding dynamics of the US market.
The consolidation To ensure we can continue to overcome day, and we continue to support the many of our customers and the increase in the pace obstacles and deliver growth, we are making communities in which we live and work with of ANDA approvals by the FDA have led to some transformational changes across our donations, fundraising and volunteering.
more significant price erosion and more organisation.
We have strengthened our intense competition than the industry has leadership team in the US, bringing in new Enabling collaboration seen in recent years and than we anticipated.
heads of research and development, sales People have always been at the heart of our This had a material impact on our results in and marketing, business development and business the people we employ and the 2017 and, in particular, on our West-Ward a new plant manager.
We have a newlypeople whose lives we improve through the Columbus business, which was further appointed Chief Scientific Officer and we medicines we make.
In addition to bolstering impacted by the delay in approval of our have started the rollout of our new brand.
our leadership, we put in place a new human ANDA for our generic version of Advair Diskus.
capital management system and new global As part of this transformation, we recently intranet to help colleagues work faster, more As a result of these many headwinds, we announced the appointment of Siggi Olafsson collaboratively and have access to better have had to re-evaluate the potential of the as Chief Executive Officer.
Our successful pilot of the Hikma West-Ward Columbus product portfolio and exceptional leader with extensive experience Young Professionals programme in Jordan, R&D pipeline, which we now believe will deliver in the industry.
He is the right person to take a two-year rotational programme developed less than we anticipated at the time of the the business to the next level.
for high-potential and high-performing recent acquisition in February 2016.
As a result, graduates, was expanded across our global we are taking an impairment charge of Progress and recognition network.
It aims to attract talented individuals $1,084million to reflect our updated view Despite the challenges we faced in 2017, it was and instill in them Hikma leadership values of the fair value of this business.
also a year of progress and recognition.
In the through a series of rotations in finance, MENA region, we continue to be the partner of operations and commercial roles.
choice for leading biotech and pharmaceutical companies looking to expand into the region.
4 Strategic report | Chairman and Chief Executives statement Bringing together all weve learned in the past 40 years, and with our new talent, technologies and expertise, we will continue to deliver on our purpose of providing quality affordable medicines to people who need them.
Last year, we said goodbye to Mike Raya who drive efficiencies and improving engagement led and grew our US business for more than with customers and employees.
In his career at Hikma, Mike showed more about our new brand in this report and great leadership and commitment in the on our website, hikma.
many different roles he held, across operations, quality and ultimately as CEO of the US I will end where I started, which is to emphasise business.
While Mike will be missed, he leaves my optimism and confidence of the future of a strong team behind in the US, bolstered by this business, particularly with the introduction several new leaders who I know will help carry of our new CEO, Siggi Olafsson, earlier this year.
Thank you to my colleagues across the Hikma Value for shareholders family for your hard work, loyalty and integrity.
We have a strong track record of delivering value for shareholders.
Since Hikma listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2005, we have delivered a total shareholder return of 361%.
This exceeds the FTSE250 and FTSE Said Darwazah Pharmaceuticals indices.
In 2017, however, Chairman the challenges we faced in the US had a material impact on our share price, which closed the year at 1,134p, down from 1,893p on 31 December 2016.
I am confident that the transformational changes we are making across the Group will enable us to deliver positive returns to shareholders in the near term.
Looking ahead As we look ahead to 2018, I expect we will continue to be impacted by the challenges facing our industry.
I am confident that our new leadership and our strategy built on five growth pillars will enable us to meet these challenges head on.
In 2018, we are also implementing a single enterprise brand strategy that will bring the entire family of Hikma companies under a revitalised and more relevant Hikma brand.
We expect this investment in a new brand to be a catalyst for change within our organisation, helping to 5 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
