"Strategic report Chief Executive review 2017 Group Performance Total Revenue $6,169m 2016: $4,934m 25% 1 Total EBITA $372m 2016: $363m 2.5% EBITA Margin 6.0% ""The acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler in 2016: 7.4% October brought together two businesses 1.4% and three brands to create Wood, a global leader in project, engineering and technical Operating Profit before exceptional items services delivery."
We are a broader business with multi-sector, full service capability $212m across energy and industrial markets and 2016: $244m 13.1% a stronger, more balanced offering in oil & gas.
Integration is progressing ahead of 2 Adjusted diluted EPS schedule with initial cost synergies achieved earlier than plan.
Financial performance for 53.3 cents 2017 is in line with guidance.
"I am confident 2016: 64.1 cents 16.8% we have a unique platform to unlock revenue synergies and generate good longer term growth. """
We outlined our approach to financial metrics and reporting in November ahead of the first Wood trading update in December.
There is no change to our proportionally consolidated approach to running and reporting the business which includes the contribution from joint ventures.
Total EBITA and Adjusted diluted EPS are retained as our principal profit measures and EBITA is stated after costs relating to asbestos Robin Watson, Chief Executive litigation and claims.
08 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements To date we have delivered annualised Deleveraging to within our preferred Creating Wood, a global leader in cost synergies of greater than $40m.
range of 0.5 to 1.5x net debt to EBITDA project, engineering and technical Costs to deliver synergies of c. $30m, within approximately 18 months post services delivery.
completion is a key priority and we including redundancy, restructuring The acquisition of AFW in October 2017 remain confident in the underlying and integration costs are recognised in brought together three brands and quality of earnings and cash conversion exceptional items and are tracking in line two companies to create one leading in the business to achieve this target.
business in project, engineering and target range reflects our long standing technical services delivery.
We are a Wood is better placed to serve preference for a strong balance sheet business of significantly increased scale customers than ever before, with foundation.
The key elements of our with around 55,000 people in over 60 a more comprehensive range of deleveraging plan include: improved countries providing solutions across capabilities and the potential to deliver working capital management, delivering the asset life cycle from concept to efficient integrated solutions with cost synergies, capital discipline and decommissioning.
We have a stronger, fewer customer interfaces.
Customer disposing of non-core businesses more balanced oil & gas offering and reaction to the deal, particularly including the potential disposal of we are a much broader business, with across oil and gas, has been positive.
We anticipate proceeds a multi-sector, full service capability from all such non-core disposals to We have had some early successes on across energy and industrial markets.
exceed $200m in the next 18 months.
revenue synergies, including our recently announced contract with Saudi Aramco In the first few months since completion, In terms of our combined safety to support their integrated crude oils we have completed detailed business unit performance, we now have almost 200 to chemicals complex.
We have also reviews that have confirmed the strategic million man-hours of annual exposure.
made good progress on merging bidding rationale for the deal, the depth of Our initial assessment is that the pipelines and aligning tendering and businesses share common areas of focus capability in AFW and the unique growth project delivery governance.
The strategy and the impact on lagging indicators opportunities for the combined business.
and development function is leading the is minimal.
Our Stand Up for Safety The Wood operating model was in revenue synergies programme with an programme continues to be implemented place and communicated on Day 1, initial focus on educating leaders about and will be the cornerstone of the Wood greatly benefitting our stakeholders the broader range of Wood capabilities safety engagement through 2018 and understanding of the combined business on offer and identifying opportunities beyond.
Our general safety performance and enabling our integration process to where we have a combination of has encouraging improvements, begin at pace.
Wood Group completed capability that addresses an identified with total recordable case frequency a service defined organisational change customer need.
Examples include TRCF and lost work case frequency programme in 2016 that focussed on extending our involvement in oil & gas LWCF down 8% and 17% respectively simplicity and efficiency, resulting in projects from the start of the asset compared to 2016 on a proforma basis.
a structure that could accommodate life cycle to the end, leveraging our Regrettably, there were two fatalities in future business additions.
As a result, the legacy AFW business in 2017, both operations services experience into new the integration of AFW requires only vehicle related.
Our focus on safety as industry sectors served by the legacy minor modification to our operating and our top priority is undiminished.
AFW business and building on our sector reporting model.
Our 2016 reorganisation agnostic service offerings across the Details of certain investigations in the UK was key to the delivery of cumulative broader customer base.
and US and in respect of certain litigation overhead costs savings of over $240m in the US, that have previously been The restrictions on interaction with AFW by the end of 2016, during the prolonged disclosed, are included in the contingent imposed by the offer period prevented downturn in the oil and gas sector.
We liabilities and provisions note to the us from deepening our understanding of are confident this experience will enable accounts.
Wood continues to cooperate the well flagged opportunities and risks us to deliver a leaner, more competitive with and assist the relevant authorities until the transaction closed.
Following combined organisation and underpin the including the SFO in relation to their completion, David Kemp and I led delivery of cost synergies.
respective investigations into the historical comprehensive reviews into the acquired use of agents and in relation to Unaoil.
Integration and the achievement of business units.
These reviews are now synergies has been a key objective for complete.
Recognising the change in the whole business.
We remain very Financial performance in 2017 risk profile in the combined business, a confident of delivering annualised key element of this process was a focus Financial results for 2017 are ahead of cost synergies of at least $170m by on significant contracts with profit at guidance on a reported basis and in line the end of the third year following risk.
The risk profile inherited is in line on a proforma basis.
completion and are currently ahead of with our expectations and we have schedule.
Our actions to date have been Reported full year actual results comprise identified opportunities to simplify the the legacy Wood Group business and a focussed on rationalisation at the top process around how risk is managed.
We contribution from AFW for the period levels of management and the initial have already enhanced our governance from completion on 6 October 2017 to 31 stages of property rationalisation.
Key structures, project and tender review December 2017. leadership was in place on Day 1 and and contracting policy as a result.
We we have subsequently announced a have also taken the decision not to Results are also presented on a proforma further two levels of organisation.
We basis to provide better insight into the pursue certain high risk lump sum work are taking a Best of Both approach continuing business and establish the which was problematic in the legacy to ensure retention of key experience base level for Wood for comparability AFW business.
and expertise in the combined business.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09 Strategic report | Chief Executive review Proforma results include 12 months of We also made a provision for $19m in Looking further ahead, we have a unique AFWs results but exclude the results of the first half in relation to an ongoing platform to unlock revenue synergies and businesses disposed: principally the AFW subcontractor dispute on a legacy generate good longer term growth.
Our North Sea upstream business, the AFW turbines contract which was substantially financial objectives and focus are clear: North American nuclear operations and completed prior to the formation of to reduce net debt to EBITDA to below the disposed elements of GPG.
Also included in exceptional 1.5x within approximately 18 months, exclude the results of other, less material costs is a further impairment in the to retain our progressive dividend policy disposed interests including the Aquenta carrying value of EthosEnergy of $28m taking into account cashflows and consultancy, an interest in Incheon Bridge and other exceptional costs relating to earnings and to deliver cost synergies by and interests in two Italian windfarms.
EthosEnergy of c. $10m, mainly related to year 3 of at least $170m in line with our impairment of receivables.
In the legacy Wood Group business, results reflect relatively resilient Net Debt at the year end was $1.65bn performance in a challenging oil and and net debt to 12 month proforma gas market.
In AS Americas, EBITA was EBITDA was 2.4x.
This compares to net down on 2016.
Revenues were broadly debt at completion of $2.0bn, which in line with 2016, but margins fell due to was in line with our expectations.
Since the completion of onshore engineering completion, the disposal of the AFW UK projects in 2016, only partly offset by upstream business on 27 October reduced increased activity in offshore engineering.
net debt by c. $250m, although this was In AS EAAA revenue was down on 2016 partly offset by expected transaction but with a stronger second half as and synergy delivery costs that sit below expected.
We continued to make good the EBITA line.
Cash conversion was progress on overhead reduction and saw 69% reflecting improved working capital some moderation in pricing pressure, performance offset in part by the cash although EBITA margin reduced in part impact of exceptional items including due to the positive one off impact of costs related to the AFW acquisition commercial close out on significant and and integration.
Cash conversion before legacy projects in 2016 of around $15m.
STS we saw good growth in automation revenue and robust activity in technology Outlook related work, offset by lower activity in We entered 2017 as a business engaged subsea & export systems.
EBITA margin in the design, modification, construction reduced, in part due to the positive one and operation of facilities mainly in off impact of commercial close out on the upstream oil & gas sector with a significant and legacy projects in 2016, clear strategy to broaden into adjacent and lower margins in subsea.
We are now well positioned as a global leader in project, engineering In terms of the underlying trading in the and technical services delivery.
We are legacy AFW business, a number of themes a broader business with multi-sector, highlighted in their half year results have full service capability across energy and been evident in our review of the business industrial markets and a more balanced post completion.
From a financial offering in oil & gas.
perspective, in the second half the receipt of a dispute settlement was partly offset Following completion of the AFW by delays and cost overruns on certain transaction, our business unit reviews fixed price non-oil & gas contracts.
confirmed the strategic rationale for the deal, the depth of capability in AFW Operating profit before exceptional items and the unique growth opportunities is stated after non cash amortisation for the combined business.
At this early charges of $141m 2016:$104m which stage we currently anticipate modest includes $32m in respect of amortisation EBITA growth in 2018.
This compares to of intangibles arising on the acquisition 2017 proforma EBITA, which includes the of AFW.
one-off benefit of a dispute settlement The loss for the period of $30m is stated in legacy AFW.
Expected EBITA growth after exceptional costs of $165m net reflects early stage recovery in certain of tax.
This included $67m in respect areas of our core oil & gas market of costs relating to the acquisition of and benefit from the delivery of cost AFW, comprising advisory fees of $59m synergies.
We have also seen good and underwriting fees in respect of new momentum in contract awards more debt facilities of $8m.
Also included generally in broader energy and industrial are restructuring, redundancy and markets in the second half of 2017. integration costs of $51m.
10 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
