Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review DELIVERING RESULTS A BRIGHT FUTURE 2017 was a milestone year for us, with commencement of construction, incremental supply agreements signed bringing the total to 4.4 million tonnes per annum, a move to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and inclusion in the FTSE250 among the highlights.
Our numerous successes along the development journey drive us to approach this next phase of development with the same ownership, belief and urgency which are some of the key values which define who we are.
For those who have supported usover the years I hope the commencement of construction provides further validation of our commitment to succeed.
Safety Safety is paramount to the success of For those who have supported our business.
Our culture places safety at the forefront of everything usover the years I hope the we do and we are continuously engaged with our contractors and commencement of construction consultants to ensure they adopt our provides further validation of our safety culture and company values.
Two recordable incidents have commitment to succeed.
occurred during the first year of construction and we are constantly CHRIS FRASER.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER working to improve our processes and find safer ways of working in order to ensure that we all return home to our families at the end of each day.
18 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Our strategy Develop an industry-leading The Company has a clear and robust product COMPANY VALUES strategy and is focused on executing POLY4 is a natural, low chloride, this strategy successfully.
multi-nutrient fertilizer, the likes of Responsibility which has never been widely Our strategy is to: available in the major growing regions of the world.
Our everOwnership build a world-class, long-life, expanding global agronomy low-cost production facility: programme provides partners and Belief develop an industry leading product: potential customers with an penetrate existing markets and independently validated dataset Urgency drive long-term value: and which demonstrates the efficacy of POLY4 on a wide range of different execute a financing plan that Safety crops in varying geographic and delivers returns for shareholders.
Leading industry Team participants and potential customers Along our journey we have made are excited by the prospects of POLY4 strategic decisions within this and are enthusiastic about introducing framework, whether it be switching to it into their product portfolios.
a more efficient, low impact transport system or even the nature of our During 2017 we articulated the four product.
Optimisation through cornerstones of POLY4: Effectiveness, evolution will always be at the heart Efficiency, Flexibility and Sustainability.
of our strategic decision-making The cornerstones describe POLY4s process.
Through this process, unique value proposition and are webelieve that the Sirius value proving to be an effective marketing proposition continues to grow tool.
I encourage you to visit andbefurther enhanced.
com website tolearn more about the product.
Build a world-class, long-life, low-cost production facility Penetrate existing markets and drive It has always been our intention to 4 May 2017: formal commencement of long-term value construction construct a production facility which We have a three-step approach to enables us to maximise the potential our marketing strategy: of our unique polyhalite resource.
The scale, thickness and quality of the Substitution utilising POLY4 as a deposit means highly efficient, bulk substitute for other existing fertilizers mining methods can be employed to which include one or more of the maximise output over hundreds of same primary nutrients contained years and these considerations are at in polyhalite.
This disruptive the forefront of our approach to mine approach will ensure POLY4 is design and construction.
We believe the widely available in all markets.
asset we are constructing will be among Market growth today there is an the most cost-competitive multi-nutrient unmet demand for lower chloride fertilizer producers globally.
potassium sources, and making POLY4 widely available at a For those of you who have driven past commercial price point will unlock the Woodsmith Mine site over the new sources of demand and Expanding global research and past12 months you will be impressed developmentprogramme opportunities to adopt greener with its transformation.
Formal and more sustainable agricultural commencement of construction PLEASE VISIT OUR practices.
started officially on 4 May 2017 and PRODUCTWEBSITE Performance our successful POLY4.
COM the work completed over the course extensive crop trial programme of the year is the first step in executing consistently demonstrates strong on this part of our strategy.
performance from POLY4 and we believe this performance will underpin premium pricing for the product over the long term.
19 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review continued The Company continues to work The year ahead hardat building its customer base 2017 has been a year of meaningful and I was pleased to welcome Wilmar progress on the ground in North International as a customer during Yorkshire and in the global fertilizer 260 2017.
They are the leading agrimarkets.
2018 will be another year of agronomy trials have been initiated business in South East Asia and will be significant progress on all fronts, with a strong partner for the Company.
that progress ultimately culminating in the successful completion of the Execute a financing plan that stage 2 financing.
delivers returns for shareholders The Company has taken a rigorous, There is a lot more work to do in phased approach to executing the orderto successfully execute on the 17 financing plan.
At each stage of Companys strategy but I am confident countries development, appropriate capital our team has the necessary expertise to has been raised to deliver the next deliver.
The culture we have throughout development milestone.
2016 saw the organisation is reflected in our thefirst successful completion of the corporate values.
These values embody stage 1 financing, which provided why we have succeeded in achieving theequity and equity-linked capital a number of challenging milestones 32 components of the construction but also how we will continue to deliver financing plan.
on what we set out to achieve.
It is our different crops shared belief in achieving our goals In 2017 the Company obtained a and our unwavering drive to succeed Premium Listing on the Main Market that will see us successfully through and was included in the FTSE 250. the next phase of development.
Behind the scenes, work was underway to prepare for the Thank you all for your ongoing support.
execution of the Companys stage 2 financing in late 2018.
It is intended that this financing will be 100% debt in nature and ultimately provide all of the capital required to complete the construction component of the CHRIS FRASER Companys strategy.
Managing Director and CEO Sirius Minerals global R&D programme 20 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2018 DEVELOPMENT MILESTONES Construction Complete main service shaft foreshaft construction and excavation.
Complete the installation of the main production shaft foreshaft and commence foreshaft excavation.
Commence MTS access shaft construction at the Woodsmith Mine site.
Complete construction of theMTS portal at Wilton International.
Commence shaft sinking at Lockwood Beck intermediate shaft site.
Commence early works for theMHF.
Finalise harbour facility strategy and complete procurement.
R&D, sales and marketing Expand global agronomic programme and establish 80 new trials.
Execute 2 Mtpa incremental supply agreements.
Corporate and commercial It is our shared belief in Substantially complete Project achieving our goals and procurement.
our unwavering drive to Draw down the stage 1 financing royalty instrument.
succeed that will see us Execute stage 2 financing.
successfully through the next phase of development.
21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
