Chief Executives review Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive CLEAR AND FOCUSED STRATEGY TO DRIVE LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION decline in our investments at Earls Court.
The growth in Covent A year of good operational progress Garden was offset by a decline in the value at Earls Court.
As a Capco has made good operational progress across its two prime result, EPRA net asset value fell by 1.7 per cent over the year to central London estates.
Covent Garden, which now accounts for 334 pence.
72 per cent of the Groups portfolio by value, has had another strong year creating value and positive rental performance.
We continue While the environment for large-scale residential development has to implement our strategy by focusing on asset management, become more difficult, the Earls Court Masterplan has an existing investment and managing the estate creatively.
Covent Garden is a planning consent in place and remains one of the largest world-class destination in the heart of central London offering a Opportunity Areas in central London, capable of delivering new vibrant mix of British heritage, independent and global brands and homes, jobs and investment.
Earls Court has the ability to evolve continues to evolve to meet consumer demand.
Investments made with the needs of London and its potential will be realised over in recent years including on Henrietta Street, Floral Street, King time.
As a long-term investor in London, Capco will continue to Street and the Royal Opera House Arcade have positioned the estate seek to engage positively with our partners and all stakeholders well.
This has resulted in strong demand from occupiers and as new in order to evolve the Masterplan, which has the flexibility to be concepts open, we are capturing the reversionary income potential brought forward through the introduction of third-party capital of the portfolio.
At Earls Court, good operational progress has been made.
ECPL, Over the year, the Group successfully realised value from the sale the investment vehicle with TfL, which represents our principal of its Venues business, crystallising 230 million of net proceeds investment in Earls Court, successfully completed the final phase which will be recycled into Capcos central London estates.
of the complex demolition of the former Exhibition Centres, which Capcos prudent approach to its balance sheet continues.
We prepares the land for development.
At Lillie Square, Phase 1 handover maintain a strong financial position with low leverage, high has substantially completed.
By the end of 2017 the residents of 182 liquidity and modest capital commitments.
The business is new homes had been welcomed to the scheme.
A pop-up high street well-positioned to support its future activities, navigate market for Earls Court was successfully launched on Lillie Road.
uncertainties, while taking advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Whilst the West End and Covent Garden have continued to thrive, Capco remains disciplined in its investment approach, with a economic and political uncertainty has continued to impact the weighting towards Covent Garden as we continue to expand our residential market in London, resulting in a further valuation ownership on the estate.
10 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Market Building, Covent Garden Valuations Market Value Market Value Valuation 2017 2016 Change The total property value of the Group declined 0.9 per cent 1 m m Like-for-Like like-for-like in the year to 31 December 2017 to 3.5 billion.
The valuation of Covent Garden has risen by 4.3 per cent like-for-like to Covent Garden 2,545 2,275 4.3% 2.5 billion, driven by ERV growth of 4.6 per cent achieved over the Earls Court Properties year.
The equivalent yield remains broadly unchanged, reflecting Earls Court Partnership the valuers current view of the strength of demand for prime 2 Limited ECPL 561 644 16.0 % central London real estate.
3 Lillie Square 156 223 5.7 % Capcos investment in Earls Court Properties declined by 11.8 per Empress State 220 230 4.8 % cent like-for-like to 1.0 billion at 31 December 2017.
A number of adjustments have been made to the component parts of the Other 42 45 8.1 % valuation of our interest in ECPL.
The valuers more conservative Group share of Earls Court view on gross development value and the cost of delivery, together Properties 979 1,142 11.8 % with recent transactional evidence in the land market, have resulted Venues 293 in a net decline of 14.4 per cent like-for-like for ECPL in the second 4 half of the year.
Similarly the valuation of our other interests at Earls Group share of total property 3,524 3,710 0.9 % Court has declined reflecting changes in valuation assumptions.
Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital The Group has a 63 per cent controlling interest in ECPL, the expenditure, fixed head leases and unrecognised trading surplus.
investment vehicle with TfL, which owns the land formerly 2.
Represents the Groups 63 per cent interest in ECPL.
occupied by the Earls Court Exhibition Centres EC1 & EC2.
Represents the Groups 50 per cent share of the Lillie Square joint venture.
result, it is fully consolidated in the financial statements and TfLs 4.
A reconciliation of carrying value of investment, development and trading property interest is represented as a non-controlling interest.
See the to the market value is shown in note 15 Property Portfolio within the consolidated Financial Review on page 38 for further information.
com 11 Chief Executives review continued months and will improve the circulation of pedestrian flows on the Covent Garden a world-class retail and dining destination northern part of the estate.
The residential component, comprising Covent Garden is continuing to build on its success as a world-class 45 new apartments, is expected to complete by summer 2018. retail and dining destination.
Our creative asset management strategy has driven positive leasing momentum with good demand We have continued to invest in the estate through acquisitions for all uses across the estate.
We continue to strengthen the core which offer value creation opportunities.
99 million was invested categories of luxury gifting and accessories, cosmetics and in acquisitions during the year, most notably consolidating our differentiated dining concepts.
The estate is valued at 2.5 billion as at 31 December 2017, a Earls Court Properties large-scale strategic opportunity in like-for-like increase of 4.3 per cent.
During the year, 21 new retail central London and restaurant brands were signed to the estate, the most in any During the year, ECPL successfully completed the final phase of the year to date.
As a result of positive demand across all uses, 90 new complex demolition of the former Earls Court Exhibition Centres lettings and renewals were agreed, securing 14.6 million of rental in preparation for future development.
income at 10.4 per cent above December 2016 ERV.
Net rental income has increased significantly, by 17.8 per cent in absolute Handover of Phase 1 of Lillie Square nears completion with 98 terms or 11.3 per cent like-for-like for the year.
The ERV of the estate million Capco share of proceeds received by the end of the year.
is 105 million, up 4.6 per cent on a like-for-like basis, with positive Cumulative proceeds of 125 million Capco share are expected progress being made towards the ERV target of 125 million by to have been received on Phase 1 over the coming months.
Negotiations are at an advanced stage for the main construction contract for Phase 2.
50 per cent of the 186 apartments in the phase The range of dining concepts on the estate continues to expand, have now been reserved or exchanged.
34 of these transacted during with the introduction of a number of high quality and differentiated 2017, seven of which occurred during the second half of the year.
concepts including The Oystermen, Avobar and The Henrietta.
The Sales prices achieved in Phase 2 are at a modest premium to latest additions further enhance Covent Gardens attractiveness as comparable units in Phase 1. one of Londons most desirable dining destinations.
The consented Earls Court Masterplan is a strategic development Covent Gardens retail offering has gone from strength to strength.
for London and is identified as a Greater London Authority GLA The Market Building has introduced Daniel Wellington, Tom Ford Opportunity Area.
It is referenced in the draft London Plan issued and Deciem.
The repositioning of the Royal Opera House Arcade in December 2017 as ready to grow.
The political environment has continues with the addition of leading travel brand Tumi which is made discussions on enhancing the Masterplan more difficult, set to join British heritage brands N. Peal and Tom Davies which however Capco will continue to seek to engage positively with the opened stores during the year.
Lettings to Kent & Curwen and The GLA, our partners at Transport for London and other stakeholders Shop at Bluebird represent an excellent start to the repositioning to evolve the Masterplan over time.
This includes discussions with of Floral Street.
London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham LBHF regarding Development of Floral Court nears completion.
Anchored by the possibility of the Council taking the lead on future plans for the Petersham Nurseries, the courtyard is expected to open in the coming West Kensington and Gibbs Green Estates The Estates.
Site progress at Earls Court 12 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Capco is in discussions with MOPAC the Mayors Office for Policing and Crime regarding its ongoing occupational requirements at the Empress State Building which may include a lease extension or sale of the building.
There is no certainty that any transaction will be agreed.
Innova Investment In 2015, Capco acquired a 50 per cent interest in Innova Investment formerly Solum Developments, a joint venture with Network Rail, which is exploring potential opportunities for future redevelopments at significant railway station sites across London.
Sale of Venues On 7 April 2017, Capco completed the sale of Venues to a consortium of German institutional investors for 296 million.
Profit on disposal of Venues was 2 million.
Having extracted significant value from the venue since acquisition, Capco took the decision to exit this non-core asset realising value for shareholders through sale.
Cash proceeds were used initially to repay bank debt and will be deployed in Capcos prime central London estates over time.
Outlook Covent Garden is a world-class retail and dining destination in the heart of London, offering a differentiated mix of global, British heritage and independent brands addressing the needs of the consumer.
Through creative asset management and by attracting excellent retail brands and dining concepts, the reversionary income potential of the portfolio will be captured.
Capco will continue to invest in strategic acquisitions, interventions and in enhancing the customer environment.
Following a year of positive leasing activity, 2018 will be another active year for openings across the estate, which are expected to further strengthen Covent Gardens reputation as a leading global destination.
The estate remains well-placed for continued success and ERV progression towards the target of 125 million by December 2020.
15-17 Long Acre 27b Floral Street acquired 2017 The consented Earls Court Masterplan represents one of the most important mixed-use developments in London.
The GLAs draft London Plan issued in December 2017 references Earls Court as ready to grow demonstrating the sites potential to deliver more housing and optimise this important London scheme.
Whilst the economic and political environment presents challenges to the London residential market and large scale developments, Capco will continue to seek to positively engage with all of its partners and stakeholders to evolve the Masterplan.
The consented Masterplan has the flexibility to be brought forward through the introduction of third-party capital and selective development.
Capco has a clear strategy to deliver long-term value creation for our shareholders from our two prime central London estates.
Backed by a strong balance sheet with low leverage, high liquidity and modest capital commitments, Capco is well-positioned to support its future activities, navigate market uncertainties and take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 20 February 2018 www.
