CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Q&A with Steve Ingham, CEO previously in 2015.
It means more we will continue to add heads selectively, people engage with our content and but remain mindful of the impact on our presence on LinkedIn than any other conversion rate.
The content we put on to A number of our markets remain LinkedIn is meaningful and relevant, challenging.
In the UK we remain helping to build our brand awareness cautious, as considerable uncertainty so that we are the recruiter of choice.
remains around the timing and terms of Brexit.
While Australia, Brazil and Q Youve paid special dividends over Singapore have shown improvement the last three years.
Do you anticipate in Q4, we remain cautious on these that continuing into 2018?
As ever, we will continue to focus on driving A We continue to operate a policy of profitable growth whilst retaining the financing the activities and development flexibility to adjust rapidly to changing of the Group from our retained earnings market conditions.
and to operate while consistently maintaining a strong balance sheet position.
We first use our cash to Q What are the progression Q Do you see LinkedIn as a threat satisfy our operational and investment opportunities at PageGroup and how do to the recruitment market and what requirements, and to hedge our liabilities you invest in tour leaders of the future?
under the Groups share plans.
We A More than most companies, being A Technology, such as job boards then review our liquidity over and above an organically grown business means and LinkedIn has given the perception this requirement to make returns to there are plenty of opportunities for that everyone has complete and equal shareholders, firstly by way of ordinary rapid progression within PageGroup, access to potential candidates.
from consultant to the senior leadership in such a candidate driven market, our Our policy is to grow this ordinary team, and we have many examples of skill is putting the human touch back into dividend over the course of the this across the Group.
We know more about our economic cycle, in line with our longteam, and myself as CEO, started candidates than would ever be possible term growth rate: we believe this enables as consultants, demonstrating the through online profiles, and are best us to sustain the level of ordinary significant progression opportunities placed to deliver our client requirements.
dividend payments during a downturn, that we can offer.
To facilitate this We have a number of global strategic as well as increasing it during more progression, we have clearly defined partnerships of which LinkedIn is one prosperous times.
career paths, a global succession and it plays a key role in our acquisition planning process and a talent Cash generated in excess of these landscape.
We work alongside them development learning roadmap, which first two priorities will be returned to to constantly improve our use of their supports the professional development shareholders through supplementary inventory and as part of their panel we of all our staff at every stage of their returns, using special dividends contribute to steering their product career.
In 2017, after development of tools specifically for consultation with our shareholders, we We are serious about succession recruitment.
Each of our consultants made a supplementary return of 12.73p planning and talent development in order is trained on optimising their use of per share.
We will continue to monitor to grow consultants to be the leaders LinkedIn and as a company we have our liquidity in 2018 and will make of tomorrow.
We offer a competitive over 1.2m followers.
Whilst LinkedIn returns to shareholders in line with the remuneration package, we run executive is a social network we measure the above policy.
coaching schemes, internal and effectiveness of each part of its inventory external mentor programmes, Personal for the functionality it provides.
For Development Plan development, example: we compare their job slots Q What do you consider the outlook to Management Development against job boards and aggregators.
be for 2018 and what do you consider programmes, a Global Directors A key success of our global platform to be your biggest challenge?
Academy and an Executive Leadership is how we execute at regional level.
To enable all of our people A Our strategy to invest in our Large, For example in Mainland China our to develop their skills and capabilities High Potential Markets remains social strategy is focused on WeChat.
whether in a classroom or virtually, we unchanged and we are pleased that For those of you who havent heard of have also recently invested in a global we are seeing strong growth in all five it, WeChat is Facebook, WhatsApp, digital learning platform BOOST!
We will continue Instagram and Paypal all rolled into one international mobility programme gives to diversify in the US, invest in Latin and has over 550m users.
We are the opportunities to our people at all levels America and South-East Asia, develop worlds first recruitment company to to develop themselves even further in the domestic market in China and deploy job alerts to WeChat.
different countries and regions so that expand our temporary and contracting they can take on new challenges and We were also very proud to win once businesses in Germany.
Where we are grow as individuals.
again in 2017, LinkedIns Most Socially seeing strong growth elsewhere, such as Engaged Recruiter, having won this in Continental Europe, India and Japan, Strategic Report | 24
