Q&A with the CEO 2017 has been a significant year for IP Group.
The underlying business has performed well and there have also been a number of individually important strategic transactions.
ALAN AUBREY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2017 has been a significant year for IP Group.
now operates the technology transfer operation The underlying business has performed well and there known as Imperial Innovations.
It also brings with it a have also been a number of individually important number of experienced team members.
The Group completed two to believe that an industry champion will be better corporate transactions: the combination with AIMplaced to attract the best university partnerships: listed Touchstone Innovations plc in October and the best scientific and commercial talent: and a the acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd in January.
broader and deeper pool of investors.
By creating Touchstone Innovations creates, builds and invests in a stronger, better-resourced company, we can help technology companies and licensing opportunities more scientists develop commercial businesses, developed from scientific research from the Golden and help prevent the flight of commercially viable Triangle, the geographical region broadly bounded enterprises that so often has to leave the UK and by London, Cambridge and Oxford and Parkwalk is or seek takeover before they have achieved what the UKs leading university spin-out focused EIS fund they set out to do.
The transaction was declared manager.
In addition, IP Group completed a placing wholly unconditional in October and Touchstone is to raise 181.0m of new capital and extended its consequently being integrated into the Group.
model into Australasia, signing a landmark agreement What is Imperial Innovations?
with nine of Australasias leading universities: the University of Adelaide, Australian National University, Imperial Innovations is Imperial College, Londons the University of Melbourne, Monash University, Technology Transfer Office or TTO for short.
UNSW Sydney, the University of Queensland, the University TTOs are dedicated to identifying University of Sydney and the University of Western research which has potential commercial interest Australia in Australia, and the University of Auckland and to then helping commercialise it.
The Group now has operations in the Touchstone transaction, Imperial Innovations three major geographic territories the UK, US and is now a wholly owned operating unit of IP Group Australasia, a stronger balance sheet and a large and and effectively gives the Group a direct pipeline to diversified portfolio of exciting opportunities.
the research being carried out at one of the worlds leading technical universities until mid-2020.
Imperial What are the main benefits of Innovations works with researchers at Imperial the combination with Touchstone College London to help develop their novel research into new businesses, products or services, supporting Innovations?
the process of taking an idea from the lab into the Our vision is to create an international leader in IP market.
Imperial Innovations assesses inventions, commercialisation with an enlarged platform for protects intellectual property through patents and growth and investment.
The three most significant other appropriate forms of IP protection, provides benefits to the Group of the combination with advice on establishing proof of concept and may Touchstone are: 1 increased scale and critical mass: provide development funding or support inventors in 2 further diversification of the Groups portfolio their applications for funding from other sources.
Its in terms of maturity and business sector and 3 Venture Support Unit establishes new businesses, further access to world-class research, including finds mentors and management and provides access Londons Imperial College and University College to preferred suppliers, similar in a number of ways to London.
As a result of the transaction, the Group IP Groups existing IP Assist function.
READ ABOUT OUR BUSINESS MODEL ON PAGES 14 TO 15 2 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Business Overview recorded a net contribution of 1.6m for the period Integration is often a challenge since acquisition, has significant assets under with acquisitions.
How have the management, an experienced team and strong links first few months worked out with to many of IP Groups existing university partners.
Its investment vehicles include the evergreen Parkwalk Touchstone?
Opportunities Fund, the University of Cambridge We have been really encouraged by the level of Enterprise Funds, the University of Oxford Innovation engagement and commitment shown by employees Funds and the University of Bristol Enterprise Funds.
in both IP Group and Touchstone Innovations.
After an initial review last Autumn, it was clear that staff in What benefits do you expect both companies felt strongly that it was important from the recently established to start working together as one team as quickly as possible and we therefore focussed on making this Australasian operations?
The integration process was overseen by a One of the main reasons for selecting Australasia in team comprising individuals from both IP Group and terms of expansion was that it scored very highly in Touchstone and is now substantially complete.
We meeting our criteria of long-term partnerships with have simplified and streamlined our organisational leading research institutions alongside access to structure by moving to a two-sector model of Life significant pools of local capital with a potentially Sciences and Technology and will operate both long-term investment horizon.
It is still early days in divisions from one central London office.
Both the TTO the region for us but we now have a team in place, led and Parkwalk continue to be run as separate entities.
by Dr Mike Molinari, who has been appointed to the position of Managing Director.
Its a return to IP Group Are there any changes to for Dr Molinari who was previously a Director of IP IP Groups divisional reporting Groups IP Capital business in London.
He re-joins from Brandon Capital, one of Australias leading life following the integration of the science investors with $500M under management, Touchstone portfolio?
where he was an Investment Manager.
Alistair As part of the integration we decided to move McCreadie has been appointed Chief Investment to a simpler 2-sector model of Life Sciences and Officer, Asia Pacific, and Dr Peter Grant, who is IP Technology rather than our previous four sector model Group plcs Managing Director for New Business and of Healthcare, Biotech, Technology and Cleantech.
Partnerships, is Chairman of the Australian subsidiary.
Going forward, both the Life Sciences and Technology This team will focus on building up the Australian sector will be managed as partnerships, comprising and New Zealand operations as IP Group deepens a Managing Partner responsible for its overall its engagement with its nine university partners in performance with a structure of partners, investment the region.
We have been encouraged by investors directors and managers and analysts specialising response to the move with new investors including in particular fields and companies.
In Life Sciences, Temasek and Telstra both joining IP Groups share the Managing Partner is Dr Sam Williams and in register through our fundraising last Summer and Technology, the Managing Partner is Dr Mark Reilly.
an AU$100m global co-investment mandate being agreed with Hostplus.
The team has identified an READ ABOUT OUR PORTFOLIO ON PAGES 23 TO 39 attractive pipeline of opportunities and anticipates making initial investments in 2018.
How has the Parkwalk acquisition helped IP Groups access to capital?
Founded in 2009, Parkwalk is the largest EIS growth fund manager focused on university spin-outs, having raised over 175m to date with the majority of funds coming from leading private wealth platforms and having backed over 80 companies across its managed funds since inception.
In 2017 alone, Parkwalk committed over 70m to UK university spin-outs investing alongside IP Group, Touchstone Innovations, Oxford Sciences Innovation and Cambridge Innovation Capital.
Parkwalk, which 3 Stock Code: IPO www.
