Q&A with the CEO 2017 a year of delivering in line with our strategic plan Scan to see the CEO video Video content To view the film download the Blippar app and hold your camera over the images indicated.
12 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Andrew Denton, Alfas CEO, answers key questions about the business in 2017.
What were your highlights of 2017?
How would you summarise the Alfa business model and strategy?
Two things stand out for me the first is the historic levels of delivery we have Key for Alfa is to continue to grow achieved, hand in hand with our our share of a vast addressable customers.
Following on from the hugely market.
We will do this by continually successful delivery in Q3 last year of one delivering business benefit using the of our largest automotive customers, best technology.
we had a further five go-live events this Ive already talked about delivery.
None of this would have been The strength of our delivery approach, possible without the high levels of underpinned by our teams extensive expertise and commitment our people experience, expertise and talent, bring to each project.
Our reputation is the key to this.
and brand is strengthened by successful implementations and I am proud that Software development has the same we have continued to deliver in these underpinnings in terms of the strength areas so emphatically this year.
We create value by constantly innovating and evolving our Secondly, growing our customer base core software development.
has been important and keeping the diversification of pure automotive Alfa Systems is both simple and flexible finance and equipment finance.
We and is capable of supporting all finance secured two new customer wins in June products, all asset types, channels to 2017 and have continued to build the market and geographies.
It benefits sales pipeline which is diversified both by from 30 years of functional growth on asset class and geography so that we have a state of the art technical architecture.
a sound platform for growth in 2018.
Our unique single product approach continues to support our aims.
Every development becomes part of the core package giving us high levels of supportability alongside maximal functional growth.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 13 Q&A with the CEO continued for our customers.
Being innovative The role of the middle man and embracing new technologies, such The desire to provide a better customer as digitalisation, artificial intelligence, experience is leading to new self-service Q. internet of things and virtual reality, technology that cuts out the middleman What are the factors you see driving are critical if they are to enhance their from both auto and equipment finance.
customers to make changes to their products and services to support the This technology will make the lending systems environment?
customer journey and ensure their process swifter and more efficient ongoing growth and future success.
and, this is driving further innovation on Particularly as the wider banking all fronts.
Our customers and prospects community begins its Open Banking need to compete from a technological A. journey.
Given our progress in this as well as a market perspective.
The push factors we have always talked area Alfa is well placed to lead them The impact of Brexit about continue to be a key factor in through it.
In the UK the impact of Brexit and driving change.
Older systems that how it will affect financial lending is are difficult and costly to maintain still to be fully understood.
We will or impractical to change to support undoubtedly see further regulation business ambition or regulatory change Q. affecting our customers, whether it is are still common in our market.
In these What challenges do you see for the new banking legislation outside the situations, the customer often has no or sector over the next few years?
EU regulations or more immediately little choice but to replace its system.
managing the impact of General Data When customers do have discretion, Protection Regulation coming into force for many the factors driving any system in May 2018.
We can be confident in this A. change are heavily influenced by the changing environment thanks to our explicit need to reduce costs.
Generally, I see three main challenges in the year geographically diversified customer doing things smarter to maximise ahead: the perceived automotive base and the fact that regulatory change efficiency and ensure regulatory bubble in the US and PCP in the UK: ultimately drives systems replacement.
compliance is the primary reason the role of the middleman in the growing We are also actively preparing for the for replacing legacy systems.
However, asset finance industry: and in Europe, impact Brexit will have on our people.
saving time, reducing costs and ensuring the impending impact of Brexit.
At Alfa, We have more than 20 nationalities regulatory compliance are no longer the we are already looking to address these within the Alfa team and our focus is on only drivers for IT change.
Increasingly, in the following ways: giving as much certainty and support to change is being driven by more strategic Automotive market appetite those living outside their home country goals and involves developing business There has been much debate and as possible.
strategy and the corresponding speculation on the future of the technology to create new products automotive industry.
Uncertainty and services that deliver products and around the automotive bubble in the US services to end-customers at the precise and the increasing use of PCP in the UK Q. moment they want them.
combined with speculative concerns What is the biggest challenge facing Many of the more recent customer relating to the sharing economy have Alfa in 2018?
conversations Ive had have been piqued the interest of many market focused on how they can support observers.
Despite these challenges business objectives through digital the need for leasing and asset finance transformation.
The traditional remains strong in both the new and A. narrative for business is changing, used car markets.
Financial products As we continue to grow our operations todays connected world demands more are evolving to emphasise the service globally we appreciate the challenges from each asset many CEOs and CIOs element and to embrace usage-based we face in terms of remaining innovative are asking themselves how an effective finance.
But the financial products have and leading with the best technology.
digital strategy can support them in always evolved.
The key data point is We are overlaying two initiatives over achieving their ambitions.
In fact, more that finance of some kind is vital to our core strategy to ensure we maximise than ever, technology is at the heart selling assets and the secular drivers our potential and execution capability: of buying decisions.
As a result, for change are constant.
understanding how to embrace new digital technologies is a high priority 14 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Building a partner ecosystem Identifying and building business partnerships accelerates our delivery Q. capability.
Additionally, creating the right strategic alliances enhances our What are you most excited about... we are focused on global reach and ability to target new in the year ahead?
Finding partners with the creating a culture that right credentials, global coverage and fosters innovation and cultural fit is key and we are looking to A. build a compact global ecosystem of collaboration, one where partners with complementary skills that Personally I am delighted to be leading people are genuinely we can draw upon as required.
Alfa at such an exciting time in the asset comfortable, feel safe and automotive finance industry.
As we Continuing to innovate all adapt to the ever changing industry A key part of our strategy is Businessand are encouraged to landscape, embracing the challenges as in-a-Box, which is multi-faceted and be themselves at work.
well as the opportunities that new will lead us to a low friction, predigital technologies bring, our strategy configured solution for any asset in any centres on the customer.
This will be developed listened to our customers, and as a and delivered over a number of phases result we are developing our core over the mid to long term, all of which platform so that it is truly digital.
will deliver benefits to our current Ultimately our goal is to help our enterprise customer base.
The main customers to remain competitive as focus remains on pricing structure, route well as disruptive in their own market.
to market and also a differentiated By doing this, we fuel their success and support offering to this new generation ensure our own evolution.
In supporting our core strategy and these initiatives, we never forget that people are the bedrock of our business.
Competition to find and retain the best talent is high and we face fierce Andrews 2018 competition.
We encourage a culture outlook for Alfa that fosters innovation and collaboration, one where people are genuinely comfortable, feel safe and are encouraged to be themselves at work.
We believe this approach gives us the best appeal for potential recruits and also provides a solid foundation for existing employees to flourish.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 15
