CEOs review of the year Key dates of 2017 February First live cloud implementation March F astest por t folio implementation 2017 has delivered change on a number Growing and winning of fronts: servicing an ever changing As we have grown, we have taken care market place, our listing in London, our to protect our culture, which is rooted continued expansion with two historic in our founding 20 plus years ago, customer wins and our ever growing and whilst also embracing change.
We have diverse team at Alfa.
increased our headcount to 329 and April expect to grow by a further 15-20% over Delivering the next year.
Our induction and training Upgrade to existing We have really delivered for our programme, which all new joiners Alfa at a leading UK bank customers in 2017 never before did attend, has been developed to provide I think I would get two grateful calls over our new members with the training, a single weekend from two different support and supervision required as customers celebrating the fact that they learn the Alfa way.
our Alfa teams delivered their implementations for them.
By the point In 2017, we have also grown the Alfa December closed, we had delivered family by entering into a global service five software implementations agreement with a transnational June each and every one of these is a huge professional services firm, with whom we achievement and the result of many are now co-bidding in a late stage pipeline Listed on the London cumulative months of work on both opportunity.
This is a very important step Stock Exchange the Alfa and customer side.
towards implementing side-by-side with Live at Europes largest partners and will provide the bandwidth Everyone in Alfa makes this possible Fleet company for long term operational growth.
the sales team, the implementation and support teams, the product and In June 2017, we announced two technical centres and all of our internal significant new customer wins and teams around the world.
I would like to those implementations have kicked thank every one of my colleagues for off in earnest, ramping up through an excellent year of delivery for our the fourth quarter and delivering over customers as well as continuing to deliver 3.4 million in revenue in 2017.
While December on our strategy.
We have grown the Alfa those implementations will continue team around the world, increasing from throughout 2018 and beyond, we have Live at a leading 269 employees to 329 at 31 December recently announced the win of a global Nordic bank 2017, an increase of 60 people which is equipment manufacturer.
The our largest annual increase.
We continue implementation will focus on Europe in to celebrate the sheer breadth and the first instance, but the global master diversity of nationalities, backgrounds framework agreement provides us with and skills that we are lucky to have in an opportunity to implement globally, our Alfa team.
assisting this organisation in reinventing the way they do business.
This will contribute to revenue growth in the second half of 2018.
16 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information IT landscape and also access to data Looking back Alfa team members which will ultimately increase consumer We have a lot to celebrate in 2017, satisfaction and therefore loyalty.
which was a strong year financially.
329 Already, at one of our customers we Revenue increased by 20% to have been taking part in evolving 87.8 million 2016: 73.3 million and conversations around the Internet of Adjusted EBIT margin increased to 47%.
Completed software Things connecting Alfa Systems to the Currency fluctuations post-Brexit have implementations physical asset and how this will disrupt been sizeable, and excluding this the lending landscape.
There is still a lot impact, revenue increased 9% on a of runway on this and I am excited to see constant currency basis.
Important 5 where this goes in 2018. to us is the fact that all of our completed implementation customers continued Our Cloud First approach to the market, into our Ongoing Development and which is a robust and comprehensive Services segment ODS which commitment to Alfa Systems being demonstrates the strength of our Addressing the changing market hosted in the cloud, be it public or customer relationships and the From a macro-economic perspective, private, has given us a major competitive continued partnership we have we believe the global asset finance advantage.
This has provided our with them.
market to be generally in good health.
customers with real optionality around The US asset finance market is hitting their infrastructure and has also led to its seventh consecutive year of growth significant running cost efficiencies.
Looking forward and new business volumes in the key Our management objectives will Developing Alfa Systems and European markets reaching double focus on the following activities: our implementation processes digit growth.
Having said that, the We have been asked a lot about version We will continue to ensure automotive finance sector is being six of Alfa Systems.
Java is still a modern flawless execution of our current buffeted by a number of headwinds.
language and the Alfa technical platform software implementation projects These include declining new car sales is still a sound base for development in and continue to deliver to our and, as with other parts of the market, relation to user experience, digitalisation, ODS customers.
Therefore a key and further connectivity with other We are also focused on capitalising focus of the global asset finance players systems.
2018 will see us start the on the full pipeline we see at the end will be to keep pace with all market journey towards a more granular of December 2017, with a number of drivers.
Ultimately, all these factors lead modularisation of Alfa Systems late stage opportunities progressing to increased systems investment but allowing for faster development, fewer to the closing stages.
We expect they may create uncertainty in some dependencies, and positioning the three to four new customers or sectors in relation to timings of software as a leader in the more open existing customer upgrade projects implementations.
and cooperative deployments we to be announced in 2018, including We have seen a seismic shift in the asset expect to see in the future.
Some of this our recent win at the beginning of finance landscape in recent years and development will appear in version six March 2018. indeed months.
Today we are all thinking of the software.
Against a backdrop of a weakening and talking about digital, artificial We are also continuing to focus on the dollar, the Board expects to report intelligence, internet of things and cyber strategic projects which will move us low double-digit top line growth on security.
The way we did things a couple towards the vision of delivering a fast, a budget rate, or mid double-digit of years ago will no longer be the way we lower friction Alfa to any country, any on a constant currency basis with new do it in the future.
Demographics and vertical and to any size of company.
customer projects achieving run rate customer priorities are changing and in the second half of the year.
we need to keep listening and changing Our simplification focus will look at with them.
improving internal processes and optimising automation of migration While change may be a challenge to and data testing.
The collaborations many, we view this as an opportunity Andrew Denton we have with existing customers, as well and have stepped up to grab it with both CEO as our own investment in simplification hands.
After listening to our customers, over 2017 will enable Alfa to win 8 March 2018 who have told us that digitalisation has customers who had previously not been at the top of their agendas for the been able to accept the traditional last few years, we launched Alfa Digital implementation processes.
to lead thinking and demonstrate our capabilities in this arena.
This has successfully opened doors to potential new customers and also created new opportunities for existing customers.
We can offer direct access to end consumers, connectivity within the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 17
