STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Anne Stevens became Chief Executive of GKN plc in January 2018.
GKN has world class global businesses with leading edge technologies in two of todays most dynamic and fast moving industries to this trend.
Growth in Aerospace was 2%: in 2.
Accountability through establishing a delivery Driveline it was 9%: and in Powder Metallurgy culture, supported by changes in incentives.
Focus through operational and formal However, this growth has in many cases been separation.
delivered at the expense of cash generation Taking each of these in turn, we are managing and returns.
This is clearly not acceptable our core businesses in terms of product to us or our shareholders.
Again, our 2017 segments and allocating capital and setting results exemplify this trend.
Overall, trading targets on a differentiated basis.
This strategy margins dropped from 8.2% to 6.4%, 7.4% is set out in more detail on page 7: in summary, excluding the North American balance sheet we have three distinct strategies for our adjustments described on page 26.
Margin It is a great honour and privilege to be Chief core segments.
reduction occurred in all three divisions in 2017.
Having served as For Improve product segments we will a non-executive Director since July 2016, GKNs improvement track record in safety over focus on margin and cash performance.
it was already clear to me that GKN has world the past few years has been strong.
However, These include products where we already class global businesses with leading edge the second half of 2017 showed a marked have leading market positions and make up technologies in two of todays most dynamic deterioration.
Tragically, a colleague in our 58% of 2017 Group sales.
I have first-hand Wheels business in Italy suffered a fatal experience in these industries from previous accident in October 2017.
Support for those 16% of 2017 Group sales is in our Grow roles and I know these markets are attractive affected has, of course, been our priority.
segments which will focus on outperforming in terms of their long-term growth potential.
However, at the same time, we have carried the market while maintaining strong margins.
out thorough root-cause investigations and These include products where we already GKN became the subject of an unsolicited are taking action to ensure that all our achieve strong financial performance.
takeover bid soon after I became Chief employees go home safely every day.
As at the date of this report, we are For Develop product segments we will continuing to defend the Company against this accelerate the growth of exciting next bid and we will keep our stakeholders informed Our new strategy generation technologies.
We will not restrict as things develop.
capital expenditure here, but will be focused Our new strategy is focused on cash generation on revenue growth and ROIC.
and margin improvement, while still growing 2017 performance Cash conversion is key across all segments.
selected businesses above the market.
We have a new leadership team that is committed The remaining 26% of our revenue is in For many years, GKNs world class businesses to delivering our new strategy, which has three businesses that we consider non-core.
have delivered growth well ahead of our elements: The Board is intending to exit most of these markets, which is not an easy thing to do.
businesses over the next 12 to 18 months.
Our 2017 results exemplify this trend: we grew 1.
Clarity through delivery of distinct product This includes the sale of our well-performing, sales 6% organically.
All divisions contributed segment strategies.
well-positioned Powder Metallurgy business gkn.
com 5 Chief Executives review continued Our target is to deliver 340 million recurring annual cash benefit from the end of 2020. a great business that weve grown and Project Boost we are transforming our processes and improved over many years.
However, as it systems and I am building a world class team isnt core in the aerospace or automotive Project Boost is the execution engine committed to delivering the strategy and markets, we have decided a new owner will be that we will use to deliver cash flow and executing Boost.
I believe this will generate better placed to invest in it and take it forward.
Boost started with significant cash for our shareholders in the a bottom-up plan driven by divisional short term and meaningful sustainable cash The second element of the strategy is to management.
The bottom-up plans were flow over the mid to long term.
And that is establish a delivery culture based on greater reviewed and top-down targets were then why Boost is now well underway.
accountability, greater capability and faster developed and deployed.
This will be delivered by a transformation then taken by the divisions, and physical infrastructure and an execution engine.
Conclusions initiatives and work streams are now being Incentives will be aligned.
As an engineer, my decision to accept the I cannot say enough about the importance Divisions own their targets and are accountable role as Chief Executive was an easy one.
of this second element of our strategy around to deliver their plans.
To track the initiatives GKN has examples of world leading technology culture and capability.
The balance sheet real-time and ensure that we adjust and refine throughout our divisions.
And this technology is review, following on from the inventory issues resources and capabilities to deliver the Boost delivered by great people.
We serve customers that we faced in Aerospace North America, targets, we will have a transformation office, in some of the most exciting sectors and we indicated that a fundamental cause of the led by GKNs new Chief Transformation Officer, operate in communities all over the world that problem was placing high demands on the Tom Kolaja.
rely on the economic activity we bring.
business without providing the resources and capabilities required to address those Our target is to deliver 340 million And yet, to lead such an organisation can demands.
We must change this approach, recurring annual cash benefit from the end never be taken lightly and can never be treated particularly as we set very high improvement of 2020.
To do this, we will pull four levers as simply managing numbers in spreadsheets.
expectations through Project Boost as manufacturing excellence, functional I assure you I am committed to delivering described below.
excellence, direct procurement and world class financial performance to match indirect procurement.
our world class technologies and businesses.
Lastly, divisions are now being run as separate operations.
This enables them We are in a period of considerable change to focus on the specific requirements of throughout the organisation as part of the each product segment.
In mid 2019, we plan new strategy and Project Boost.
In this time of to demerge to create dedicated automotive change, we will ensure that our improvement and aerospace companies, however we will plans incorporate improvements in safety and consider any earlier option if we believe it culture in the same way that they incorporate in the best interests of our shareholders.
Anne Stevens This is a fundamental reset and transformation Chief Executive of GKN.
We are upgrading our capabilities, 26 February 2018 6 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
