Chief Executives review Since 2013, revenues from core businesses have grown by 17% and Adjusted EPS by 48% while generating operating cash flow of 2.5 billion.
The Groups strong cash generation has enabled us to invest in growth, pay dividends of more than 700 million and at the same time strengthen the Groups financial position, reducing net debt Adjusted EBITDA to 2.4x at the end of 2017.
Over the same period we have created innovative new products and services for our customers and we greatly improved safety performance for our employees.
Weare continuing to invest in growth, technology and productivity in order to capitalise on our strong positions and to support our aim of delivering sustainable, profitablegrowth.
OUR STRATEGY OUR STRATEGY ADDRESSES THE POSITIVE LONG-TERM DEMAND FOR SECURITY AND RELATED SERVICES AND OUR ENDURING STRATEGIC AIM IS TO DEMONSTRATE THE VALUES AND PERFORMANCE THAT MAKE G4S THE COMPANY OF CHOICE FORCUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES ANDSHAREHOLDERS.
Our business The Group hastwo business segments, each with a number of key service lines: Secure Solutions, comprising: Security: incorporating risk consulting software, manned security, software and systems and integrated security solutions Facilities management: including integrated security and FM services Care & Justice Services: comprising custody, health, transportation, care and rehabilitation in the UK and Australia Cash Solutions, comprising: Cash transportation, cash processing and ATM services Smart safes and cash recycling Cash Technology: comprising software and service solutions 2017 Results highlights core businesses Revenues rose by 3.2% to 7.4 billion.
The combination of growing revenues and improved productivity saw the Groups adjusted earnings per share rise by 5.9% to 17.9pence per share.
The Group generated operating cash flow of 527 million, equivalent to 106% of Adjusted PBITA in line with our guidance of a normalised rate of over 100%.
Ashley Almanza, Group Chief Executive Officer 4 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 FOCUSED GROWTH Strategic report extend and grow new products and services across PEOPLE AND VALUES our global markets.
At the end of 2017 G4S cash Organisation 2.45bn management technology was deployed at over 19,500 Technology Over the past four years we locations in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and have invested in sales, business related security Africa, an increase of more than 30% over the prior revenues in development, technology and year.
We also made progress in improving productivity our support and control systems, 2017 in a number of markets and we now have plans to processes and resources.
We now have sufficient apply these improvements across all of our cash strength and depth in these areas to enable us to solutions businesses.
implement the next, critical phase of our organisational Zero I am confident that our new organisation will enable development and with effect from1 January 2018 we G4S to take full advantage of the exciting growth have reorganised the Group-wide management of our harm opportunities in our markets and to successfully core business.
The principal features of this change are: execute our strategy.
Is our health and Creation of a Global Cash Solutions division safety goal Our CSR approach and contribution Consolidation of our Secure Solutions businesses into four regions: Americas, Europe & Middle East, tosociety Africa and Asia As a global leader in security and related services, 47% Our new organisation will enable us to strengthen Reduction corporate social responsibility is very important to G4S further our strategic, commercial and operational focus and it forms a key part of our strategy.
We are trusted inemployee in each of our core service lines.
We will continue to fatalities from to care for some of the worlds most valuable assets build and utilise shared services for the provision of and to ensure the safety, protection and welfare 2016 to 2017 efficient and fit-for-purpose support functions to all of people around the world, often in complex and businesses and this element of our organisational demanding operating environments.
development has significant unrealised potential.
Conducting our business in a way which is ethically The biographies of the leaders of our principal responsible, safe and consistent with the companys businesses are set out on pages 70 and 71. values and standards, is an essential element of our business model.
As outlined in the market growth section on pages 8 and 9, technology is a growing part of our Secure The Group is committed to sustainability and the core Solutions and Cash Solutions services.
principles of the UN Global Compact are reflected in our policies, values and business activities today.
In Secure Solutions, we continue to build our capabilities to design and deliver integrated security We recognise that business has an important role in the solutions combining people and technology to offer achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
our customers more efficient and valuable security On page 18 of this report we highlight where G4S is solutions see pages 24 to 27.
Today we have more helping to advance these goals and make a positive than 2.45 billion technology-related security revenues.
difference to society and communities around the world.
Our integrated approach to designing and delivering We expect all colleagues to uphold G4S values in security solutions helps us to differentiate our value whatever role they play.
In return, our commitment proposition in order to win, retain and grow contracts is to provide meaningful work, fair reward and the with key customers.
Our employees often work in inherently hazardous environments and we equip Our new Secure Solutions organisation will enable us to and train our employees to ensure they are as safe increase collaboration and co-ordination across all of our as possible.
markets which, in turn, will enable us to rationalise and target our product and business development, improve We regularly ask stakeholders from inside and outside global account development, harmonise marketing and the company to provide input into an analysis of our transfer operational best practices more rapidly.
material CSR issues to help set priorities.
See page 83 for more information on the CSR materiality review Our Care & Justice Services are concentrated in the that was undertaken in 2017.
UK & Australia where we have significant resource and capability to win and deliver complex public Our CSR approach covers a broad range of areas, services.
Our focus is on rigorous pre-bid evaluation with three material priorities: health and safety, human of contracts and operational delivery.
We expect the rights and anti-bribery and corruption.
overall cash generation of these services to improve as In June 2017, G4S was selected as a constituent certain legacy contracts expire over the next 18 to 24 company of the FTSE4Good Index, recognising our months.
strong commitment to social responsibility and In our Global Cash Solutions division we have proven sustainable business practices.
expertise in providing technology-enabled cash solutions and services that improve the control, ease of use and efficiency of our customers cash management.
In the United States we have established a market-leading position in the provision of cash management technology for large format retail stores.
We believe that our proven cash management technology and our people provide G4S with a substantial opportunity to Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 5 Chief Executives review continued Although we are pleased that there are clear signs of an Culture Embedding our values overall cultural shift within G4S in our approach to safety we Underpinning our culture are the Groups values which 1.4bn also know that there is more to do and our plans reflect this.
govern and guide the conduct of everyone at G4S.
Annual contract We are firmly committed to improving our health and safety value of new performance and our goal remains zero harm.
 programme business won Following the launch of our values in March 2016 we in 2017 CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE conducted an extensive employee engagement EXCELLENCE programme to raise awareness and deepen understanding In both Secure Solutions and Cash of G4S corporate values.
We have developed a training 48% Solutions we have been investing programme for managers and our values are an essential Reduction in in innovative products and service part of induction and training for new employees.
We are annual road excellence, to grow the business embedding our values into existing processes, governing fatalities since with new contracts for new and all aspects of our business including sales, operations and 2013 existing customers, and to improve customer retention, performance management.
Where actions are required which averages around 90%, reflecting our exit from some for example, an improvement in the safety performance low-margin contracts and retaining some of the Groups of a particular business leaders and managers will have largest contracts in 2017 as discussed in this report.
specific objectives in order to make sure the actions are prioritised appropriately see Key Performance Indicators TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION page 32.
Increasingly our customer offering Speak Out includes technology in the form of systems and software.
We continue to encourage colleagues to Speak Out if Technology-related security they are aware of behaviour which is not consistent with revenues were 2.45 billion our values or policies.
There are many ways in which 2016: 2.2 billion in 2017. colleagues can raise concerns, with supervisors or managers, with their local HR team or through the Overall we won new business with an annual contract global, independent whistleblowing systems.
Our case value of 1.4 billion and total contract value of 2.5 management system provides improved visibility of billion in 2017. whistleblowing cases from across the Group, and provides vital information to our Group Ethics OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Steering Committee.
ANDPRODUCTIVITY In 2017, our operational I believe that the conduct of the vast majority of our excellence and productivity employees is consistent with our values and that this has programmes delivered further been and remains the cornerstone of our customer benefits, providing the Group service and commercial success.
We know, however, with the financial flexibility to that even isolated instances of poor conduct are invest in service and product unacceptable and can be very damaging.
It is therefore development as well as improving the Groups adjusted important that we continue to promote good conduct profit before interest, tax and amortisation Adjusted and the use of Speak Out.
PBITA from core businesses by 4.2% to 496 million.
Health & Safety With our more focused business designed around The wellbeing and safety of our employees and those in service delivery, there is further opportunity to our care remains a key priority for the Group executive streamline general and administrative processes and and global leadership teams.
We work in an inherently share resources to generate greater efficiency.
The hazardous industry: we travel extensively and many of Secure Solutions, Global Cash Solutions and Care & our colleagues are trained and deployed to protect our Justice Services segments will share facilities, customers and their property.
As a result, road-traffic infrastructure and functional services.
Our detailed accidents and criminal attacks are inherent risks we face plans will enable us to begin implementing changes in delivering some of our services.
We have therefore and to realise the first phase of these benefits invested in a sustained programme to strengthen our during 2018 and 2019. health and safety policies, practices and training One example of where we are introducing more performance across the Group with the aim of streamlined processes is in our manned security business improving safety.
with a new lean-business process called Javelin see The number of road-traffic fatalities has decreased page 29, which combines HR, operations, finance and by 48% since 2013 when the first G4S road-safety back-office functions, and should ensure we schedule our programme was launched.
There has also been a people more efficiently and are able to reduce the time reduction in attack-related fatalities in our Cash between when we do the work and when we bill for it, Solutions businesses.
However, the number of armed and provide accurate and timely management information attacks has not changed and so we continue to work to customers.
Javelin was launched in Ireland in with the relevant authorities to mitigate the elevated November 2017 and we will be commencing risk in some of our services.
Sadly, during 2017, 25 of implementation in the UK during 2018. our colleagues lost their lives in work-related accidents and attacks, compared with 47 fatalities in 2016.
6 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Market Environment FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL DISCIPLINE The global demand outlook for security services remains The new capital and contract positive as we outline in more detail on pages 8 and 9. processes we introduced in 2013 We expect this positive demand to continue around the are helping us to apply capital world in 2018 with the possible exception of the Middle with greater consistency and East where the effect of prevailing fiscal and macrorigour.
Strengthening our working economic conditions remains uncertain.
capital management was also a priority for our finance In the UK & Ireland region, the Brexit negotiations have and line management in 2017 and we have maintained created some uncertainty around UK GDP growth, but, the increased weighting of operating cash flow in our in this market, we believe G4S is a defensive business, annual incentive plans.
I am pleased to report that at with a number of long-term contracts.
We continue to 31 December 2017, our net debt to Adjusted EBITDA invest in innovative products and services for customers had reduced to 2.4x, down from 2.8x at the end of 2016. to drive growth in the region.
Portfolio programme Outlook The portfolio programme we announced in 2013 The outlook for the Group is positive.
G4S strong hasmaterially improved our strategic focus and the market positions, growing technology-enabled revenues, programme is substantially complete.
Since 2013 we positive cash generation, commercial discipline and have divested 41 businesses with annual revenues on-going productivity programmes provide substantial of c. 1.3 billion and Adjusted PBITA of 46 million, confidence that the Group is very well positioned to realising gross proceeds of approximately 520 million.
deliver a strong performance over the next three years.
In 2017 we closed four businesses and sold a further To realise this potential G4S is investing in: nine, realising gross proceeds of 166 million.
Sales, technology and new products, services Performance and solutions to support our aim of growing revenues from core businesses by an average of Statutory results 4-6% per annum Revenue growth was 3.1% and earnings per share rose Restructuring and efficiency programmes to deliver by 18.8%.
A more detailed review of the statutory recurring operating gains of 70 million to results can be found on page 38, and a reconciliation 80million by 2020, through efficient organisation to results from core businesses is provided on page 44. design and leaner processes.
Additional refinancing Core business performance gains of around 20 million are also anticipated by 2020.
A portion of these gains will be re-invested in Supported by the continuous investment in sales and growth, with the majority expected to benefit the business development resource and new technologybottom line enabled services, revenues rose by 3.2% to 7.4 billion.
Consistent with the commercial practice we adopted We intend to remain soundly financed with average several years ago, we have continued to be very operating cash flow conversion of more than 100% of disciplined on contract bidding and, whilst this Adjusted PBITA and a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA constrained revenue growth in some markets, it ratio of less than 2.5x.
Priorities for excess cash will be underpins sustained profitable growth.
The combination investment, dividends and, in the near term, further of growing revenues and improved productivity saw the leverage reduction.
Groups adjusted earnings per share rise by 5.9% to 17.9 Following the achievement of the Groups leveragepence per share.
In 2017 the Group generated operating reduction target, the directors propose a 5% increase in cashflow of 106% of Adjusted PBITA 2016: 133%.
the final dividend to 6.11p DKK 0.5097 reflecting the boards confidence in the Groups performance and Net debt prospects.
Our policy is to increase the dividend in line Growth in profits and robust cash flow generation, with the long-term growth in earnings.
together with net disposal proceeds of 156 million, helped reduce the Groups net debt to Adjusted Our customers and our colleagues are at the core of Watch our 2017 EBITDA to 2.4x 2016: 2.8x in line with our plans.
G4S and, in closing, I would like to thank our customers results and 2018 for placing their trust in G4S and to pay tribute to our outlook online at: 570,000 colleagues who serve our customers every day.
Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Officer See page 44 for the basis of results of core businesses and an explanation of Alternative Performance measures is on page 35.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 7 Marketgrowth drivers MARKET-GROWTH DRIVERS SECURE SOLUTIONS Demand for security is increasing Customers buying processes across the globe increasingly complex The evolving nature of terrorism, The increasing use of technology, which continues to threaten globalisation and the growing threat societies, has elevated security of cyber security breaches mean that risks and concerns in many parts the procurement of security services of the world.
has moved away from operations to a more strategic role in an increasing Intense pricebased competition number of customers organisations.
inbasic manned security and basic The global market for security equipment installations systems integration is estimated a to be $80bn by 2021.
Barriers to entry in basic manned The world continues to face a series security and basic equipment Technology reshaping security ofdivergent and emerging threats.
installations are low, which can industry result in intense competition in Governments and companies require some markets.
Whilst labour costs have increased holistic approaches to ensure the or are increasing, particularly in Companies like G4S are therefore security of their people and assets developed markets, the cost of looking for ways to increase sophisticated security technology bothat home and abroad.
differentiation such as global breadth is reducing.
Combined with the or technology and productivity Third-party commentators such as Freedonia expect additional data and assurance that improvement to offset price theglobal security industry to grow 5-6% per annum comes with technology, it is starting pressure.
With our to reshape the security industry.
global footprint and attractive array of products and services we are well positioned to meet this increased CASH SOLUTIONS demand.
Global cashusage trends Retail opportunities According to third party research In many markets, retailers operate in firm RBR London, cash withdrawn very competitive environments and from automated teller machines are looking to reduce costs including ATMs between 2016 and 2021 is cash handling and to free up idle expected to grow by more than 6% cash sitting in tills, safes, vehicles and per annum in emerging markets and cash-processing centres.
between 0 to 1% per annum in G4S software and service enhanced developed markets.
smart safes and cash recycling services can reduce shrinkage costs Network consolidation for retailers, and eliminate or reduce With lower cash volumes in some the space required for a cash back markets together with new higher office and cash reconciliation teams.
value added services partly cannibalising traditional cash-inThrough recycling the majority of cash takings in store, the number transit services, it is likely that some, if not all cash markets will of cash-in-transit journeys can be reduced by 40% to 60% with experience network consolidation.
A number of industry participants both cost-saving and environmental benefits.
have publicly stated that they are looking to make acquisitions, and we As more cash is recycled in store, have sold some cash businesses to less cash is being processed by the focus on our key markets with banks so the retailers achieve a stronger growth potential.
We reduction in banking fees.
believe this market consolidation will a.
Source: Security Systems Integration Report, IHS Markit 2017. help network efficiency and lower b.
Source: company research and 3rd party data including the cost of cash handling.
RBR, Panteia, Euromonitor International, World Retail Data and Statistics.
8 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 MEETING THE DEMAND Strategic report HOW G4S RESPONDS Supplier consolidation We assist customers in evaluating Global security market by region $m and understanding security In certain markets both Manned 120,000 trends and their risks through Services and Systems we have seen experience in the market and the some market consolidation and provision of software tools such trends whereby large competitors 100,000 as Risk360 and TravelAware.
Key aim to provide multi-service trends are featured in G4S Risk bundled and integrated solutions.
Some competitors have followed G4S has been investing in 60,000 this trend to differentiate away from productivity programmes to the commoditised manned security be more efficient and cost market.
We believe this may be 40,000 competitive see page 29. helping customers move to more G4S designs, builds, operates and technology-focused solutions.
20,000 maintains integrated security Technology-enabled solutions is solutions.
We invest in a less commoditised market than 0 technology and innovation which traditional manned security 2010 2015 2020 2025 is changing our sales mix, helping markets with a lower number deliver service excellence to of capable suppliers.
Asia Paci c North America customers see pages 24 to 28.
Western Europe Africa & Middle East Latin America Eastern Europe Source: Freedonia World Security Services report January 2017 excluding residential security.
Our new products are being We provide cash solutions and Global presence adopted by banks and some of the services that materially improve Secure Solutions No.
of countries worlds leading retailers and we the control and efficiency of our Cash Solutions expect this market will continue to customers cash handling.
Industry research continue to invest in innovative data indicates that our addressable products and services such as market for smart safes and recycling 80 CASH360, Deposita and 82 solutions is around 20bn-25bn bank-branch automation.
With the significant progress 60 made in some areas of the 57 Automated processes inside bank business, we have an enormous branches 40 opportunity to extend and grow 42 41 Banks and financial institutions are our new technology and services also under pressure to be more 20 right across our global markets.
23 22 efficient, lower the cost of handling At the end of December 2017 15 14 cash, reduce their branch network 0 we had over 19,500 2016: whilst maintaining customer access 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 14,600 cash technology and service.
installations deployed in North We have been developing 1.
Brinks 41 integrated technology to address and Africa.
They combine We have also made great 4.
Prosegur 15 hardware, proprietary cashprogress in improving management software, real-time productivity in a number banking integration, same day credit of markets and we now have and customer service and support.
the opportunity to apply these improvements across all of our cash businesses.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 9
