04 Chief Executives review Our strong track record The Nortek businesses have built on a promising start under Melrose ownership to have an outstanding 2017, with improved momentum in sales coming through in the 2 second half when sales were up 4% on the second half of 2016.
Freed from the restrictions of the formerly centralised group structure, operational management have 1 improved underlying operating profit by 2 52% in their first full year and increased 1 underlying operating margins to 15.2%, being the original three to five-year aim at the time of the acquisition and an improvement of more than five percentage points.
This improvement has been funded by Melrose investments equal to approximately 2x depreciation, the full benefits of which are still unfolding.
The businesses have also been extremely successful in converting this strong Simon Peckham performance into cash, with a cash Chief Executive conversion rate under Melrose ownership of over 100%.
At HVAC, the strengthened and refocused The Melrose Group currently consists of four divisions, management team is currently upgrading three of which were acquired with Nortek in 2016: the the key US production facilities and has made significant investment in the R&D Air Management division, which includes the Heating, centre in Saskatoon, Canada.
A detailed Ventilation & Air Conditioning HVAC and Air Quality & Home Solutions AQH businesses: the Security & Smart Technology SST division, comprising the Nortek Security & Control NSC, Core Brands and % GTO businesses: and the Ergonomics division, which comprises the Ergotron business.
Energy is the fourth 52 division and includes the Brush businesses from our FKI acquisition in 2008.
1 Improved underlying operating 2 profit of Nortek Group by 52% in their first full year under Melrose ownership 1 Considered by the Board to be a key measure of performance.
Underlying performance measures are defined in the glossary to this Annual Report on pages 152 to 155.
2 Proforma underlying growth as described in the glossary to this Annual Report on pages 152 to 155.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 2017 Strategic Report 05 2 017 has been another highly successful year for Melrose, as Nortek has continued its strong performance, with improvements made across all three divisions during the year.
Simon Peckham, Chief Executive product profitability review has led not only to the exiting of approximately 12% of low margin divisional sales, but has also better informed their approach to tendering.
Free from the distraction of the lossmaking European business of Best S. p. A. which was sold in July 2017, AQH is part way through optimising a previously fragmented production footprint, including a site consolidation in Canada and increased production at the Hartford, US headquarters, made possible by an ongoing 16 million upgrade investment.
An in-depth product portfolio review and accelerated R&D investment has supported the continued refreshing of the product range, with a number of new product launches due in 2018.
The consolidation of NSC, Core Brands and GTO businesses under one Security & Smart Technology management team The Board continues to be fully committed has refocused the business on profitable to supporting Brush and its management channels, improving the product mix to team in emerging from these adverse take advantage of customer changes market conditions so as to be positioned in the market.
This has been supported to have the best possible long-term future.
by significant investment in tooling for new products.
Outlook 5.5 The benefit from ongoing investment yet Already a high margin business on to fully materialise and the encouraging acquisition, Melrose has supported second half sales momentum in Nortek, Ergotrons expansion projects such as percentage point improvement balanced by the effect of exchange rates, 1 the growth in e-commerce and in the in underlying operating position the Group well for 2018 and European and Asia Pacific markets, margins at Nortek in the first beyond, without taking future acquisition while restructuring its US production opportunities into account.
full year of ownership facility along with further development of Ergotrons market leading WorkFit and medical cart products.
As previously announced, due to significant Simon Peckham structural changes to the global gas turbine Chief Executive market caused by worldwide environmental 20 February 2018 policy, Brush commenced consultations with employees in relation to implementing a restructuring plan for its Turbogenerator business as described in greater detail on page 31.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
