Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers review We continue to make good progress with the implementation of our strategy and we have delivered a good set of results, growing the business organically and driving efficiencies to fund 8.5 million of incremental investment in R&D, sales and wider business infrastructure.
2018 is the final year of our initial The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the implementation phase and we will year-end improved to 1.2x 2016: 1.6x, be investing a further 8 million in our following the disposal of two businesses.
capabilities, largely in technology and The Group remains well within its banking sales, funded through further operational covenants and has good headroom and improvements.
These are important balance sheet capacity for appropriate investments to build the long-term health future investment.
of the Group and will position us for more On a statutory reporting basis operating resilient financial performance and faster growth profit improved to 158.1 million in the years to come.
2016: 107.3 million and profit before tax improved to 135.8 million 2016: 87.9 Group results million, both of these benefited from The trading conditions were difficult coming into year-on-year movements in exchange rates Safe and ethical working is the top priority for the year with improvements evident in sentiment, and specific adjusting items of 45.7 million the Group.
2017 was a disappointing year from but limited progress in our markets.
Conditions 2016: 1.7 million charge, 2015: 16.0 a safety perspective.
Our lost time accident rate have improved through the year with improved million charge.
See pages 30 to 39 for accidents per 100,000 hours worked increased order momentum in the major industrial further details.
In part this was geographies from the second quarter onwards.
the result of a serious road traffic accident in the With the better market conditions, and the Group strategy USA when a minibus carrying members of our impact of strategic and structural changes, Our long-term strategy is to build a Group Thermal Products operations team to our plant the Group has performed well: with distinctive capabilities and performance was hit by another vehicle.
Nineteen employees Group revenue for 2017 was 1,021.5 in three areas: were injured in this incident.
However, we have million, 3.3% above 2016 at reported also seen increased accident rates in several materials science capability and technology.
On an organic constant businesses beyond this one serious accident, application engineering capability.
currency basis Group revenue was and we have further work to do to improve.
Our thinkSAFE programme, launched in 2015, is the vehicle for us to do this and we will be The 2017 Group headline operating profit We have strengths in these areas today, and increasing the breadth and intensity of activity margin was 11.7% 2016: 11.8% with the developing these capabilities further will be our on safety further in 2018. impacts of divestments largely offset by focus in the coming years.
Through the application operational efficiencies and the benefit of our core skills in these areas we will add value We are now two years into the initial three-year of higher revenue.
implementation phase of our strategy.
We laid Group headline earnings per share out six execution priorities for the first three was 22.5 pence 2016: 22.7 pence.
We will apply these skills in markets that are years and I am pleased with the progress we Capital expenditure was 34.4 million growing and where we can operate at scale, have made against those during the year.
The Group has on a global basis.
We will apply these skills to take several years to see the full benefits from continued its investment in additional capability solve difficult materials-based problems for our the changes and investments that we are making, and capacity to support future growth.
customers, ethically and safely and where they but we have made a good start and are starting value our differentiated solutions.
This set of Operating cash generation was good, with to see some early successes across the business.
capabilities provides a resilient and distinctive a cash flow from operations of 129.5 million, The foundation for this has been our operational source of differentiation and is an enduring excluding the one-off payment to the US improvements.
These accelerated during the strategic goal for the Group.
year, and consequently we have been able to Net debt at the year end was 181.3 million invest more in the business during the year in 2016: 242.5 million.
technology development, sales and increasing functional capability and depth.
10 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements To reach this goal we need to develop our We will test these new approaches and make 3.
capabilities further and address performance adjustments before deploying across the key Our objective is to strengthen our operational gaps in the business.
In February 2016 we set six sales teams during 2018 and early 2019. capabilities, reduce operational costs to fund execution priorities that we are pursuing through reinvestment in the business, and improve to the end of 2018 to strengthen the Group and 5.
Increase investment in people delivery and quality performance.
deliver resilient financial performance and management and development.
faster growth: We made very good progress with our We are aiming to strengthen our leadership operational improvements in 2017 with a capability and deepen functional capabilities across 1.
Move to a global business structure.
net 8.5 million of savings generated to fund the business, including in sales and engineering.
reinvestment in the business in the year against We completed the move to a global business our target of 6 million.
These were generated structure in March 2016.
The change in structure We launched our new Leadership behaviours from a wide range of improvement projects has improved global co-ordination across the to our senior leaders during the year.
These are in every business including larger lean projects Group and has sharpened accountability within now built into our performance management looking at end-to-end waste elimination, each of our global business units.
This is an process and during 2018, our leaders will be smaller scale continuous improvement projects, important change to enable the wider changes measured both on what they achieve and how procurement projects and further use of we need to make and we completed this without they achieve it to ensure we drive the behaviours automation.
We made a number of changes any loss of business momentum.
we need to support the delivery of our strategy.
to strengthen our operational teams and In addition to the work on sales incentives, we continuous improvement capabilities during 2.
have also made a range of changes to incentive the year and we are well positioned to deliver schemes for the wider leadership population Our objective is to strengthen our technical the further 8 million improvements we are to provide a clearer line of sight from the teams and increase our investment in research targeting in 2018. performance of the individual and the impact and development to around 4% of sales from on their compensation.
As part of this we have 2.8% of sales in 2015 over the next two to 4.
Drive sales effectiveness and introduced greater balance between short-term three years.
in-year and long-term multi-year incentives.
Finally, we have strengthened our leadership We have increased our investment in technology Our objective is to strengthen our sales capability, population, in particular with the introduction development by 5.1 million in 2017, to 34.3 and increase the intensity of effort with new of more capability in finance, HR, operations million, representing 3.4% of sales.
We have customers and in new markets.
expanded the technical teams in our new Carbon Science Centre of Excellence and in our new We carried out five pilot projects to test Metals and Joining Centre of Excellence.
new techniques and tools and to build our recruitment is underway in both places to expand understanding of the best approaches for us to We have completed two divestments which the teams during 2018.
We have also added use across the Group.
In our Thermal business have materially simplified the Electrical Carbon technical resources to our Structural Ceramics in China, and in Electrical Carbon in North and Technical Ceramics global business units.
Centre of Excellence to develop new products America, we assessed the segmentation of Through these divestments we have exited and processes for the structural ceramics our customers and alignment of sales resources businesses where we were sub-scale and where business.
It typically takes a number of years for to customers, the sales process and the sales there was limited synergy with the remainder of these new developments to come to market, management tools we should use.
We have sharpened the focus on the but in the case of our Metals and Joining Centre Thermal automotive business we developed a core business and reduced overhead costs.
of Excellence, we have been able to accelerate new strategy for the market using new market We received proceeds of 79.5 million from the new development of a new cored-wire alloy assessment tools and set new product and sales and have used that to reduce our net debt and product samples were in trials with customers market priorities and targets.
In our Thermal position, creating funds for reinvestment in the by the end of the year.
These are vital investments business in Europe we deployed new business in due course.
to enhance the future differentiation and growth segmentation and pricing tools and developed of the business and we are planning to invest a standard set of approaches for use across Looking forward a further 5 million in technical resources and the Group.
Finally, in our European Seals and As we enter 2018, global markets are generally in technology development in our Centres of Bearings business we developed a new sales good health with positive sentiment and growth Excellence and across the business in 2018. structure with revised key account management expected in most large industrial geographies.
and sales responsibilities to shift the way that We expect the business to grow at closer to our business goes to market.
During 2018, we will be investing further in the long-term health of Through these pilots we delivered significant the business, and we will be investing selectively improvements in local capabilities and in capacity to support growth where we are approaches, and we also developed our capacity constrained and can see attractive understanding of the tools and techniques opportunities to invest.
we should apply across the Group.
We will continue with that deployment during 2018.
Finally, I would like to thank our employees for their hard work and support during 2017.
We also completed the design of our framework for sales incentive plans and prepared for the deployment of new sales incentives to four Pete Raby different sales teams in the first quarter of 2018.
Chief Executive Officer Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 11
