Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executive Officers Review A strategy that deliversrealresults Integral to our people strategy is our fairwage policy we are among We believe its the Tiny thehighest payers in the industry Noticeable Things that andwe pay more than our statutory obligations, across all age groups and our people do which inall territories.
make the difference As well as developing our exhibition toour customers offerings and ensuring first class customer service we continue to pay experience particular attention to our retail products and services.
Our on-site concessions aim to be best in class, providing a variety of food, drink and snack options.
During 2017, the Group has opened five new Starbucks coffee outlets in the UK, in Hemel Hempstead, South Ruislip, Solihull, Basildon and Leeds, taking the total number to 29 at 31 December 2017.
We have expanded the number of VIP locations where customers experience a premium offering from the moment they walk through the door.
A VIP ticket includes access to a private lounge ahead of the movie screening where customers can enjoy unlimited buffet food, popcorn and soft drinks before watching the movie in a dedicated auditorium with luxurious reclining seats.
Three new VIP locations were opened during the year in Zichron Israel, Chodov Czech Republic and Wroclaw Poland.
At 31 December 2017 we had Our Strategy Customer Experience 12VIP locations across the Group.
2017 has seen the Group make great We want to provide our customers with strides in delivering on our strategy and a choice of how to watch a movie.
Our Our membership schemes, the most vision to be The Best Place to Watch cinemas offer up to six different formats significant being the Cineworld Unlimited aMovie.
of how to watch movies: regular screens, programme, continue to provide our 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen and VIP customers with a range of benefits, and Our strategy is to: offerings.
Through both our expansion are one of the pillars of our strategy for deliver the best cinema experience and our refurbishment programme, we growing revenues and admissions.
The for all cinemagoers every time give are focused on ensuring as many of our schemes also bring operational benefits our customers a choice of how to sites provide a range of these formats for by encouraging repeat visits, often at watch a movie, with a range of retail our customers.
The Unlimited offerings, all underpinned by the best programme was launched in Poland at We believe its the Tiny Noticeable Things customer service: the end of 2015 and has performed that our people do which make the strongly during 2017. be technological leaders in the difference to our customers experience.
industry to offer the latest audio We want to ensure our customers return Our wider communities are also and visual technology: to our cinemas again and again.
Every year we expand and enhance our estate very proud of our internal training undertake a range of activities and toprovide consistent, high quality, programmes.
We are committed initiatives with charities, schools and modern cinemas: and, toensuring our people have the community groups.
We were proud to opportunity to develop themselves and partner with the BBCs Children in Need drive value for shareholders by reach their full potential.
We continue to fundraising initiative for the second year, delivering our growth plans in an nurture our talent and promote internally where we raised over 450,000. efficient and effective way.
An overview of our key achievements in2017 is provided below.
10 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Technology and Innovation Future Outlook Our values and culture We continued to invest in the latest Towards the end of 2017 we announced Underpinning our strategy and vision audio and visual technology to ensure the Regal acquisition which completed are the Groups values and cultures.
we remain fit for the future.
Cineworld Group These focus on us having an energy weopened a further 11 4DX screens, isnow the second largest circuit in the and passion for all aspects of seven in the UK and four across the world operating over 9,500 screens in ourbusiness.
ROW, two IMAX screens, one in the almost 800 locations in ten countries.
UKand one in the ROW, and two Although a huge challenge, we as Superscreens in the UK.
Many customers management are confident that our have now experienced 4DX in the UK team together with the Regal team will since we launched the first screen in successfully lead the Group to new Milton Keynes in 2015.
Through our success and experience is constantly evolving to experience in the UK we have learnt and givecinema-goers an even more proved that the potential in a mature immersive experience.
market is at least as big as in the emerging markets.
In the UK, more tickets are now purchased online than in our cinemas, The US is the biggest cinema market with 20% of the online purchases being inthe world and we believe that by Passion for our people made on mobile applications.
combining new sites with refurbished We are passionate about nurturing our sites to enhance the cinema experience Expansion and Refurbishments talent and aim to promote internally for our customers this new addition will We opened nine additional cinemas, a wherever possible.
In addition we are total of 109 screens, during 2017, four in finalising our integration plan which has the UK and five in the ROW.
alreadystarted, and we are confident One year on from the acquisition of the inachieving our goals on both sides of five Empire cinemas we have completed theAtlantic.
the refurbishment of Hemel Hempstead, Through the year the media paid a lot which now includes a Starbucks, and ofattention to the early P-VOD release Basildon, which now has a 4DX screen period, known as the window.
Despite and a Starbucks, and we have started many rumours and much speculation work on the Leicester Square and itseems now that most of the big Bromley sites.
players in the industry support and We have continued to proactively believe in the importance of the cinemas manage our existing estate through our being the platform to exclusively release Passion for innovation refurbishment and selective site closure movies.
Ibelieve the studios will continue We are passionate about providing the programme.
During 2017 we completed to provide great content, while our latest technology and being leaders in four refurbishments in the UK and two commitment is to provide the the industry.
At the year end there were a infrastructure and the great service that number of refurbishments ongoing, will keep the big screen as the best way including two in London, in Leicester to watch a movie.
There is a strong movie slate for 2018, During 2017, we closed three sites, two in which includes Jurassic World: Fallen the UK Chelsea and Stockport and one Kingdom, Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes in the ROW MOM Park, Hungary as the of Grindelwald, Avengers: Infinity War, lease terms expired and it was not Incredibles 2, Mamma Mia!
Here We commercially beneficial or feasible to Go Again, Solo: A Star Wars Story, renew these leases.
We also handed over Deadpool 2, Fifty Shades Freed, the Haymarket site in the UK to Empire Mary Poppins Returns and many more.
as part of the agreed 2016 Empire Without our motivated and engaged Passion for achieving acquisition consideration.
teams we would not be able to achieve We are passionate about reaching our We have a further 75 screens scheduled our vision to be the Best Place to goals, both financial and non-financial, to open in 2018.
New sites will be opened Watcha Movie.
I would like to take tomake us The Best Place to Watch across both the UK and ROW.
thisopportunity to thank the whole aMovie.
Cineworld team for their continued Value for Shareholders hardwork and dedication across all The cash generative nature of our departments and territories during 2017. business underpins our business model.
I look forward to continuing to work Our priorities for the use of our cash alongside the existing and enlarged have remained consistent: to invest team in 2018. inthe business to support growth in revenue and earnings, for selective merger and acquisition opportunities and to grow the dividend.
During 2017 we have been able to reward shareholders with growth of 12.3% in Moshe Greidinger therights adjusted, adjusted diluted Chief Executive Officer earnings per share.
The Group 15 March 2018 maintained its dividend pay-out ratio foranother year, increasing the full yearcash dividend paid by 14.5%.
The proposed final rights adjusted dividend is 3.1p per share.
Resources and Relationships p23 11 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Market Drivers Addressing our biggest opportunities and challenges Market drivers What is happening?
The impact How our strategy is optimised to respond Technology and Developments in technology have brought new innovative Technology impacts the whole customer journey from Investment in technology is key pillar of the Groups strategy we want to be audio and visual experiences to the cinema industry.
booking tickets to purchasing concessions as well as the leaders in this field.
The Group was the first to launch 4DX in the UK in 2015 and innovation audio and visual experience.
continues to invest and open more 4DX, IMAX and Superscreens every year.
TheGroup is continually reviewing and analysing the latest technology available The digitalisation of cinemas has resulted in both a greater toensure the right technology is selected.
range of films being offered and also the streaming of live events such as opera, theatre and ballet.
The Group is also evolving its IT systems to provide customers with the ability tobook online more easily and through mobile applications.
The rate of new cinema openings is often dependent upon The local market conditions impact the rate and feasibility The Group has been successful in opening 17 new sites over the past two years.
Property market local market conditions.
Planning laws, the economic of new openings as well as which sites which can be Asthe estate is generally older in the mature markets, refurbishment of existing and development environment and the ability of developers to finance their refurbished.
cinemas, in particular in the UK, is a key focus for the Group.
Where there are site projects are factors which impact on cinema location.
closures, especially of older sites in the UK, this also provides further opportunities fornew investments.
Market maturity Where a market is in the maturity continuum this impacts The more mature markets such as the UK and Israel tend The geographic spread of the Group provides diversification benefits and the level and trend of cinema admissions per capita.
to be characterised by higher admissions per capita, higher opportunities across both the more mature and growth markets.
This includes the average ticket prices and a lower population per screen opportunity to open new sites as well as refurbish older sites, particularly in the ratio.
Growth markets have the opposite characteristics more mature markets where the estate is generally older.
and provide great expansion potential for the Group.
Throughout the decades the cinema industry has always Although online streaming and downloading of films at The Group continues to invest in new technology to ensure the experience is unique Competing faced competition from other forms of media delivering home is increasingly popular, an outing to the cinema while remaining an affordable activity for the whole family.
Going to the cinema has mediaand content, for example video, DVD and Blu-ray.
provides a unique experience which cannot be replicated also become more than just watching a movie, and that is why the Group has leisureactivities athome, especially with superior experiences offered by invested in its retail offerings such as Starbucks and our VIP offerings.
technologies such as IMAX and 4DX.
A trip to the cinema isa social occasion and watching a movie on a large screen with superb sound is attractive to all age groups.
Visiting the cinema remains a convenient, affordable out-of-home activity, especially when compared with other leisure activities such as concerts and sporting events.
The cinema industry is dependent on the customer Value for money remains an important factor and cinema The Group monitors local and national markets to ensure ticket and concession GDP and the choosing to spend disposable income on watching has tended to be a less expensive form of entertainment prices remain a competitively priced form of entertainment.
The Group invests in economic amovie.
inthe wider leisure market in which the cinema industry both the estate and technology to ensure customers receive a positive experience environment competes.
Historical trends and patterns show that cinema during every visit while getting value for money.
attendance is most closely related to the quality of the movies rather than the gross domestic product GDP ofacountry.
The cinema industry globally has recently seen an increase In 2016 AMC Entertainment acquired Odeon in the UK and The Groups strategy includes identifying potential profitable opportunities to grow Consolidation in acquisition activity and consolidation within the market.
the Nordic Cinema Group in Stockholm.
In Europe, outside and expand the business.
This has included the acquisition of five Empire cinemas in ofthe industry of the top four chains, the rest of the market is represented the UK in 2016 and the Empire Newcastle cinema in 2017. by smaller multiplex operators which only operate in one Following completion of acquisition with Regal post year end the enlarged Group is or two territories, and independent operators which are now the second largest operator in the world by number of screens.
Cinematic There have been ongoing discussions for a number of A material reduction in the cinematic window could reduce There is no expectation that the current cinema window will significantly change years about the cinematic window, the period between the the cinema admissions per capita.
inthe near future, however, the Group continually monitors the status of this and window release of a film in a cinema and on any other platform.
regularly engages with the distributors to discuss this subject.
12 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Top ten grossing films for the Market drivers What is happening?
The impact How our strategy is optimised to respond UK andUK box office totals Technology and Developments in technology have brought new innovative Technology impacts the whole customer journey from Investment in technology is key pillar of the Groups strategy we want to be audio and visual experiences to the cinema industry.
Planning laws, the economic of new openings as well as which sites which can be Asthe estate is generally older in the mature markets, refurbishment of existing and development 72m 68m environment and the ability of developers to finance their refurbished.
Where there are site Beauty and the Star Wars: projects are factors which impact on cinema location.
closures, especially of older sites in the UK, this also provides further opportunities Beast TheLast Jedi fornew investments.
57m 48m Dunkirk Despicable Me3 Throughout the decades the cinema industry has always Although online streaming and downloading of films at The Group continues to invest in new technology to ensure the experience is unique Competing faced competition from other forms of media delivering home is increasingly popular, an outing to the cinema while remaining an affordable activity for the whole family.
41m 38m The cinema industry is dependent on the customer Value for money remains an important factor and cinema The Group monitors local and national markets to ensure ticket and concession GDP and the Guardians of Paddington 2 choosing to spend disposable income on watching has tended to be a less expensive form of entertainment prices remain a competitively priced form of entertainment.
The Group invests in the Galaxy economic Vol.
This has included the acquisition of five Empire cinemas in ofthe industry of the top four chains, the rest of the market is represented the UK in 2016 and the Empire Newcastle cinema in 2017. by smaller multiplex operators which only operate in one Following completion of acquisition with Regal post year end the enlarged Group is 32m 31m or two territories, and independent operators which are It Thor: Ragnarok now the second largest operator in the world by number of screens.
30m 30m Spider-Man: La La Land Homecoming p16 Strategy and Key Performance Indicators p19 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 13
