STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We continued to invest in new growth opportunities through STRATEGIC REPORT 2017, particularly in digital, data and open access OA.
In GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED May, we invested in colwiz, a business developing research management software using artificial intelligence and machine learning technology.
In September, we announced the addition of Dove Medical Press, a leading independent OA publisher, strengthening our position in Health Sciences and adding a valuable portfolio of established OA journals, and a platform for future expansion in this attractive and growing market.
The Knowledge & Networking Division returned to positive growth in 2017, with an underlying growth rate of 0.1%, reversing COMBINING AND INTEGRATING NEW BUSINESSES a decline of -4.1% in 2016.
This follows four years of significant Having acquired Penton Information Services, at the change designed to simplify the portfolio and focus the business end of 2016, 2017 saw a multi-faceted integration on large, branded, international confexes and events in three programme to combine Pentons 1,000 colleagues, key vertical markets, Life Sciences, Global Finance and TMT.
exhibitions, intelligence brands and print and digital In November, we completed the sale of a majority stake in B2B insight and data products with Informas business Euroforum, our German and Swiss conference business, further structure, culture and commercial operations.
1,757.6m increasing the focus on our major brands in core verticals.
Group revenues in 2017 DELIVER DISCOVER COMBINE Knowledge & Networkings investment in digital communities, Planning for the integration started well in advance of the and in connecting audiences year round through networks and deal completing, but the initial focus for all the Informa and specialist content, continued to gather pace through the year Penton teams remained on meeting year-end targets.
At and this is one of the areas where we expect to see more growth 20.45p the same time, management teams prioritised discovering in 2018 and beyond.
more about Penton and testing assumptions made around Dividend per share A common feature across all the Operating Divisions is the where and how each part of Pentons business might best fit continuous reassessment of business mix and proactive within Informas portfolio.
management of the portfolio to improve growth prospects, profitability and earnings quality.
Much has been achieved to The project moved into its Combine phase in early 2017, reshape the Group through GAP and this is reflected in its when the formal integration of businesses, people, culture improving performance.
We will maintain this focus in the and systems got underway.
future, continuing to reassess select non-core businesses COLLABORATION AND GOVERNANCE to test whether we remain their best long-term owner.
74% A steering committee was established to oversee and INVESTING FOR GROWTH AND SCALE measure of colleague engagement from monitor the programme, led by Chief Integration Officer The improving performance of the Group and Operating Divisions 2017 Inside Informa Pulse, a 3% increase and Business Intelligence CEO Patrick Martell and is in no small part due to the programme of investment and on 2016 comprising the CEOs of Global Exhibitions and Knowledge portfolio improvement undertaken as part of GAP.
& Networking, the Director of Strategy & Planning, Director of Talent & Transformation and the Business Intelligence Over the last four years, around 80m has been invested HR Director.
The committee was supported by a dedicated in a range of projects in all four Operating Divisions, as well as 11 points project manager and met bi-weekly to discuss progress centrally in Global Support.
These have focused on technology improvement in Groups Dow Jones reports, agree key integration actions and collaborate on that enhances Informas core platforms, ranging from customer Sustainability Index score in 2017 cross-business matters.
management systems and marketing automation tools to front-end delivery platforms.
This has strengthened the Groups Each Division established workstreams to manage capabilities, supporting the steady improvement in underlying decisions and activity around commercial, marketing of this Division over the last four years is one of GAPs major performance and the delivery of consistent future growth and and financial integration, with sponsors and leads successes, and much praise goes to the management team further scale.
accountable for reporting progress and escalating issues.
and all Divisional colleagues for this achievement.
In 2017, this GAP investment started to reap dividends, with a HR, technology and brand integration were managed at This business is now more focused on customers and markets, Helena Redshaw range of new products and platform enhancements launched.
a cross-Group level by Global Support functional experts, with strength in subscriptions supported by a revitalised Consulting This was particularly evident in Business Intelligence, with to ensure a common approach was adopted in areas business and an exciting marketing services capability through upgrades and launches including improved data collection, affecting all Divisions.
In technology, colleagues from Penton were gradually Informa Engage.
It has all the tools and talent to continue to new API functionality and full platform launches.
incorporated into Informas environment, including steadily improve its growth profile in the coming years.
PACE AND PROGRESS These included a new platform for EPFR Global, our fund onboarding to the Groups digital workspace Portal in The speed of combination varied by workstream, with The Academic Publishing Division, under the leadership of flow and asset allocation data business, the launch of Ovum July 2017.
While we complete the rollout of our new priority given to the integration of key brands into vertical new Divisional CEO Annie Callanan, also reported improved Forecaster, a new product combining forecasts on broadband, Group-wide ERP, certain legacy Penton platforms portfolios to allow commercial teams to quickly identify underlying revenue growth at 2.0%, with revenues of 530m cellular and TV services and technologies, and a new platform remain in place to support their operations.
and adjusted operating profit of 154m.
for Citeline, our clinical trials intelligence business, with a new Project Manager Helena Redshaw above said: The web interface providing full access to data on more than To ensure minimal disruption to working practices and This included another robust performance by our scholarly integration project started from a positive place, as 265,000 trials and 400,000 investigators.
enable a more detailed period of discovery, Technology journals business, with high subscription renewals reflecting cultural fit was an important part of the rationale for and HR changes were phased over the year.
In HR, the continued strong demand for our content.
In our specialist Elsewhere, in Academic Publishing, a single, enhanced combining our businesses, and there was a strong integration provided an opportunity to rethink US payroll Books business, a number of operational initiatives to improve platform for scholarly books content was introduced.
In appetite amongst colleagues to come together as and benefits systems across Informa, and we took a number publication efficiency and customer service supported Global Exhibitions, the development and rollout of our one business and community.
of steps to standardise and consolidate our processes in performance, and, combined with a more stable market MarkitMakr digital lead generation platform continued, as areas like time recording, holiday practices and benefit backdrop, led to positive growth over 2017. did the core digital platform in Knowledge & Networking.
There were lots of learnings along the way that we have contributions for all US colleagues starting 2018.
More details can be found in the Divisional review section.
fed back into our change management processes, including Towards the end of the year, we further reduced our exposure building in the flexibility to allow different workstreams to to the more volatile end of the Books market through the sale move quicker where they can, and ensuring colleagues are of lower level textbook publisher Garland, which should help kept up to date on progress throughout the programme.
further stabilise the Books business in 2018.
10 11 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Informa has a balanced workforce overall, but female As the Group enters 2018, representation is lower in more senior roles.
We will continue to strive to provide the right support and encouragement GAP may be complete, but for female colleagues to ensure they have every opportunity to progress through the Group.
its principles will continue to GROWTH CONTINUATION AND FUTURE POSSIBILITIES The completion of the GAP leaves the Group more robust, customerunderpin how the business is focused and better equipped to deliver sustainable growth and performance.
Informa has delivered on key GAP objectives: managed and operated We have built a scale position in B2B events and will, if the offer for UBM is successful, become one of the largest B2B events groups globally We have expanded our presence and built a strong position in the important US market We have repaired our Business Intelligence Division and During 2017, as in every year, I have been fortunate to spend This is reflected in the range of benefits available to all colleagues, returned it to positive organic growth from its starting point time meeting customers and key business partners to hear which includes our colleague equity share incentive plan of close to a 10% decline their needs and experiences first hand.
This helps to understand ShareMatch.
Participation continues to grow, with close to We have streamlined and focused our Knowledge & the direction and growth opportunities for their businesses and 20% of colleagues now members, boosted by an improved Networking Division, returning it to positive growth in 2017 how we might be able to support this progress by enhancing one-for-one share matching offer introduced in 2017.
We have built depth in a range of attractive vertical markets and extending the specialist intelligence, content, connections We have strengthened core capabilities across the Group, I particularly enjoyed spending extended periods of time in the and sales opportunities we provide.
investing in enhanced platforms and infrastructure, and the US during the second half of 2017, meeting colleagues in small talent and expertise to innovate and serve customers Highlights included meeting exhibitors at World of Concrete and large groups to hear personal experiences from around in the Construction & Real Estate vertical, touring the vast and Informa, answering questions and having great discussions This provides a strong foundation for the future, and it is our impressive Fort Lauderdale Boat Show, hosting a reception on our business and its future direction.
belief there is much more for the Group to achieve.
Our markets with the government-sponsored Egyptian Knowledge Bank to are attractive and growing, often fragmented and international: Alongside such informal discussions, the Group has a more promote our scholarly research and other activities in the region, the ingredients for continued growth and scale in the future.
formal colleague engagement platform, Inside Informa.
This and leading a panel of experts at the LeadersIn Tech Summit enables colleagues to have their say on everything at Informa, As the Group enters 2018, GAP may be complete, but its as part of London Tech Week.
providing valuable feedback that drives change and action, principles will continue to underpin how the business is It was also encouraging to strengthen and extend our relationship as well as being a useful measure of overall engagement levels.
We will continue to invest in the with one of our key partners, the Principality of Monaco, during For example, following the Inside Informa conversation in 2016, business, encouraging innovation and expansion, and remain 2017.
This saw us expand our existing partnership on the new learning and development programmes were launched focused on our customers and the verticals in which they Monaco Yacht Show to our full international yachting portfolio, in several Divisions to provide greater opportunities for operate.
We will retain our eagerness for growth, not at any including the US-based events acquired with YPI in March.
cost, but growth that delivers value, creates opportunities and drives returns for our Shareholders.
AN ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLATFORM FOR To supplement this, a shorter, topic-focused Inside Informa GROWTH AND SCALE Pulse was introduced in 2017, in this case giving colleagues This is why, in January 2018, the Board of Informa agreed a Another area of investment and platform improvement in 2017 the chance to have their say on GAP.
Encouragingly, 75% who recommended offer for UBM plc, an opportunity to build on has been the upgrade to our Group-wide financial reporting expressed an opinion believed their business was now better the foundations of GAP and create a leading B2B information system, creating a common, more robust platform with the placed to succeed, and the most commonly cited benefits of services group, with the operating scale, industry specialisation capabilities to provide efficient and effective shared services GAP were new and upgraded technology and opportunities and operational capabilities to deliver long-term growth and value.
to progress and develop personally.
It is an exciting prospect for the future, one that offers major Like all large-scale technology deployments, this has been Informa continues to invest in the balance of talent at all levels benefits for customers, new opportunities for colleagues and complex to manage, with some implementation challenges as across the Group, and our twin areas of focus are international the potential to create significant value for Shareholders.
I look legacy systems have been retired.
However, the vast majority diversity and gender mix.
As the Group becomes increasingly forward to keeping everyone updated and informed on progress of the Group is now live on the platform and there is a target international in reach, it is important colleagues around the world through the year ahead.
to achieve a business as usual state on the platform by the feel they have equal opportunities to succeed and progress.
My thanks to the Board and all my Informa colleagues who end of May, ahead of the half-year reporting period and before Similarly, we have launched new initiatives to promote gender have put such energy and commitment into delivering on the anticipated completion of the offer for UBM plc.
balance, including enhanced recommended recruitment practices.
our GAP ambitions and for putting the Group in such a INVESTING IN COLLEAGUES AND INCLUSION 2018 will see the launch of AllInforma Balance, a network to support strong and exciting position for the future.
The energy, ideas and contribution of colleagues across the the skills and development of all colleagues, with certain elements Stephen A. Carter world remain the lifeblood of our business and so the Groups specifically tailored to women.
Group Chief Executive investment in people, and the support and opportunities available to them, remains critical.
12 13 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
