CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Good growth and further strategic progress In 2017 we delivered another strong Delivering our strategy Total sales up 7.4%: Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and we performance in challenging economic draw on our heritage in fresh bakery to compete 960m circumstances as rising inflation impacted successfully in the food-on-the-go market.
Our both our own costs and customers purpose is to make good, freshly prepared food disposable income.
At the same time, accessible to everyone with the aim of becoming Underlying we continued to make good progress with the customers favourite for food-on-the-go.
operating profit our business transformation programme, excluding property profits: 81.7m investing in new systems and processes We are committed to conducting our business in a responsible manner and, in doing so, as well as increased capacity and efficiency 4.6% to have a positive impact on peoples lives.
We are successfully developing our product offer to meet Our strategy has four pillars: customer needs and investing in improved customer service, in addition to 1.
Great tasting, freshly prepared food accelerating growth in shop numbers.
Greggs products are differentiated by the way we freshly prepare food each day in our shops and by Financial performance offering outstanding value for good quality, great Total sales grew to 960.0 million in 2017, up 7.4 per tasting food-on-the-go.
Within this company-managed shop like-for-like sales grew by 3.7 per cent.
Underlying operating profit, excluding property profits and exceptional items, grew by 4.6 per cent to 81.7 million 2016: 78.1 million.
Pre-tax profit including exceptional items fell by 4.3 per cent to 71.9 million.
Market background Economic conditions became more challenging in 2017, with business cost inflation rising significantly due to food ingredient and labour cost increases affecting the entire sector.
We were able to leverage our scale and deliver productivity improvements to mitigate some of these pressures but, as expected, saw some year-on-year margin slippage.
The market generally saw price inflation returning to the food sector, which resulted in a slowdown in disposable income growth for our customers.
Whilst the food-on-the-go sector remains highly competitive, a further year of unbroken growth in like-for-like sales demonstrates the continued relevance and strength of the Greggs brand.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Strategic Report Look closer at how we are being more socially responsible on pages 16-23 Making good, freshly prepared food accessible to value.
Sales of healthier options, including our Did you all income levels is embedded in our core purpose Balanced Choice range offering fewer than 400 know as a brand with outstanding value meal deals setting calories and good nutritionals, continue to grow us apart from the competition.
Our product strategy as we extend menu choice and take steps to Breakfast remains has been to nurture and protect our market-leading encourage healthier food choices through the fastest-growing reputation in long-established traditional bakery disproportionate space allocation and promotion part of our trading categories adapted to food-on-the-go whilst in our shops.
day and we developing new reasons to visit Greggs by offering continue to build quality and value in new growth areas.
Alongside development of our Balanced Choice increased spend range we have adopted a proactive approach to and visit frequency Our traditional categories, including fresh baked supporting the Governments Childhood Obesity through menu savoury snacks, freshly prepared sandwiches and Plan and making significant efforts to reduce salt, development.
delicious sweet bakery treats, remain our best-selling fat and sugar in our products and to encourage products and are being supported by strong growth greater consumption of vegetables in the diet.
Hot food Breakfast Hot food is another area of growing customer Breakfast-on-the-go continues to grow strongly demand, providing food-on-the-go solutions for and Greggs has established a leading position by all times of the day.
Sales of hot sandwiches and focusing on offering outstanding value with our hot soup are growing well and provide a platform breakfast meal deal starting at just 2.
This remains for further menu development, which we intend our fastest-growing part of our trading day and will create the opportunity to extend trading we continue to build increased spend and visit in Greggs for longer in the day as our frequency through menu development.
it plays an important role in diversifying demand patterns, making us less reliant on general shopping Good food missions and less sensitive to weather.
Customers increasingly care where their food comes from and, because we make the majority of our food Hot drinks ourselves, we are well placed to deliver food they Led by coffee at breakfast, our reputation for quality, can trust.
Unlike the majority of our competitors, value and service in this growth category continues who resell bought-in finished products, we are a to build, enabling us to extend our drinks menu large-scale food manufacturer in our own right choice.
Hot drinks feature in all of our meal deal dealing at source with base ingredients.
offers and it is this outstanding value that differentiates us from our competitors.
We have invested significantly in recent years, gaining independent accreditation for our sourcing Balanced Choice and manufacturing credentials and have set out to Growing public concern over obesity is driving lead the food-on-the-go sector in eliminating or increased demand for healthier choices in food-onreducing unnecessary ingredients at the same time the-go.
Greggs has a key role to play in encouraging as providing full information to allow customers to healthier food choices, making good quality freshly make informed choices.
prepared food accessible nationwide at outstanding Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED We have a strong pipeline of new shop openings for 2018 and are planning to further accelerate our shop growth, aiming to add in the range of 110-130 net new shops in the year.
Looking ahead We completed 132 refurbishments and franchise Number of shops Once again we have a strong pipeline of new partners refurbished a further ten units.
We also trading as at product developments planned for the year ahead, successfully developed a new Drive Thru format that 30 December 2017: strengthening traditional product areas and will allow us to compete effectively in this type of continuing to build our reputation in new location as we seek new sites.
We have a strong pipeline of new shop openings Number of 2.
Best customer experience for 2018 and are planning to further accelerate our franchise shops As well as offering great tasting great value food, shop growth, aiming to add in the range of 110-130 opened in 2017: Greggs is loved by customers because of our fast net new shops in the year.
In keeping with recent and friendly service.
Working in a Greggs shop is years, the majority of these new shops will increase 45 very demanding so we rely on our amazing teams our presence in travel, leisure and work-centred to deliver fast, friendly service under pressure.
At the end of 2017 34 per cent of our continue to invest to simplify our processes and shop estate was located in these catchment types.
Proportion of estate increase productivity to release time for service, now located in with significant gains last year from our new shop 3.
Competitive supply chain travel, leisure and ordering process in addition to a best practice In January 2017 we communicated details of the work-centred programme that we call The Greggs Way.
next phase of our major investment programme catchments: focused on increasing logistics capacity and 34% Our most loyal customers are signing up in rapidly consolidating our manufacturing operations into increasing numbers to our award-winning Greggs centres of excellence in order to support shop Rewards scheme.
The insight that this provides now growth.
Once implemented this new supply chain includes satisfaction ratings and is helping to inform platform will deliver improvements to product decision-making throughout the business, helping quality, our competitiveness and, alongside us to better meet customer needs every day.
systems investment, will complete our transformation from traditional bakery to foodOur shops on-the-go.
The key consideration when customers choose where to shop for food-on-the-go is convenience.
Being Overall our expansion plans will create thousands within easy reach for customers when they need us of new roles in retail and distribution operations is a prerequisite and we are working hard to increase but will result in fewer jobs in manufacturing.
shop numbers in order to provide easy access Decisions such as these, which impact our people, everywhere.
In 2017 we opened 131 new shops are always difficult but our teams have shown including 45 franchise units and closed 41, growing commitment and professionalism throughout the estate to 1,854 shops trading as at 30 December these changes and we have been able to agree nd 2017.
We opened our 202 franchise shop and a way forward on a basis of voluntary redundancy extended our company-managed shop reach to new in the majority of cases.
territory in Devon, in addition to opening further shops in Northern Ireland.
This investment phase is a complicated programme of work which will take until 2020 Refurbishment of our shops slowed down last year as to complete.
We have made a good start in we reached the end of our programme to transform 2017, completing the transfer of our Edinburgh our legacy bakery shops to our food-on-the-go format.
operations to our Glasgow bakery, which has been Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Strategic Report extended to become a centre of excellence for Having a positive impact on peoples lives Yum Yum production, and extending our Leeds Greggs has a long-standing tradition and bakery to create a centre of excellence for cake reputation as a socially responsible business and and muffin manufacturing.
as such we want our actions to have a positive impact on peoples lives.
This ambition covers The year ahead will be the peak year for investment a broad range of stakeholders and in 2017 we in the programme, including the creation of our made further improvements in all areas and centre of excellence for doughnuts in our Gosforth were pleased to achieve an increase to a 4.5 star Park bakery.
rating in the Business in the Community CR index in early 2018.
Strategic change of this magnitude is always challenging and I am grateful for the commitment We encourage healthier food-on-the-go choices of our teams who have been making these changes As a leading bakery food-on-the-go retailer we whilst maintaining service standards to our shops.
recognise that many of the products we sell are traditional favourites best eaten in moderation.
First class support teams As such we aim to capture as much of the demand We have made further significant progress in the for these products as possible in a highlyfourth year of our major process and systems competitive market but at the same time we are investment programme.
taking steps to encourage customers to see Greggs as a food-on-the-go retailer selling a In 2017 we successfully deployed our largest ever variety of products, including healthier options.
systems roll out, replacing our traditional shop ordering with a new central forecasting and Our range of Balanced Choice products offers replenishment process.
We have already seen that choice at below 400 calories with good benefits in improved product availability for nutritional values and now represents more than customers and expect to see savings start to come 100 million of sales.
We are committed to encouraging customers to make healthier foodthrough in lower wastage figures as we become more experienced with the systems capabilities.
on-the-go choices and are taking active steps by offering this range in all of our shops nationwide, In the second half of the year we successfully providing access to all and allocating prominent and disproportionate space to bring these products deployed pilots in both logistics and manufacturing which will be rolled out alongside our supply chain to customers attention.
Alongside Balanced Choice we are working on sugar reduction, in addition to the salt and fat Scoping work has also begun for the remaining SAP support modules, with human resources, payroll and reductions seen in recent years.
Other initiatives include working with New Cross Hospital in property management to be implemented in 2018.
Did you Wolverhampton to redesign the retail format of know our shop there and the product range to meet the requirements of NHS guidance.
In addition, Our healthier options in 2017 we made the Pledge for Veg in partnership are increasingly with the Food Foundation, through which we will popular Balanced help customers to increase their vegetable intake Choice now accounts through design of our salads, soups and for over 100m cold sandwiches.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED We care where our products come from We know that coffee cup recycling is a significant All the tea, coffee, hot chocolate, orange juice, apple issue and, as a responsible business, we are juice and bananas we sell are certified Fairtrade.
working hard to reduce our impact on the We source our prawns and tuna from sustainable environment and do our bit to help find a solution.
sources and have recently maintained our Tier 2 We are currently conducting a trial in 20 shops status, despite increased requirements, in the Business across Manchester and Liverpool city centres to Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
In our internal establish feasibility for in-store recycling of hot supply chain the majority of our manufacturing sites drinks cups.
This will give us the opportunity to Community have achieved AA standard on version seven of the ensure we have a robust and effective process BRC Global standard for food safety.
in place before potentially rolling out further.
In 2017, we In addition, we sell reusable hot drinks cups in increased the We share our success with the community around us all of our shops and offer customers a 20 pence amount of end-ofWe continue to share our success with the local discount when using a reusable cup.
Greggs is day food donations communities in which we operate.
In 2017 this also part of the Paper Cup Recycling and Recovery by 45 per cent.
included increasing the amount of end-of-day food Group and is working with others in the industry that we donated to good causes by 45 per cent and towards delivering a long-term, nationwide paper continuing to support the work of the Greggs cup recycling solution.
We continue to work th Foundation, which celebrated its 30 anniversary hard with our suppliers to further improve our hot in 2017.
Through the generous support of Greggs drink cups to ensure that they are as sustainable and other donors and fundraisers, including our staff as possible.
and customers, the Greggs Foundation was able to distribute 3.1 million to support a wide range of Reducing the use of plastic in society is another initiatives that improve the quality of life in our local issue where we are trying to play our part.
These included the award-winning  business we have a natural Greggs Breakfast Club programme which, with advantage in making most of our products support from 80 partners, now provides six million ourselves and controlling the way in which they are distributed.
For example, we distribute free wholesome breakfasts each year to children in over 465 primary schools.
food to our shops using reusable trays and have separation processes behind the scenes to We aim to use energy efficiently and minimise waste support recycling.
Going forward, we aim to reduce further the amount of plastic involved We hold the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of our work on carbon efficiencies and our in our processes.
Environmental Management System is certificated to ISO 14001.
We continue to trial technologies that could help to reduce our carbon footprint even further in the years ahead.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 14 Strategic Report We are committed to creating a great place to work Outlook for 2018 We will be sharing We pay all of our people more than the National Whilst the UK consumer outlook remains a record 9.2 million Living Wage, including those under the age of 25. challenging, with industry-wide cost pressures with our people, We share ten per cent of our profits with employees expected to moderate but continue in the year due to our strong and will be sharing a record 9.2 million with our ahead, we are encouraged by the start to the year.
performance in 2017: people as a result of our strong performance in 2017.
Company-managed shop like-for-like sales in the eight weeks to 24 February 2018 have grown by 9.2m Our Employee Opinion Survey engagement score 3.2 per cent, and total sales are up 6.2 per cent.
has increased by five percentage points over the last two years: 81 per cent of our people say they feel 81% of our people 2018 will be the peak year for investment in our say they feel committed to Greggs and to helping us achieve our supply chain as we create the platforms for further committed goals.
However, we are not complacent and in the growth.
We also plan to open a record number of to Greggs: year ahead will be working towards achieving the new shops as we implement our plan to grow National Equality Standard as part of our commitment Greggs as a leading food-on-the-go brand.
81% to make Greggs an even better place to work.
We are committed to supporting the development of all our colleagues, in particular our talented female Roger Whiteside colleagues, as we work towards reducing our gender Chief Executive pay gap, which currently stands at 22 per cent.
We 27 February 2018 have made good progress with this in recent years and at Board level have exceeded government guidelines with 43 per cent of our Board being women.
Further details of all of our actions in these areas are described elsewhere in this annual report.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
