06 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review Overview 2017 was a successful year with good performances from our crematoria and pre-need businesses.
However, while our funeral business continued to set the standard at the premium end of the market, having commented on an acceleration in market share decline in our 2016 Annual Report, market share continued to decline at an accelerated rate in 2017 reecting further increases in competition.
As a consequence, the Board has taken decisive action to change the Groups pricing strategy and market positioning in our funeral business.
Underlying operating profit increased three per cent to 104.6 million 2016: 101.7 million, with each operating division trading in line with the Boards expectations.
Alongside this, we continued to invest to support the existing network, acquire well reputed businesses and develop new crematoria.
Change of pricing strategy and market positioning As the Chairman has set out in his statement, the Board took decisive action in January 2018 to protect market share in our funeral business and reposition the Group for future growth.
In addition to the pricing changes already implemented, we will test a range of new price points and services to our clients while preserving our unrivalled levels of service.
We are evolving our funeral business to be Delivering excellent client service remains a key strategic able to oer a range of new price points and priority and means that we can oer the best quality services to our clients while preserving our service at each price point and market segment in which we choose to operate.
We are now positioning ourselves unrivalled levels of service.
Delivering excellent as the best value service provider in the market, leveraging client service remains a key strategic priority the strong investment in the funeral business that we have and means that we can oer the best quality made over the years.
In addition to these changes, we have service at each price point and market also embarked on a rigorous review to ensure that our funeral operations are organised to run more eciently segment we choose.
Having delivered the markets financial expectations for Mike McCollum 2017 our results for 2018 are less certain as we gauge client Chief Executive response to various pricing scenarios while maintaining our high levels of professional service and care.
This has meant rebasing expectations for 2018.
The key challenge for 2018 is to nd the optimum relationship between price, service and demand for our funeral business going forward.
The changing market Over the last 18 months we have consistently drawn attention to the increasingly competitive environment in which we operate.
The internet is beginning to change the nature of competition as the funeral industry enters the digital age.
Clients are increasingly price-conscious and in an over-supplied industry, are shopping around more.
Maintaining high standards 99.0% This continues to have an increasing impact on the Groups of client service market share, with a significant reduction in the average 99.0 per cent of families Our funeral service number of funerals per location noted since 2015.
The said that Dignity met survey results continue average reduction in the number of funerals per location or exceeded their to demonstrate the per one thousand deaths between 2004 and 2014 was expectations.
outstanding work being 3.6 per cent.
This accelerated to 6.8 per cent per year performed by our dedicated between 2015 and 2017.
We have assumed that this will people and the quality continue into 2018, and the revised pricing strategy and of our core business.
promotional activity is aimed at reducing the rate of decline as the year progresses.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 07 Leveraging the strong A new pricing Unrivalled standards Competitive pricing fundamentals of our strategy and market and continued business positioning excellent client service New pricing strategy has acquired 24 funeral locations and one crematorium for This increasingly competitive market was the background an aggregate investment of 28.3 million and has opened against which the decision to change our pricing strategy 14 satellite locations.
and market positioning was made in early 2018.
In 2017, Leadership and standards approximately 60 per cent of our funerals were traditional We have continued to call for regulation in the industry, full-service funerals, seven per cent were simple funerals commissioning and launching a ground-breaking report and approximately 27 per cent had been pre-arranged.
We have further industry-leading The remainder of the Groups volumes were contract and initiatives in the pipeline.
Reecting the trend towards lower cost funerals we immediately reduced the price of We believe the funeral industry will benefit signicantly the Groups simple funeral by an average of approximately from proper regulation to ensure that clients are not 25 per cent and froze the price of our traditional funerals misled into accepting below-par service and standards.
in the majority of our locations.
We pride ourselves in providing industry-leading standards.
It is a thread which has run through our business from As a result of reducing the simple funeral price and the beginning and we are determined to maintain this other initiatives to be progressively tested during the year, focus while augmenting our products and improving it is likely that this changing mix of funeral services will our channels to market.
Reaching our desired goals, continue.
The Group currently anticipates that as a result operational and financial, will require our staying focused of changes to its pricing strategy, simple funerals may on excellent service and we are committed to ensuring represent approximately 20 per cent of all funerals that this is the case.
However, this is clearly an estimate and the precise mix will emerge during the year.
Alongside this, it is increasingly important to us that all stakeholders, including policymakers and those outside It should also be noted that ours is an evolving pricing the industry, understand what we stand for and why strategy and other price and service level options are being our goal of achieving a properly regulated industry is actively considered as we review client response.
We welcome fair scrutiny of the industry also extended the services available from our online and our business.
In all cases, we aim to provide the best quality and value in each segment.
The high quality of our oering, more competitively priced, is how we will dierentiate ourselves, locally and nationally.
Delivering excellent client service in an Delivering these changes eectively will require tools evolving digital age and increasingly and training for our sta and this work is in progress.
In order to promote the new prices and the business competitive funeral sector more generally, the Group expects to spend an additional 2 million in 2018 and in subsequent years compared to 2017 on digital and other promotional activities, building 8 on the work started in 2017.
This additional cost is expected to reoccur and is likely to increase in future years.
We have long been known for our high quality of service Opportunities and every year we have reported on exceptionally high In a fragmented and increasingly online marketplace we levels of client satisfaction.
We are determined this will have a significant opportunity to leverage our existing not change.
This total commitment to quality of service physical national funeral and crematorium networks and and client satisfaction will now be applied to a wider create a powerful national digital presence in both our range of products and price points.
Our aim is to be traditional premium service market and other emerging recognised as the company that provides the best value market segments.
The first example of this was Simplicity funeral service, regardless of how simple or traditional.
Cremations, launched in November 2016 and currently averaging a run rate of 1,000 direct cremations per year.
Adjusting pricing is relatively straightforward, but the greater challenge is building the infrastructure and We also continue to view selective acquisitions of developing the sta necessary to provide excellent well-established funeral businesses as an appropriate service.
We believe this is where the years of investment use of capital despite the changing market.
We will also in our facilities and sta training will pay dividends, for continue to develop our network of crematoria.
us as a company, but also for our clients.
It means we can oer them unrivalled service at each product and Investment and development momentum service level they choose and at a price that is Our future development builds on strong, Group-wide competitive.
This is the repositioned Dignity.
fundamentals, reected in our track record of good operating performance, continued excellent client service results and the further acquisition of established funeral businesses.
A core strength of the management team is its ability to spot quality acquisitions and integrate them eectively within the business.
During the year the Group 08 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review continued A changing and increasingly competitive environment.
Market overview The market share of our three businesses The UK funeral market is getting more complex.
The internet is beginning to play an increasing role and Dignitys funeral market share consumer behaviour is beginning to change.
After years of declining deaths and a significant rise in the number of funeral directors, although deaths are now projected to 11.5% 2016:11.8% increase in the coming years, there are around 30 per cent fewer deaths per funeral director in the UK compared to Funeral services: 25 years ago.
Clients are becoming more price-sensitive Dignity has approximately 11.5 per cent of the funeral and are shopping around more.
This gives the Group sucient size to operate its locations eciently in a way that shares expensive The Group monitors and responds to the environment it resources, such as mortuaries and specialist vehicles, operates in, seeking to understand the implications for the whilst providing very high levels of service to each family short, medium and long-term.
Outlined below are some it looks after.
basic facts about the marketplace as it currently stands.
Further on I describe in more detail the key drivers in the This size still gives the Group good scope to acquire marketplace and what we are doing to address these owner managed businesses in areas where it is not challenges.
Scale and structure of the market The funeral director market remains very fragmented, with approximately two thirds of funeral directors being small Dignitys crematoria market share owner managed businesses.
There are approximately 290 crematoria in the UK, with circa 66 per cent owned by local authorities.
It is estimated that three quarters of all funerals 10.7% 2016:10.1% result in a cremation with the remainder being burials.
Crematoria: In 2017, the initial publication of recorded total estimated With 45 crematoria, Dignity is the largest single deaths in Britain for 52 weeks was 590,000, the same operator in Britain.
The cremations performed represent number as the 53 weeks in 2016.
Some of the Groups approximately 10.7 per cent of deaths in Britain.
There key performance indicators rely on the total number of is still significant scope to expand through acquisition estimated deaths for each period and this information is or new builds where possible.
obtained from the Oce for National Statistics ONS.
Although annual deaths have declined signicantly since the early 1990s from 640,000 to a low of 539,000 in 2011, the last five years have seen deaths above that level.
The ONS expects long-term increases in the number of deaths, reaching approximately 700,000 per year by 2040.
Deaths have been elevated in the last few years.
Whether this marks the start of this longer-term trend or a temporary anomaly is too early to conclude.
Number of active pre-arranged funeral plans Funeral director 2016:404,000 450,000 market The funeral director market Pre-arranged funeral plans: remains very fragmented, with approximately two Dignitys national network of funeral locations and strong thirds of funeral directors relationships with many different anity partners has being small owner managed allowed it to sell significant volumes of pre-arranged businesses.
funerals that should represent incremental activity for the funeral division in the future.
Deaths in Great Britain Long-term expectations are for the number of deaths to reach 700,000 by 2040.
800,000 700,000 600,000 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 Source: Oce For National Statistics 0 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 09 8 Understanding Increasing competition the evolving Whilst our single biggest source of business remains previous experience and word trends and of mouth, the chart below demonstrates the ongoing decline of this traditional source dynamics that of business in the face of competition from an increasing trend towards pre-arranged funerals and other competitors.
are shaping the funeral sector.
Source of funerals based on client surveys 20% Source: Dignity surveys 84% 18% 82% 16% 80% 14% 78% 8 12% 76% 10% 74% 8% 72% Price and affordability 6% 70% 4% 68% The increased media and political interest in 2% 66% the rising cost of funerals in the last few years 0% 64% has aected the marketplace.
Consequently, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 price and aordability are rightly becoming increasingly important factors for a growing Reputation, Pre-arranged Closest location Other recommendation & funeral plans left hand axis left hand axis number of clients.
Combined with the previous experience left hand axis right hand axis internet which allows them to shop around, prices are coming under growing pressure.
Clients want a funeral company that can provide a range of pricing options while guaranteeing a high quality and value-formoney service.
8 Changing client demands It is clear that direct cremations represent a small, but increasing proportion of all funerals.
Sun Lifes 2017 Cost of Dying report also describes how, within their surveyed population, nine per cent compared to seven 8 per cent the year before of funerals last year were eco, environmental or woodland Connecting digitally funerals.
They also report 31 per cent of funerals being described by funeral directors According to ONS recent analysis, 90 per cent as a celebration of life funeral, and note a of households have access to the internet, significant increase in these types of service 78 per cent of consumers have accessed it on the previous year.
They should be on the go via a device and 75 per cent of interpreted as a direction of travel for those aged 55 to 64 now buy online.
Given consumer behaviour rather than precise this, it is not surprising that there is now metrics about the entire market.
significant use of the internet to ll the knowledge gap around funerals.
Data from Google indicates over 5.2 million searches in 2017 compared to 4.6 million in 2016 for The following pages funeral related advice and information.
The explain how we are most popular searches were for advice when someone dies and what is involved with responding to these arranging a funeral with searches for local challenges and funeral directors also very high.
Signicantly, the providers of this advice online are more positioning the business frequently consumer websites, media sites to maximise the and comparison websites rather than funeral directors.
Consumers also now expect to opportunities ahead.
be able to check or compare funeral prices online.
We also believe more people are shopping around, talking to more than one funeral director before making the arrangements.
8 10 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review continued Setting the standards for a modern funeral business through the quality of our services and competitive pricing.
Leveraging our brand and rolling out our digital strategy.
propositions for cremations and 8 simple funerals, as well as developing our pre-need packages.
We are also reviewing the advantages of launching The brand into other segments under dierent With a growing emphasis on price there sub-brands, including a mid-market is a risk that the industry becomes oering.
We have already launched our commoditised, with consumers initially aordable cremation service, Simplicity, choosing on price and assuming that all and subsequently oered three new funeral providers are the same.
In such packages and prices.
a market an ability to leverage a strong brand becomes crucial.
Strengthening the competitiveness of our funeral locations In addition, our marketplace is The combination of a strong national fragmented and increasingly online.
brand and a range of product and price This provides a challenge, but also a oerings to clients will strengthen the significant opportunity to leverage competitiveness of our branches.
our scale and create a powerful brand.
However, more can and will be done at In the pre-digital world, the strength a local level as part of a rigorous review of our local trusted businesses, trading to ensure our operations are organised on reputation and high-quality service to run more eciently and eectively.
In the digital age there is a compelling Simplicity Cremations requirement, and opportunity, to Simplicity oers low cost direct leverage and build a national brand cremations without any initial funeral and add that to the mix, supporting service that are both respectful and and enhancing our strong local market dignied.
They are an aordable positions.
The first step has been to alternative to a full funeral or for those create a new brand style and to begin wishing to have a simple cremation.
to develop brand awareness online.
We have recently added a pre-need This work is a strategic priority for 826 Locations option and will also be providing the the Group.
The Groups national coverage is option in future to attend one of our achieved through our 826 funeral 45 crematoria for a committal service.
New products and service levels locations.
The brand will be supported by a growing suite of products, product renements and price points.
We are working on and trialling new Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 11 75% 75 per cent of those aged 55 to 64 now buy online.
We are piloting a number of other 8 client-supporting initiatives and The internet is changing the services.
If successful this will be Good progress followed by national roll outs.
We are nature of competition as We want to ensure that when individuals also planning the second phase of the funeral industry enters are searching online for a funeral developments for our funeral director the digital age.
The Group director, we are well presented and are websites and are developing industryis well placed to respond and at the top of the list.
We have made leading content to support all funeralgood progress so far on this front.
lead as it is the only operator with a national network of We have set up websites for over In truth, the industry has been one funeral locations and 800 of our funeral directors and of the last to embrace the digital and crematoria.
started to strengthen the online online revolution.
There is much presence and authority of our main catching up to do but also major site.
As at January 2018, it had the opportunities for those leading players highest domain authority on websites who get it right.
We are absolutely of any provider.
determined to succeed and are making the investment in terms of technology The Group has also launched a new and people to ensure that we do.
In service for clients that makes it easier todays digitally enabled and data rich for them to notify family members world it is essential that we equip our through email, social media and the people with the latest technology and internet of funeral arrangements.
This tools to support their activities and the service also allows families to order services we provide to our clients.
owers and make donations online.
Funeral notices online The Group has launched a new online funeral notices service that makes it easier for clients to notify family members of funeral arrangements through social media and the internet.
The service also allows families to arrange owers and make donations.
Engaging with clients online Our ongoing digital investment is aimed at making our products and services more immediate, intuitive and relevant, supporting and assisting our clients at a dicult time.
12 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review continued Dignity also welcomed changes to 8 Leading the call the Funeral Planning Authority FPA, which acts as a self-regulatory body for regulation While increasing competition often for the sale of pre-arranged funeral leads to higher standards, in an plans.
The changes removed provider unregulated industry this is far less representation from the Board of the and higher certain and the funeral industry is a FPA and made them independent of case in point.
In addition, in the case those selling plans.
of a service industry, the quality of the FPA and compliance with its service being provided is not known requirements will help to provide in advance.
Consequently, the further comfort to clients as to the importance of reputation and, just quality of the plan they are buying.
as crucially, the need for regulation For our part, in 2017 we commissioned is paramount.
and published research into the prepaid funeral market, asking whether We regret very much that the provision this market was working well for of funeral services is not regulated and consumers.
We are continuing to External recognition have continued to lead calls for this engage with HM Treasury and the In 2017, Dignity Funeral Plans became to change.
Dignity would welcome FCA on the topic of regulation.
the first ever organisation in the UK regulation of the funeral industry which to be accredited the BSI Kitemark for set out minimum standards for core With regard to crematoria, these are customer service.
BSI produce technical standards for various services and activities such as the care of the subject to environmental regulations across many industries and their deceased, minimum standards of in accordance with The Secretary of Kitemark is a widely recognised facilities and also operating procedures States Guidance Notes for Crematoriasymbol of quality and trust globally.
PG5 2 12, with emission levels being monitored by Environmental Health We therefore continue to support Ocers in England and Wales and Scottish Environment Protection legislative changes by the Scottish Government enacted in 2016.
The abatement of mercury emissions has improved the provides it with the powers to regulate the funeral industry.
Dignity welcomes environmental position with Dignity abating more than the current this progress and anticipates making further contributions to the discussion legislative requirements.
Defaqto 5 Star Rating on the service standards required within the regulations.
Financial information business Defaqto has introduced a new five star rating for pre-paid funeral plans following research and analysis by 8 its independent experts.
Dignitys Diamond Funeral Plan was one of only five out of 97 funeral plans from Thought leadership from Dignity 26 providers in 2017 to receive the prestigious Defaqto 5 Star Rating.
The pre-paid funeral market The first is a study on the impact of Working with a respected and direct cremation funerals on grief, independent partner, Fairer Finance, working with bereavement specialists we commissioned a well-received and leading academics from home report which asked whether this and abroad.
The aim is to produce market was working well for guidance for consumers and the consumers.
industry on the decisions to be made at the point of determining a Ground-breaking research cremation, and their potential impact.
into cremations We wish to provide our clients with The second project looks at what the best possible service, one which consumers most value from a fully meets or exceeds their needs.
With this insight To do this we need to properly we will be able to ensure that our understand them and this requires cremation services are giving clients research.
At present we are what they really want and value, as exploring issues around cremations well as providing useful insights for through two research projects.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 13 Chief Executives review Outlook Q&A What opportunities do you see What has happened in your Q Q market to trigger this change for the Group in the changing An already fragmented market market environment?
As we mentioned at our Q3 trading We have the scale and strength to The internet is beginning to play update at the end of 2017, we continue leverage our brand.
We have the an increasing role and consumer to see significant competition across resources to ensure that we are behaviour is beginning to change.
A fragmented market is the leading provider in the digital After years of declining deaths and becoming more complicated.
We have the a significant rise in the number internet is belatedly bringing change management team and Board that can of funeral directors, although to the funeral market, and consumer and is responding rapidly to changing deaths are now projected to behaviour is beginning to change.
client demands in terms of product increase, we estimate that there Although deaths are now projected to and pricing.
We have the vision for are around 30 per cent fewer increase, we estimate that there are what a modern funeral service deaths per funeral director in the around 30 per cent fewer deaths per provider should be in the light of the UK compared to 25 years ago.
funeral director in the UK compared changes outlined above.
We have Clients are becoming more to 25 years ago.
Clients are becoming the ambition to get ahead of the price-sensitive and are shopping more price-sensitive and are shopping competitive curve and continue to around more.
provide sustainable growth and a We have been alert to the healthy future for all our stakeholders.
Due to these factors, the Group has challenges facing the Group in experienced a decline in its market this changing and increasingly Going forward, what are the share.
We have seen a rise in volume competitive environment.
At the Q Groups strongest assets?
The average reduction in the beginning of 2018 we judged that number of funerals per location per decisive action was needed to There are a number.
We have the one thousand deaths between 2004 address the challenges we faced.
required expertise and experience and 2014 was 3.6 per cent.
This We have taken that action and our to understand the marketplace and accelerated to 6.8 per cent per year focus this year is on delivering our respond to changing client needs.
The Board new pricing and product strategy.
run high quality operations and believe has been considering alternative we set the highest standards within At the same time we will continue pricing and strategic initiatives over the industry.
We have the financial to demonstrate industry leadership the last 18 months and believed that strength and quality of management to seek the regulated market that the time was right to reposition the to deliver on our strategic priorities.
will be good for clients and society business and its pricing to protect Most of all, we have the commitment which plays to our strengths as a market share.
of our people on the ground, who well-managed business with high regularly go the extra mile for clients levels of client satisfaction.
What are the Groups immediate and are expert and compassionate in Q strategic priorities?
dealing with people at an extremely dicult time in their lives.
Mike McCollum It is very clear.
We as a management Chief Executive team and Board have to deliver the How confident are you about new strategy.
This means promoting Q the future of the Group in the our new oerings and positioning to medium-term?
the marketplace and providing an unrivalled and competitively priced We saw that the funeral market was service, to the marketplace.
It means changing and have now taken steps considering new price points and to respond to the challenges.
We will service oerings as part of our evolving be performing further tests on pricing pricing and product strategy.
It means and services oered and these will rigorously reviewing our operations evolve as we analyse the results.
to ensure that they are more ecient Alongside this, we are taking a detailed and eective.
It also means we have look at our operational model.
to carefully monitor and review the progress we are making through this year.
Our goal is to protect market share and reposition the Group for future growth, recognising that our actions will have a substantial impact on profits in 2018 and that the new relationship between volumes and margins will take time to become clear.
