18 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT S TR A T E GI C P RO GRESS DESPITE CHALLENGING MARKET CONDITIONS MERLIN OPERATES IN A FUNDAMENTALLY ATTRACTIVE MARKETPLACE, BENEFITING FROM A NUMBER OF STRUCTURAL GROWTH DRIVERS OUR INVESTMENT CASE A global leader in location based entertainment, operating over 120attractions across 25 countries andfour continents.
Structurally attractive markets, fuelled by international tourism, desire to travel and experience, and growth in short breaks.
Clearly defined strategy, unchanged since the creation of Merlin almost 20 years ago.
Diverse portfolio of strong brands and iconic assets.
Exclusive, global licence to own and operate LEGOLAND parks.
A global leader in themed accommodation, driving growth and guest satisfaction in our theme parks.
Only company to successfully operate the Midway model on a global scale.
Strong cash flow generation, with a focus on capital discipline and returns.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 19 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 52 week growth Organic growth 30 December 24 December 31 December actual constant Like for like 1 1 1 2017 2016 2016 currency currency growth Visitors m 66.0 63.8 65.1 3.5% Revenue m 1,594 1,428 1,457 11.6% 6.6% 0.7% EBITDA m 474 433 451 9.5% 3.5% 1.0% Operating profit m 323 302 320 6.8% 0.0% 1 Last year we reported on the 53 weeks to 31 December 2016.
Profit metrics were provided on a 53 week statutory basis in the financial statements.
To provide a more direct comparison with this years 52 week period, the operating performance commentary in this section is stated on a 52 week basis, unless otherwise noted.
Overall, thanks to the flexibility in our strategic 2017 overview It is with this in mind that we continue to roll model and long term structural growth in A year that started well with positive out new Midway attractions in markets which, our markets, we therefore continue to target momentum in almost every part of the Group in the short term, may be more volatile.
was ultimately offset by the unprecedented broadly similar levels of organic growth, for Furthermore, developed markets have spate of terror attacks in the UK and poor to similar levels of investment, with a greater seen a substantial decline in the traditional extreme weather throughout the summer focus upon New Business Development.
two week summer holiday in favour of season in Europe.
Nonetheless Merlin, dueto Within our long-standing Midway roll out shorter, more frequent breaks.
This market its increasingly diversified portfolio, was still able model we are also recognising a differentiated dynamic benefits our theme parks which to deliver total revenue growth of 11.6% 6.6% approach.
Where we are opening core Midway are predominantly domestic-focused and organic growth and EBITDA of 474 million brands in developed markets, we continue to increasingly targeting the short break market versus 433 million in 2016, welcoming a expect EBITDA ROIC in the range of 15% to with themed accommodation, as well as our record 66 million visitors.
Recent openings such as LDC Melbourne Midway attractions located in city centres.
team worked hard and recorded significant and LDC Philadelphia are good examples of Finally, we also see broader trends benefiting achievements across theyear but, frustratingly, this.
In emerging markets, and with new brands, our theme parks and Midway attractions due to these external events, this result was we believe a longer term perspective to be located outside of gateway cities.
Growth in short of expectations and our budget.
more appropriate and therefore target a riskoverall wealth in both developed and emerging During the year, we made good progress against adjusted Internal Rate of Return IRR of 14%.
markets results in increased income available for our exciting New Business Development NBD leisure activities, and in many parts of the world, Market overview programme which continues to offer significant consumers are increasingly looking to spend Merlin operates in a fundamentally attractive structural growth opportunities.
We rolled thisincome on experiences, rather than goods.
marketplace, benefiting from a number of out further themed, on-site accommodation, Webelieve that this is further accentuated as structural growth drivers.
opening 383 rooms in the year at four of our the world becomes more digital, increasing theme parks.
Our Midway roll out included We believe that the long term trend for thevalue many consumers place on high-quality our first investment in India, Madame Tussauds overall international tourism remains strong, time shared with friends and family, away from Delhi, as well as the launch of a new brand which should lead to increased visitation and smartphones and screens.
Little BIG City in Berlin.
We opened a new spend, particularly in key gateway cities.
The LEGOLAND park in Japan in April, and in emerging middle classes around the world Strategy update October announced our plans to open a park in want to travel and seek new experiences in Against these attractive market dynamics, New York State in 2020.
Finally, we announced their own and foreign countries.
Combined Merlins strategy since 1999 has been to the launch of two new IP-based global with more affordable air travel and improved create a high growth, high return, family partnerships The Bear Grylls Adventure transportation, this has resulted in strong entertainment business naturally balanced and Peppa Pig and are on track to open our growth in international travel, with 1.8 billion against external factors.
Specifically, it is our pilot attractions under these brands in 2018. international tourist arrivals expected in 2030 aim to continue to diversify our portfolio, by a nearly threefold increase on the 2000 geography, brand and customer, ensuring a Merlin remains highly focused upon capital level.
In recent years we have seen a number balance of indoor and outdoor attractions discipline, so it is disappointing that the of shocks to international tourism, ranging and international and domestic visitation.
challenging trading environment of recent from the visa restrictions affecting travel from years has resulted in returns in some parts To achieve this, Merlin has six strategic the Peoples Republic of China to Hong Kong, of the business, particularly in Midway growth drivers.
Progress against these to the spate of terror attacks across Europe, London, being below our expectations.
driving visitors away from city centres and other As a result, in addition to the cost control high profile public places.
Our view however is measures already in place, we announced that, much like the impact of foreign exchange in October 2017 our intention to make rates on international tourism flows, these some medium term adjustments to our have resulted in a temporary displacement of long-standing approach to capital allocation.
tourism, rather than a permanent reduction While current volatile conditions endure, we in the attractiveness of these markets.
will reduce our existing estate investment in Midway Attractions and Resort Theme Parks, reallocating this towards backing the winners principally our accommodation strategy where we continue to see strong returns, and to a Productivity Agenda.
20 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED We expect average annual capex to be Health and safety Existing estate capex investment in the in the range of 60 to 70 million in the We seek to be an industry leader, driving existing estate allows us to grow visitation to medium term though this will vary depending best in class health, safety and security the attraction, provides us with something new to market, and provides a degree of pricing upon timing and mix of openings.
Throughout 2017 we have built power.
In 2017 each of our attractions invested upon the strong foundations of governance, New LEGOLAND parks in April, we in new products and features, with notable operating standards and practices, and I successfully opened LEGOLAND Japan investments including Ocean Invaders at SEA am pleased that we have seen a continued on capital budget and ahead of schedule.
LIFE London Aquarium, NINJAGO World improvement in the health and safety key Furthermore, we announced in October our at our LEGOLAND parks, and The Gruffalo performance indicator measuring medical plans to open the fully owned and operated River Ride Adventure at Chessington World of treatment cases of guests.
The safety and LEGOLAND New York Resort, including a Adventures.
In October 2017, we announced security of our guests and employees remains 250 room four star hotel, in 2020.
This will that we would be reallocating approximately our number one priority and we will continue see us invest approximately 250 million 100 million of capital away from the existing to invest in retaining our high standards.
in the site over the period 2017 to 2021. estate over the period 2018 to 2021, as we We remain confident in the long term Guest satisfaction seek to maintain our capital discipline in opportunity for new LEGOLAND parks.
We maintain our relentless focus on delivering the face of a difficult external environment, Strategic acquisitions reflecting the strict memorable experiences to our guests.
Guest focusing upon higher returning projects.
criteria we apply in assessing investments, we feedback is monitored on a daily basis by both Strategic synergies we continue to made no acquisitions during 2017.
We do local and central product excellence teams, and leverage the growing scale of the Group however continue to assess opportunities which is shared across all levels of the organisation.
In through better procurement, promotional may provide a platform for further expansion, as 2017 we delivered an average guest satisfaction activity and technology.
Across Merlin well as smaller, single site Midway assets.
score across the Group of 96%, whilst our annual passes and Group promotions we average Net Promoter score across our generate more than 100 million in annual Productivity Agenda attractions remains very strong at over 50%.
We have now rolled the accesso Merlin continues to face a number of e-commerce platform out across the majority external cost headwinds.
This is most notable Employee engagement of our estate, whilst the future focus of in employment costs, which represent Our annual employee survey The Wizard e-commerce will turn to opportunities in approximately half of our operating costs, Wants to Know allows our employees to short breaks, annual passes and cluster sales.
where we see significant pressures on wages: tell us what they think about Merlin.
I am very in Asia from market forces, and Europe and pleased that this has again shown very high Short break positioning the rationale for the USA where legislation is driving increases scores, with a 95% response rate, and 94% investment in on-site themed accommodation well above the rate of broader inflation.
saying that they enjoy working at Merlin.
Were and developing our theme parks into short Other fixed costs, including property taxes not complacent however, and we continue break resorts remains compelling.
We continue in the UK, insurance and utilities, are similarly to invest in our teams in order to create an to enjoy strong financial returns, improved levels increasing at rates ahead of broader inflation.
engaged, motivated and diverse workforce.
of guest satisfaction and increases in advanced bookings.
In 2017 we opened 383 rooms across Against this backdrop, we have been successful In what turned out to be a difficult year, a range of accommodation, and anticipate throughout 2017 in limiting the effect of softer I would like to thank our exceptional opening 644 in 2018.
We expect annual average trading through a combination of short term employees for their continued hard work capex to be in the range of 70 to 80 million cost savings such as variable labour costs.
The and commitment in delivering fun, safe, in the medium term though this will vary self-service ticketing terminals installed in our memorable experiences to all our guests.
depending upon timing and mix of openings.
London cluster, which will be rolled out more broadly, have been a good example of this, Midway roll out we seek to balance our Nick Varney allowing for a more efficient operation, and also Midway openings between core brands in Chief Executive Officer crucially resulting in positive guest feedback.
developed markets where we target a 15% 28 February 2018 to 25% EBITDA ROIC, and new brands or As announced in October, we will further emerging markets where we target a 14% evolve the way we work over the coming years risk-adjusted IRR.
We opened six new Midway as we seek more permanent, structural savings.
attractions in 2017 including MT Delhi our During 2018, we will begin the process of first investment in India and launched our increased investment in back office systems and new brand Little BIG City in Berlin.
We infrastructure, allowing us ultimately to better have nine attractions scheduled to open in leverage the growth of the Group.
These the second half of 2018, which will include actions seek to maintain Group margins at pilots of the recently announced brands current levels despite the continued challenging TheBear Grylls Adventure and Peppa Pig.
cost environment and market volatility.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 21 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 OUR EXCITING NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME CONTINUES TO OFFER SIGNIFICANT STRUCTURAL GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES
