Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 35 Sustainability Matters 37 Introduction: Why sustainability matters to us 38 Our impact on our stakeholders 40 Our people 42 Sustainable product 43 Sustainable supply chain 44 Our environment 48 Our communities Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 36 37 Why sustainability matters to us Developing and maintaining sustainable supplier SUSTAINABILITY IS PART OF relationships mitigates the Interruption to OUR CULTURE continuity of supply principal risk, and energyWhen we talk about the Howdens culture, efficient, safe, tested and durable product mitigates we describe it as being worthwhile for all our Product design relevance risk.
concerned... helping everyone we work with, in every community, to do well... and... creating the WHAT ARE THE MATERIAL AREAS FOR conditions that allow everyone to succeed.
These US AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS?
are the concepts that our business is built on, This report is organised in five sections, reflecting and they all lead to sustainable behaviour.
the main areas of importance to us and to our stakeholders: IT IS PART OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model leads naturally to sustainable People: safety, offering rewarding careers, being behaviour.
It is part of our competitive advantage.
a good company to work for.
Lowest cost production in our dedicated UK Sustainable product: safe, traceable, reliable factories leads naturally to trying to minimise waste and durable.
and the use of energy and raw materials.
It is also one of the reasons why we have developed an Sustainable supply chain: sustainable sourcing, efficient transport fleet that has won an award for timber management and chain of custody, active showing clear leadership in carbon reduction.
Our mission statement aim of no-call-back quality Environment: reducing waste, responsible means that we strive to produce and source product operations, lowering emissions, sustainable which is durable and safe.
Being trusted partners to both our suppliers and our Communities: local community projects, our customers means that our relationships with them work with Leonard Cheshire Disability, our on-call need to work for all parties over the long term.
firefighters and emergency first responders.
Our 660 local depots, and the relationships that Our sustainability KPIs relate to safety, use of wood those depots rely on to trade profitably, mean that from certified sources, recycling of waste and our success relies on us being a good neighbour in recycled packaging, and can be found on pages each of those communities.
IT MITIGATES OUR RISKS We discuss our principal risks on pages 28 to 32.
Sustainable behaviour helps us to address some of those risks.
For example, we place a great emphasis on looking after our people.
We invest in keeping them safe, developing their skills, and offering them rewarding careers and a great place to work.
We do this because its the right thing to do, but it also mitigates our Health & Safety and Loss of key personnel risks.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
