William Hill PLC 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CEOs review Strategy overview with Philip Bowcock Chief Executive Officer WilliamHill is regaining strength, focus and purpose, with anew leadership team in place.
Growth is being powered by Online and the US, Retail generates strong cash flows and there are exciting opportunities for expansion in the UK and internationally, particularly in US sports betting.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07 Overview Grow UK market share The UK has been and continues to WilliamHill begins 2018 in a much stronger beournear-term priority given the scale position after a year of significant change of our business and the continued growth for the business.
We continue to gain ofthedigital market.
Our brand, high street ground in the UK where customers are presence, product range, user experience responding to our improved Online and and large-scale investment in marketing omni-channel offers.
We are a leader and technology remain powerful drivers in sports betting in the US and are well inthis market and we aim to grow our positioned to benefit should more states market share further.
start to regulate if the pending Supreme Court opinion is positive.
Our three After a period of underperformance, Online is now competing well again.
We Looking ahead, we will invest in more focus areas continue to enhance the product and user innovation in Online and our omni-channel experience for customers, with innovations We are focused on three platform, as well as in the US to ensure like #YourOdds and improvements to make we can unlock its full potential at the right strategic priorities to drive our service quick and easy to use.
A key pillar of our strategy moving UK growth and international optimised our digital marketing activities forward will be to act in a sustainable diversification.
and are investing in new capabilities way and to take greater account of all our using programmatic marketing and stakeholders than we may have in the past.
artificial intelligence to make these even In the months ahead we will be taking a 01 more effective.
number of steps to ensure that we embed Grow UK this approach for the long term.
Recognising that a significant proportion market share of customers want to gamble both in the We have continued to expand the already shops and online, we have built strong extensive skill set of the Executive team.
foundations for our omni-channel 02 Ruth joined us as CFO in October and we experience, including our proprietary selfare pleased to welcome Ulrik Bengtsson, Grow international service betting terminals, and will continue the former President and CEO of Betsson revenues to extend this to ensure customers can Group, in the new role of Chief Digital enjoy our products and experiences Officer, overseeing Online, global data, however suits them best.
Retail remains a global brand, marketing and customer 03 strong partner to Online, with a prominent service.
Crispin Nieboer, after two very brand within UK communities and a highDeliver key projects: successful years in charge of the Online quality service provided by our shop teams.
business, is moving into the role of Group technology and Corporate Development Director, with transformation Grow international revenues theUS being his immediate priority.
Internationally, there are opportunities for us to take our established expertise With a strengthened team in place, we have into other markets, particularly as digital started this World Cup year with a renewed has broken down borders and more sense of purpose and look forward to governments are moving to regulate maintaining our momentum.
Our goal is, ultimately, Personally and on behalf of the Board, toreduce our reliance on the UK, where I would also like to record our thanks to any economic, fiscal or regulatory changes Gareth Davis, who steps down as Chairman currently have a meaningful impact on in April after more than seven and a half our performance.
Gareth has steered the The US is an obvious opportunity for us Board through some challenging times, as we are the leading sports betting brand during which his resilience and good in Nevada, the only large-scale legalised humour have been invaluable.
He leaves state for betting.
Should the federal ban with our thanks and very best wishes.
PASPA be overturned by the Supreme Court, we will look to leverage the strengths Strategy overview we have built so far, including our casino In August 2017, we outlined our three relationships and our proven track record, strategic priorities and we have made good and will invest to move quickly in this progress against these this year.
Should the US take longer to come through, we are exploring opportunities in markets elsewhere in the world, particularly in the Americas and Asia, to exploit our strengths in sports betting.
William Hill PLC 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CEOs review continued Deliver key projects: technology This could be the most significant shift and transformation inthe gambling sector in the last decade.
Q&A There are two projects that underpin our Andwere excited to go at it.
This was strategy: the transformation programme, exactly why WilliamHill US was created with Philip referred to as restructuring costs in note 3 six years ago to give us a presence to the financial statements, and evolving in Nevada and have a strong platform our technology platform.
should sports betting regulation change.
Whats behind your We are anestablished entity with a brand The transformation programme is outperformance in 2017?
presence, local management and an delivering both accelerated revenue growth This business has been in transition.
and in excess of 40m of annualised cost Were now regaining strength, focus and savings, which we are reinvesting in the On the risk side, were waiting to hear purpose, with a new leadership team in business.
It is a wide-ranging programme from the UK Government on the Triennial place.
Growth is being powered by Online addressing areas such as marketing Review.
Its clear gaming machine play and the US and were investing to drive this efficiency, IT efficiency, customer service will be further restricted, but how far faster, supported by savings weve delivered optimisation, third-party spend, location has yet to be confirmed.
That clarity from the transformation programme.
Retail strategy, the omni-channel strategy and is key to understanding what capital has delivered another robust performance back-office functions.
The three-year we have available to invest across our and weve managed our Australia business programme will be completed in 2019. businesses.
Weve come a long way in carefully given regulatory headwinds.
encouraging responsible gambling among So its really the sum of the parts.
The global technology programme is our customers.
But we fully recognise designed to address our long-term strategic people remain concerned and want to How sustainable needs.
Currently, the Group has three seeus do more.
Its part of the reason separate platforms that support our UK is that into 2018?
whysustainability has become a greater European operations, Australia and the US, Were competitive again in the UK both priority for the business.
much of it now developed and run in-house.
in Online and with our omni-channel Given the scale and cost of the technology customers who cross over between Retail How can you offset infrastructure, our goal is to leverage a core and Online and were starting to regain the impact of the platform across as much of the business market share.
The World Cup will bring in as possible.
more competition but were well placed to Retail is a well-run business so there isnt compete.
Weve also positioned ourselves In addition to these three strategic the scope to offset significant revenue to be an early mover in the US, which priorities, we are changing how we build reductions with cost-saving measures.
potentially could open up sports betting.
Once we know what the Government sets Were looking for clarity for Retail with We recognise that its not enough to as the new maximum stake, well know a decision on the Triennial Review and a grow: we have to grow the right way.
how much revenue is at risk and be able strategic review in Australia is taking place.
Considerable concern is being expressed toestimate how much might be recycled Importantly, were also changing our stance about the gambling industry and it needs orsubstituted into other products.
That on sustainability, recognising wider social to be addressed.
Some of that is about willgive us a shop-by-shop view of revenues concerns and wanting to strike the right helping people better understand what and profitability.
Shop closures are sadly balance between our commercial and wealready do.
But we also need to change, inevitable the question is how many and responsible gambling goals.
This is about to rebalance our commercial goals and over what timeframe.
We have modelled building a long-term sustainable business, our responsible gambling aims in order different scenarios but were dealing with not just what we can deliver in 2018. to build a sustainable business for all our an unprecedented set of circumstances stakeholders.
Its about how we invest sowe can only guess at what the customer What excites you in delivering our objectives as a licensed response will be.
Well need to see how that most?
And whats company to treat customers fairly and plays out before we can reasonably make your biggest risk?
openly, to protect the vulnerable and to decisions on the future of some of the keep crime out of gambling.
And its about Regulatory change is the answer to both shops.
We will of course consult with our how we use WilliamHills unique strengths of those.
On the up side, its about the US colleagues ahead of any closures.
our community presence, the opportunities potential.
Theres been a federal ban on we offer and our relationship with sport to state-sponsored sports betting since 1992, make a positive contribution to the world.
but with a carve-out for four states.
Its an anomaly that Nevada casinos can take bets but Atlantic City casinos cant.
It was asurprise when the Supreme Court decided to take the case, but the legal arguments are strong.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09 Whats behind Our strategic priorities Onlinesrejuvenation?
This is about a thousand different 01 Grow UK market share improvements that add up to making Online a highly competitive business again.
Making the wider Group fitter and more focused.
From overhauling the user experience UX and major product innovations to tiny tweaks to user journeys.
From redesigning our geographic footprint and rationalising our data centres to buying pay-per-click words more effectively.
Its been a huge task and the success were now seeing is testament to the passion, commitment and sheer hard graft of so many people in the business.
Some say youre behind the curve on the omnichannel strategy in the UK.
In Online, we continue to evolve our product Whats your view?
range and user experience UX to deliver This is about doing it right, not doing it fast.
Others have focused on plundering retail afast, efficient and engaging service.
Were about bringing the experience to the customer.
In addition to enhancing We have, in our view, materially Soit started with using SSBTs to bring great increased our competitiveness the efficiency of our digital new products into the shops.
And when the marketing and implementing over the last 18 months third-party solution didnt cut it, we built with personalised products programmatic marketing our own.
Thats also given us a seamless, since August, we increased such as #YourOdds and Bet integrated platform for everything else we Boost.
Gaming benefited our Online marketing spend wanted to give customers: the WilliamHill by 14% to 138.7m, and will from the compounding effect Plus service the app and the card to ofimproved UX, new content increase that again in 2018, extend the experience outside the shop, releases, better customer a World Cup year.
Cost of and the single wallet to give existing acquisition and higher crosscustomer acquisition increased Online customers an easy way to deposit, sell rates as a result of the 10% as the increase in new withdraw or play with their account funds changes we have been making customers lags the increase in in the shop.
Were very proud of what were since mid-2016.
We continue giving customers now.
to the new desktop site began to enhance our data systems, inQ4 2017.
New customers are combining 12 legacy systems now directed to the new site, on 34 different servers into one We increased our online with favourable performance single customer-centric view marketing spend by against a control group.
Find out more Page 18 14% William Hill PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CEOs review continued Our strategic priorities Our strategic priorities 02 03 Grow international Technology and revenues transformation Leveraging our scale and expertise Enabling our business through technology outside of the UK.
Having built a highly competitive Australia Setting up for success Technology at the heart While Australia has some ofour business digital offering in the UK, one The transformation programme of the most advanced and attractive characteristics, is enabling WilliamHill to get fit By building out our internal regulatory change has made technology capability, we innovative markets globally, for the future.
The focus is on we can compete strongly in this a difficult market and our improving the core capabilities enhance the speed at which we business has underperformed.
bring new products to market, international markets and essential for delivering a thereby diversify our business.
These and potential future tax successful and sustainable our responsiveness to market changes mean that greater opportunities and our ability business for the long term.
US scale is likely to be necessary More than 250 initiatives to understand and adapt to We established WilliamHill for our Australian business customer preferences in real are being addressed by the US in 2012 and have built to be sustainable.
We are, programme, covering both time, all of which are important astrong track record and key therefore, currently undertaking to improving our digital offering cost efficiencies and revenue relationships since then.
We a strategic review, considering generation with savings and for any new markets we are keen to be in a position to organic and inorganic options.
may choose to enter in the reinvested in the business take advantage of the evolving We expect to conclude the todrive faster growth.
The co-location of opportunity in the US.
technology and other functions Reinvestment has been and the rationalisation of sites, The Supreme Court surprised Rest of World focused on enhancing our which are coming down from everyone in June by announcing Over the last year the UK competitiveness around a total of 11 down to eight as that it would hear the New hasbeen the Groups priority.
digital marketing, product part of the transformation Jersey case to repeal the However, we have continued development and technology programme, is already Professional and Amateur to invest in Italy and Spain capabilities, supporting faster encouraging more efficient Sports Protection Act 1992 tomaintain a leading position.
revenue growth through ways of working within the IT PASPA.
After 25 years of a Online also takes revenues from arange of initiatives focused team and better co-ordination federal ban, the US could be on a number of other regulating onacquisition, conversion and between technology and the verge of regulating sports markets.
These present player lifetime value.
betting with a number of states interesting opportunities include innovative product already drafting legislation.
Find out more forfuture expansion.
launches such as Bet Boost, With a decision expected Page 91 hiring 100 new product Find out more in 2018, we are investing developers to create improved Page 20 to prepare for potential product and UX offerings, and expansion opportunities.
reallocating resources to invest in a scalable, efficient and increasingly targeted digital marketing platform.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 We are focused on improving our approach to responsible gambling to build a long-term, sustainable business for all ourstakeholders, and especially for any of our customers whoare at risk from problem gambling.
What makes you think You talk about changing How do you think about WilliamHill can compete your approach to M&A in the context of internationally?
Is this just your strategy?
The digital world for gambling is still quite Consolidation is an obvious route for this small only about 9% of global gambling sector.
There are almost 800 remote Far from it.
This is bone deep change revenues.
Within this, the UK is the single gambling licences issued in the UK within WilliamHill.
And it resonates strongly largest regulated market, five times bigger alone.
And theres meaningful value to internally.
Theres such pride among than the next.
Its a sophisticated market be generated from cost synergies as WilliamHill people.
We love what we do, we where large-scale, sophisticated digital demonstrated by the three big deals in the love our customers and were proud of our businesses have grown up in response last two years, which generated synergies heritage.
But its hard to be proud when tothe competitive intensity.
That stands in excess of 100m each.
But, ideally, Id youre being vilified by media and politicians usin good stead in other markets.
The UK want M&A to take us forward strategically alike.
Across society, theres clearly a wider isalso recognised by partners, governments as well, to diversify our revenue streams, mistrust of gambling companies.
While and regulators as a well-run industry and, whether geographically or through other some attitudes may not be balanced, they as one of the most trusted brands in the UK products or channels, so we can reduce our cant be ignored.
How we go about this will market, that opens doors for WilliamHill.
define us as a company for years to come.
Its about doing the right things for the Right now, were in a great place.
That starts and ends with Why do you think you in our view, a premium standalone sports our customers treating them as we would can compete in the US?
Were competing hard in want to be treated.
Were at the very start the UK.
Weve got the potential of the US When WilliamHill started looking at the of this journey.
And weve got a robust balance US six or seven years ago, it was always going to challenge all of us.
What we need is clarity from the with a view to this kind of opportunity thing for us to do.
Supreme Court on PASPA and from the developing.
At that time, it was difficult to UK Government on the Triennial Review.
assess where the US is going as a market Can you describe the Only then can we know whats right for the it could be massive or it could have been changes you plan to future of this business.
nothing, so putting a lot of capital at risk would have been a difficult decision.
equally, the point at which change comes, Do you plan to make This touches every part of our business.
it can come quickly and you dont want to Well rebalance our commercial and anyfurther changes be sitting in London, scratching your head sustainability goals.
Well ensure our tothe team?
for ideas on how to break into the market.
assurance functions are well invested Were in really good shape now having Which is why WilliamHill moved into sports and robust enough to challenge us and expanded the skillset of the Group betting in Nevada in 2012.
Now, we have keep us honest.
Well make it part of Executive and with a new CEO, CFO a business with a strong track record, a every colleagues role.
Well revisit how andChairman Designate, and three new respected and recognised management wemarket and advertise to customers.
The business team, established relationships with casino Well take ownership of problem gambling will always change as we respond to operators and the wider industry, and the understanding it and actively contributing opportunities and challenges, but Im really early foundations of brand recognition.
to the wider engagement on research, happy with where we are now.
Ifthe Supreme Court overturns PASPA, this education and treatment.
Well do more is a major new market with both enormous tohelp at risk customers to stop problems customer appetite for betting and no largedeveloping.
Well build collaborative scale legal incumbent.
relationships to become a true partner Its not going to be easy itll take time, to regulators and government.
And management focus and capital but weve well rebuild our relationships with other given ourselves a real headstart.
industries where the naturally symbiotic relationships have, to some degree, broken down with horseracing and greyhound racing, for instance.
