CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW MY JOB CREATING OUR STRATEGY... Overview Key financial performance metrics 2017 has been an important year for St. Modwen.
Following a 2017 2016 Change full review of our business, our portfolio and our pipeline, we are pursuing a more focused strategy, better suited to the external NAV per share pence 450.9 431.0 4.6% environment we operate in, and have begun to build momentum EPRA NAV per share pence 471.2 460.5 2.3% in executing this strategy.
We can deliver this strategy over the next Dividend per share pence 6.28 6.00 4.7% few years through a targeted approach to our existing portfolio of projects rather than needing to acquire more, an important source Total accounting return % 6.0 5.6 0.4ppt of advantage in investment markets which remain very competitive.
Trading profit m 64.6 56.1 15.2% Our strategy is intended to improve returns on capital by Adjusted EPRA earnings m 29.4 21.5 36.7% concentrating our activities on sectors that have long-term structural growth characteristics while also enhancing our flexibility Profit before all tax m 67.0 60.8 10.2% through tightly controlling leverage and reducing the proportion Profit before tax m 70.3 66.9 5.1% of our portfolio invested in land.
This is captured through our four Earnings per share pence 26.9 24.1 11.6% strategic objectives: portfolio focus and capital discipline: accelerate our commercial development activity: grow our residential and Adjusted EPRA earnings housebuilding business: and cement and grow our regeneration per share pence 13.3 9.7 37.1% reputation.
See-through net borrowings m 388.2 517.0 -24.9% Our results for the year were solid.
We delivered 4.6% growth in 1 See-through loan-to-value % 24.2 30.5 -6.3ppt NAV per share to 450.9 pence 2016: 431.0 pence which, together with dividends paid during the year, resulted in a total accounting See-through loan-to-value 1 return of 6.0% 2016: 5.6%.
Our EPRA NAV per share rose 10.7 pence excluding residential % 37.2 54.3 -17.1ppt over the year to 471.2 pence 2016: 460.5 pence and profit before 1 Including the Groups share of net borrowings and property held in joint ventures all tax increased to 67.0m 2016: 60.8m with EPS of 26.9 pence and associates.
We achieved strong progress against all key performance indicators for the year.
Looking forward, we will continue to focus on total return, earnings and net borrowings as our key performance measures.
Our key performance metrics include a new measure of adjusted EPRA earnings and an associated adjusted EPRA EPS calculation.
This is a measure of profits which excludes non-cash valuation movements and will be used as a reference for dividend payments in the future.
With effect from the 2017 18 financial year we intend to pay a dividend equivalent to approximately 50% of adjusted EPRA EPS, with the aim to provide a sustainable, progressive dividend for our shareholders.
We will cease to use profit before all tax as a key performance measure with effect from the 2017 18 financial year.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 8 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Mark Allan Chief Executive St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Enhancing our organisations design and culture Accelerating our commercial development activity: Successful execution of our strategy relies on having an organisation committed pipeline up 38% that is closely aligned to our strategic objectives and where individuals Across the course of 2017 we increased commercial development and teams understand the role they play in helping deliver the activity, completing 1.4m sq ft of new space with a completed value strategy.
With this in mind, during the second half of the year we of 216m.
Of this total, 102m was pre-sold or has since been sold restructured the business from seven to three regions, each focused and 41m is held pending sale.
The 73m we retained principally on accelerating commercial development activity and bringing comprises developments completed towards the end of 2017 forward residential land for development: a new central asset where occupancy currently stands at 54% by rental value, with a management function responsible for shaping and managing our further 11% under offer and full occupancy targeted during 2018. income producing portfolio: and St. Modwen Homes as a standalone Entering the 2017 18 financial year our committed development housebuilder within the Group.
These discrete business units are pipeline stands at 1.6m sq ft with an expected value on completion supported by central functions such as HR and finance.
As part of of 326m, up 38% compared to the 237m of completed value at this restructuring, and with our growth objectives in mind, we have the beginning of 2017.
We expect the pipeline to grow throughout identified a total of 10 new senior roles into which we are recruiting 2018 as planning consent is granted to future schemes, subject to during 2018. market demand.
Around 90% of our committed pipeline is focused We are also focusing on creating a culture of empowerment, on sectors with good structural growth characteristics, such as accountability and support in order to deliver the strategy.
This industrial and logistics, PRS or student accommodation, and this started in 2017 with the organisational design work described will remain a feature of our development activity going forward.
above to create clear, consistent structures, roles and responsibilities Approximately 40% of our industrial and logistics pipeline is pre-let across the Group and will continue in 2018 with the launch of or pre-sold, compared to 21% a year earlier.
tailored management and leadership development programmes.
Approximately 700m of our medium-term pipeline relates to Recognising the need for our culture and organisation to be industrial and logistics projects with an estimated rental value of appropriate for the future, we have also taken the opportunity to 45m.
As part of our strategy to focus on sectors with growth refresh our branding and visual identity, which will be rolled out characteristics underpinned by long term structural trends, we during 2018. intend to retain the majority of this pipeline for the longer term.
Our teams have performed extremely well throughout the year and remain the bedrock of the business, possessing considerable Growing our residential and housebuilding business: skills and experience that can help us continue to create significant Homes targeting c. 25% growth value for all our stakeholders.
Our focus on creating the right Our residential activities performed well throughout 2017.
In organisational design and culture will help them flourish in the addition to the sale of Nine Elms Square, over 2,200 units of years ahead.
oven-ready land were either transferred to St. Modwen Homes or sold in the open market, with a total value of 137m.
Proceeds from Portfolio focus and capital discipline: reshaping our portfolio third party sales totalled 56m 2016: 48m, with sales at or above Reflecting our new, focused strategy the shape of our portfolio book value.
The market remains robust with a healthy outlook for began to shift over the course of 2017 and this process will continue 2018, for which we expect to secure at least a similar level of into 2018 and beyond.
The successful disposal of the Nine Elms residential land sales.
Square development site at New Covent Garden Market in August At St. Modwen Homes we continued to grow sales volumes for a gross consideration of 470m net St. Modwen share 190m materially while maintaining a focus on quality and on-site safety.
released significant capital into the business and contributed In total we sold 694 new homes, up from 485 in 2016 and achieved towards the overall reduction in value of our land assets, meaning 5-star status from the HBF and a Gold safety accreditation from that income producing assets now make up 51% of our portfolio, RoSPA.
Margins improved to 13.9% 2016: 13.4%, resulting in an up from 45% a year ago.
We intend to increase this level further.
operating profit of 23.3m, and the growth in profits from St. Modwen The capital released from the sale allowed us to reduce leverage Homes more than offset the reduction in profits associated with the and also begin to invest in our other strategic priorities.
wind-down of our Persimmon Joint Venture 8.1m of operating During 2018 we expect to be active in the disposal of many of our profit compared to 11.8m in 2016.
Average private sales prices smaller assets and also in reducing our exposure to retail assets.
We increased 19% to 259,000 for the year.
Like-for-like sales prices are targeting asset sales of this type of between 100m and 150m were up 6%, with the balance reflecting an increase in average in total across the course of the year and have already made unit size and greater levels of activity at Uxbridge, Greater London.
progress with terms agreed on the disposal of approximately 40m Looking forward, we expect sales volumes for St. Modwen Homes of such assets.
The proceeds from our disposal programme will be to grow by up to 25% in 2018 and, with a robust outlook for recycled into retaining the majority of assets from our industrial regional house prices as well as a range of internal initiatives being and logistics development programme.
pursued, we expect margins to improve by a similar level again In terms of capital discipline, see-through net borrowings at across the course of the year.
We will continue to prioritise quality 30 November 2017 stood at 388m, down from 517m a year and safety and, as these features become more firmly embedded, earlier and our see-through LTV reduced to 24.2% 2016: 30.5%.
we are confident they will form a foundation from which financial Excluding residential, which is our preferred measure, see-through performance can be improved further.
LTV fell from 54.3% to 37.2% at the year end.
Since the year end we have also refinanced the majority of our debt facilities such that we are now financed on a fully unsecured basis, providing a cost effective, greater level of flexibility as we execute our strategy.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 10 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Cementing and growing our regeneration reputation: Looking forward good progress across the board 2018 promises to be a year of growth, focus and portfolio transition We made important progress at each of our major regeneration for St. Modwen.
Having established our new strategy in 2017 and projects during the year and were also successful in securing new put in place the appropriate organisation to deliver it, we are now opportunities focused on large scale residential development.
At Bay Campus, Swansea we successfully completed the most From a development perspective, we are confident that our recent phase of student accommodation and commenced work activities are focused in areas that benefit from positive growth on the next phase of academic facilities and accommodation.
fundamentals, particularly in industrial logistics and regional Significant development opportunities remain and we continue to housebuilding, and we are seeking to accelerate activity in both of work in close partnership with Swansea University to unlock them.
Importantly, this acceleration is based on Since the year end we have sold the completed first 2,005 beds of increasing the rate at which we progress our existing pipeline of student accommodation to UPP for a net cash consideration of projects from our existing capital base: we have no need to acquire 87m, introducing an experienced operator onto the campus and assets in what is a very competitive market and we have no need releasing capital to invest in the next phases of development.
to attract additional funding given the opportunities for recyling capital out of our existing portfolio.
As a result, we anticipate a At Longbridge, 2017 saw the successful completion of 180 meaningful improvement in both earnings and return on capital beds of medical accommodation pre-sold to the MoDs DIO, a in the medium term.
260-apartment Extracare retirement village and further phases of new homes.
Longbridge is now approximately 50% developed and Our commercial investment portfolio is beginning a period of significant further opportunities remain, which we will be focused transition as we seek to shift our focus towards industrial and on during 2018. logistics through retaining a greater proportion of our development pipeline and reducing our exposure to both retail and smaller, less At New Covent Garden Market, held in our VSM joint venture with efficient assets.
This planned portfolio rotation is likely to result in VINCI, we successfully sold the first 10 acres of surplus land at Nine some short-term volatility to our rental income profile, and Elms Square.
We also progressed the redevelopment of the market therefore earnings, but will ultimately leave us with a higher quality facilities with completion of both the interim flower market and earnings stream and more focused portfolio.
Longer term, this the interim delivery unit, all of which unlocks the next phases of should also provide the foundations for a meaningful increase in redevelopment.
At this important juncture of the project we have the income component of our returns.
undertaken a detailed review of our future obligations, resulting in an increase of our share of the cost provisions on the project by The external environment is uncertain and is likely to remain so for 24.6m.
This reflects our experience of the project to date and, some time, but we believe that our more focused strategy is well in particular, the constraints imposed by operating in a live suited to such an environment.
Our business is focused primarily environment.
This was partly offset by a 14.5m increase in the in the regions, where there are less pronounced Brexit-related value of the land.
headwinds for property markets than in Central London, and on sectors that benefit from good structural growth prospects and, in Outside of our three major projects we were also successful in the case of regional housebuilding, supportive Government policy.
securing two new large scale residential development opportunities that provide an opportunity to showcase our infrastructure and The combination of our focused strategy, deep pipeline of projects, planning capabilities.
We have been appointed as master developer financial strength and unrivalled track record and expertise leaves at both Wantage, South Oxfordshire for the construction of 1,500 us well placed for the future.
new homes with associated infrastructure and Buckover, South Gloucestershire for the construction of a new 3,000 home garden Mark Allan village with associated infrastructure.
Both of these opportunities Chief Executive have been secured on a capital light basis whereby land is drawn 5 February 2018 down from the land owner on a phased basis linked to the pace of development and our return is linked to a share of planning gains and a margin on infrastructure works.
TO UNLOCK VALUE St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 11
