CHIEF EXECUTIVES We have again demonstrated STATEMENT our ability to deliver both our CAPITALISE ON short-term financial goals and EXISTING AND FUTURE our long-term strategic priorities OPPORTUNITIES in the face of a challenging Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer external environment.
This year we have continued to make good progress delivering our long-term strategic goals.
The challenges we face in all our markets have been well documented, however our continued focus on meeting consumer needs, successfully executing our commercial plans and driving cost efficiency has translated into a strong full year performance.
We have delivered revenue and margin growth and our adjusted EBITA increased by 5.1%, enabling us to deliver an 8.2% increase in the full year dividend.
Generate profitable growth in our core markets GB The GB soft drinks market, as measured by Nielsen, has for the first time in several years seen value growth ahead of volume.
Thanks to disciplined revenue management we have led the value growth in the soft drinks category and successfully protected our profitability in response to rising costs driven by underlying cost inflation and the weakening of sterling.
Margins improved in the second half of the year following the implementation of revenue management changes.
In the carbonates category, we have continued to focus on no and low-sugar offerings.
Despite a highly competitive grocery market, Pepsi MAX has continued to gain volume and value share and we have seen an excellent performance from the R Whites brand, following the introduction of a premium range last year.
In GB stills, whilst we have seen a decline in revenue, our performance trajectory has improved year on year and, encouragingly, we have returned to volume growth.
Robinsons and Fruit Shoot have faced pricing pressure in grocery, largely due to aggressive private label and branded competition.
Whilst we anticipated a weaker final quarter, it was worse than expected due to the poor weather in July and August.
Warm weather during the school holidays is particularly beneficial to our portfolio of still brands.
We have continued to benefit from a strong performance in our portfolio of immediate refreshment packs, while in the leisure channel we have won or retained major accounts such as Mitchells & Butlers, Marstons and KFC.
Our recent innovations, which we believe offer significant future growth opportunities, have performed well and now represent 5.4% of total revenue.
Purdeys, a healthier, more natural energy drink, is resonating with consumers and increased its retail value by 55% this year.
In the second half of the year we launched Robinsons Refreshd and we are really pleased with its early performance, achieving 4m retail sales value in 19 weeks since launch.
This ready-to-drink format offers naturally sourced ingredients and no added sugar, enabling consumers to enjoy tasty, healthy hydration at only 55 calories per bottle.
France The soft drinks market, as measured by IRI, has remained subdued, reflecting both the poor summer weather and the continued impact of the consolidation of procurement by grocery retailers.
Despite these headwinds, our revenues increased, driven by the growth of our branded portfolio.
We have focused our juice brand marketing on the organic Pressade brand and have seen consumers respond positively to the introduction of the Bonjour range of breakfast time 10 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information juices.
In addition, Fruit Shoot has continued to grow, benefiting from the recent introduction of new flavour variants and the SIMON LITHERLAND launch of a higher-juice Fruit Shoot range called Fruizeo, that uses spring water and has no added sugar.
ANSWERS TOPICAL Ireland SHAREHOLDER QUESTIONS The year has seen continued success in Ireland, with growth in both our own brand portfolio and the Counterpoint wholesale business.
Growth in Counterpoint has been further boosted by additional business in Dublin following the successful completion of the acquisition of East Coast in January.
Our owned brands, including Ballygowan and MiWadi, have grown whilst 7UP declined in a competitive lemon and lime category.
How do you see the consumer environment, any Realise global opportunities in kids, family and adverse change in consumer behaviour this year?
adult categories We have yet to see any material change in consumer After a very successful first year in Brazil, we have seen the demand for our products in any of our sales channels well-publicised macro environment challenges have an adverse in GB.
In Ireland, the retail environment has remained effect on consumer spending and FMCG categories.
Our focus deflationary and in France, the consumer environment has been twofold.
Firstly, we have looked to protect margins has remained stable this year.
The macroeconomic in the short term to ensure our business is well positioned environment in Brazil has been challenging this year for now and for the future.
We have increased prices to offset high consumer goods companies, and soft drinks has been cost inflation, yet continued to take share thanks to our strong affected as have many other categories.
There is pressure in-store execution.
Secondly, we have continued to invest in on disposable incomes, unemployment has remained the long-term opportunities we see: we continued to expand high and so people have been cutting back.
our brand portfolio including continuing the roll out of Fruit Shoot, and we have extended our geographic reach through the acquisition of Bela Ischia, where we will exceed the Why has pro t after tax gone down?
We believe we are taking the right actions to build a strong, sustainable position for Profit after tax is a statutory measure and takes into account future long-term growth.
one-off costs that have been incurred.
In our case the bulk We continue to invest in our international business for of these one-off costs relate to our business capability long-term growth, and our efforts to improve the profitability programme and cover things such as scrapping old assets of the business unit are delivering results.
In the United States and dual-running costs of old and new lines.
Adjusted Fruit Shoot has made steady progress this year.
We continue EBITA which adjusts for these one-off costs generated to work with PepsiCo to grow the presence of singles outside growth of over 5%.
of the convenience & gas channel into areas such as foodservice and leisure.
In the grocery channel, we are now lapping the first year of multi-pack in market.
We have retained key listings Are you feeling more or less con dent on the and retailer feedback has been positive as we head into year prospects for Fruit Shoot in the USA than last year?
The focus is to ensure we deliver the best experience in We have made steady progress over the last 12 months, outlet.
Alongside this we are working behind the scenes to growing distribution and market share.
As we head into optimise the supply chain framework to improve profitability.
2018 we are clear on our priorities of delivering consistent, To date we have seen enough proof points to support our quality in-store execution.
Improving availability on-shelf, belief that there is a meaningful opportunity for us to invest in, great feature and display as well as building awareness but is still too early to call it a long-term success.
through sampling and trial are all key areas to focus on.
Continue to step-change our business capability We are now two years into the three year business capability programme and this year we have a seen a significant amount of progress.
Our Leeds site is now close to completion, with both the big and small PET lines up and running and the automation of the new warehouse due for completion in the coming months.
Our London site is now fully operational with a new flexible PET line and on-site warehouse completed.
The site that has seen the most change this year is Rugby, where we have installed three new can lines and started the groundworks for the new warehouse and aseptic line that will come on-stream next year.
We are ahead of schedule on the delivery of benefits, with 3m feeding through to the bottom line in 2017.
In October, we announced the proposed closure of our Norwich site in 2019.
Subject to completion of consultation, production of Robinsons and Fruit Shoot is then proposed to transfer to our other GB sites, with additional PET lines proposed to be installed to accommodate this.
We are fully committed to treating our employees fairly and with respect, and will be providing a full support package including redeployment, Purdeys assistance to find jobs elsewhere and redundancy packages.
Purdeys was relaunched in 2016 to target the demand Upon completion of the proposed works in early 2019, for a more natural energy drink.
Purdeys is a multivitamin we will then be in a position to realise the full benefits of the juice drink that contains vitamins and natural botanicals to programme from 2020 in line with previously stated guidance.
It has performed well with consumers As well as greater production efficiency, we will benefit from and increased its retail value by 55% this year.
In 2017, reduced distribution costs and will be able to unlock a working we introduced Purdeys in a 250ml can format, helping capital benefit by carrying lower inventory.
Free cash flow more people to thrive on the go.
conversion should accelerate significantly, as capital Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 expenditure reduces to more normal levels from 2019 and benefits continue to accrue.
The benefits go beyond cost CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT savings and lower stock levels, as this state of the art network CONTINUED provides a broader range of pack sizes and configurations to enable our commercial teams to participate more effectively in the market.
We continue to roll out the programme to other business units, with the closure of our Nangor Road distribution A strong performance for GB carbonates this year, centre in Ireland and the outsourcing of logistics, and the saving especially Pepsi MAX, are you con dent you can of over 5m of overhead cost across the Group.
2017 was an excellent year for our carbonates portfolio, Build trust and respect in our communities especially Pepsi MAX.
We extended the range with the Being trusted and respected in our communities has been launch of MAX Ginger and this combined with MAX Cherry a core pillar of our strategy since 2013.
We set ourselves has helped bring more consumers into the brand.
2018 is a stretching 2020 goals, reflecting the issues we face as a difficult one to call with the arrival of the Soft Drinks Industry business and as a society more broadly.
This year we have Levy SDIL in April.
This is the single biggest event to impact taken the opportunity to review our sustainable business the category in memory and brings with it a level of uncertainty programme to ensure that it is focused on the issues that as to how consumers will react to different prices on-shelf matter most to our business and to our stakeholders.
The for higher and lower sugar products.
What we do know for result of this is a programme which focuses on three key areas certain is that we have a great range of brands and offerings where we believe we can make a real difference Healthier to offer consumers and we are working closely with our People: Healthier Communities: and Healthier Planet.
As part retail customers to minimise the impact.
of our review, we have decided that from this year we will embed our sustainable business report into our Annual Report, reflecting the importance we attach to growing Britvic Do you expect stills to be in growth next year?
in a way that builds trust and respect with our stakeholders.
Helping consumers make healthier choices has been a key Whilst Stills didnt meet our expectations this year, it is an plank of our sustainable business strategy since 2013.
For 2018 we have really exciting have continued to make progress in this area through our plans for GB stills that were confident will resonate with three-pronged approach: reformulation with no compromise consumers.
Robinsons is the nations most trusted soft on taste or quality, through which we have removed over drinks brand and were continuing to reinvigorate the brand, 20bn calories from GB diets on an annualised basis: innovation, and are resetting the squash category into good, better, where our pipeline is heavily weighted towards low no-sugar best through Fruit Creations, aimed at older families, and drinks which comprised of 68% of all projects across the a premium cordials range aimed at adults.
J2O has a new look and feel to link with Spritz more clearly, and has an improved liquid which falls under the Soft Drinks Industry Levy.
Fruit Shoot continues to evolve to target a wider range of occasions.
There will be more to come on Fruit Shoot which well talk to you about later in the year.
From left to right back row front row Hessel fide Jong Jean-Luc Tivolle How is the business capability programme Managing Director, International Managing Director, Britvic France progressing?
Clive Hooper Mathew Dunn Investment at our Leeds and London sites is nearing Chief Supply Chain Officer Chief Financial Officer completion with only the automation of the warehouse Paul Graham Simon Litherland at Leeds to be completed in the next couple of months.
Managing Director, GB Chief Executive Officer At these two sites we have generated both production Doug Frost Matthew Barwell and logistics benefits as the new lines run more efficiently Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Marketing Officer and on-site warehousing reduces road miles.
At our Rugby Kevin Donnelly Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto site we have installed three new can lines and groundworks Managing Director, Ireland Chief Executive Officer, Ebba Brazil have started for a new on-site warehouse and aseptic line.
In 2017, we have generated 3m of benefits ahead of our original estimate of 1m this year.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Group: and marketing responsibly through our Responsible Marketing Code, where we do not advertise high sugar products to under 16s and have led all advertising in relation to Pepsi with sugar-free MAX since 2005.
By next April, 72% of our total portfolio and 94% of our owned brands will be below or out of scope of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy in GB and 69% of our total portfolio and 79% of our owned brands in Ireland.
Helping communities to thrive through being a good 41% employer and good neighbour is the second plank of our of revenue is now generated sustainable business programme.
This year our Great Place outside of GB to Work Trust Index our measure of how our employees feel about working at Britvic rose for the fourth consecutive year to 75%.
We have focused on minimising our impact on the environment through efficiency measures and new technology as part of our investment in the GB supply chain.
Once fully commissioned our new lines will reduce our water and energy consumption, for example in our East London factory the new PET line runs at twice the capacity of the older lines and is 30% more energy efficient.
We also eliminated over 300 tonnes of plastic bottle packaging in GB through our supply chain While April 2018 brings investment programme in 2017.
Outlook uncertainty with the We have again demonstrated our ability to deliver both our short-term financial goals and our long-term strategic priorities introduction of the Soft Drinks in the face of a challenging external environment.
2018 brings the introduction of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy in GB and Industry Levy in GB and Ireland.
We recognise the significance of this event for the industry and the high level of uncertainty it will create in the Ireland, we are well placed short term.
However, we have prepared well and, with our great portfolio of brands and our strong marketing and to navigate it thanks to the innovation plans, we believe we are well placed to navigate it.
This, combined with our continued focus on revenue and strength and breadth of our cost management, including the benefits of the business capability programme, mean we feel confident of delivering brand portfolio and our further progress next year.
Further forward, as the business capability programme approaches completion, we will see exciting marketing and additional cost and cash flow improvements, creating a strong platform for an exciting future for Britvic.
This, combined with our continued Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer focus on revenue and cost 28 November 2017 management, means we remain confident of making further progress next year.
Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer Robinsons Fruit Creations In 2017 we launched Fruit Creations, containing twice the fruit of the core Robinsons range and more juicy and fruitier flavours created specifically for grown-up taste buds.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
