STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES RE VIEW 2017 has been a good year for Thomas Cook.
The actions we took on strategy inthe last 12 months have transformed the scale of the opportunity ahead for theGroup while at the same time deliveringstrong growth in demand, as more customers from across our marketschose our modern package andflight offer for their hard-earned weeksinthe sun.
The very deliberate decision that we made two years ago to put the customer back at the heart of our business is now bearing fruit.
Strong customer demand for our improved holiday offering helped increase revenues by 9 per cent in the year.
This combined with an improved performance in our German Airline, Condor, to deliver an underlying operating profit of 330 million, an 8 per cent increase year-on-year.
That we achieved this growth in a highly competitive environment shows how much more resilient we are as a business than even a few years ago.
Most importantly, we know that customers experience of their holidays with Thomas Cook is getting better all the time.
Our Net Promoter Score or NPS which is the primary indicator of customer satisfaction and the metric we look at before anything else, has increased by nine points over the last two years.
This reflects continued Ou r focus on the customer drives growth in every one of our significant everydecision that we take in the markets in 2017.
Our focus on the customer drives every business, from the hotels that we decision that we take in the business, from sellevery season and the service the hotels that we sell every season and the service promises that we make, through promises that we make, through to to the destinations we fly to.
But it also determines the big decisions that we take thedestinations we fly to.
But it about the business we want to be in the future.
It is perhaps there that we have made also determines the big decisions the most progress in the past 12 months.
that we take about the business we want to bein the future.
PETER FANKHAUSER CEO 10 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Another example of a successful TRANSFORMING OUR CARE partnershipis Thomas Cook China, our OPPORTUNITY FOR GROWTH Of course, the big strategic moves are only jointventure with Fosun, which is growing relevant if we continue to do all we can to The strategic alliance that we signed in fast in a rapidly expanding market, ensure that every customer has the best September with Expedia, outsourcing taking 20,000 bookings in its first year experience on holiday with Thomas Cook.
ourcity and domestic hotels business of operations.
Our focus on developing It is here where I believe that we have the andusing Expedia technology, will strong partnerships with big technologybiggest opportunity to differentiate our transformthe way in which we work.
led players in the Chinese market, like holidays from the competition in the care By attracting one of the best operators Alibaba, gives us access to a big customer and the reassurance that we provide.
inthe travel industry, we will be able to base, while our tailored holiday offering offer a much greater choice to customers, In the last year, we have extended our means we can differentiate ourselves in at lower cost and complexity to us.
This, 24-Hour Hotel Satisfaction Promise to more acompetitive environment.
inturn, will allow us to focus on holidays than 2,000 hotels, giving 80% of customers toour own-brand and selected partner Meanwhile, the launch of Thomas Cook who book a sun & beach holiday with hotels in sun & beach destinations where Money builds on our long heritage in Thomas Cook the reassurance that if a hotel we know we can really set ourselves financial services to offer customers across is not as we described it, we will sort out apartfrom the competition.
our source markets new and simpler ways the issue or offer to move the customer to plan, save, borrow and spend their to another hotel of the same standard Our partnership with LMEY reinforces holidaymoney, all supported byinnovative, within 24 hours.
This represented a bold thatstrategy, paving the way for the easy-to-use technology.
move when we introduced it for summer creation of a joint hotel investment 2016, one which is now paying off with platformwhich will enable us to superEach of these developments represent customer satisfaction on average 12 points charge our portfolio of own-brand an important step forward in delivering higher in those hotels with the 24-Hour hotelsand resorts.
our strategy for profitable growth.
Hotel Satisfaction Promise than the rest Taken together, they transform the This will give customers an even greater ofthe portfolio.
opportunity ahead for the Group.
choice of high-quality hotels to suit We continue to innovate to broaden our their needs, hotels that are unique to appeal and increase customers ability Thomas Cook, and achieve higher levels to personalise their holiday with the of customersatisfaction and earn better launch ofa Choose Your Room option.
Available in 300 of our core hotels for summer 2018, this is another industry first for a traditional tour operating business and shows how we are evolving to capture greater opportunities.
Another area where we have made big changes is in the way in which we talk about risk to customers.
We operate in a market where disruption, whether from natural disaster, political changes or terror attacks, can affect many of our customers and our operations.
We are not a security company but we know that what we can do is to be as transparent as possible about potential risks whether thats through customer-friendly blogs or clear links to the latest government advice so that the customer can make up their own mind about whether to travel.
I am proud of how far we have come.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We have also taken a leading role in In this context, we continue to reshape our AIRLINE bringingtheindustry together on the issue retail store network to ensure we are wellAnother element of our holiday offering where of health and safety.
In September, the Safer positioned to meet the changing customer I feel optimistic is our airline.
Over the last four Tourism Foundation, the independent charity we needs.
In the UK, the Co-operatives exit from years, and in a very competitive market, weve set up with Sharon Wood, the mother of Christi our retail joint venture has enabled us to transformed it from four essentially separate and Bobby Shepherd, launched a pledge which take full control of our store portfolio, and airlines whose primary task was to transport articulates a new approach to customer health in Germany, weve signed 92 new agency our tour operator customers, to one airline and safety within the industry.
This has already agreements to increase the proportion of group with an increasingly successful seatbeen signed by seven major travel companies direct sales.
only business, particularly on long-haul routes, in a move that we believe will promote greater and its own distribution channels.
In doing so, collaboration to achieve practical change for OWN-BRAND HOTELS AND we have created Europes third-largest airline thebenefit of all customers.
RESORTS AND SELECTED to sun & beach destinations which competes wing-to-wing with the low-cost carriers, PARTNER HOTELS In our UK business, we have faced a specific andEuropes sixth-largest long-haul carrier issue this year related to a dramatic surge in Of course, the other area where we can with an expanding range of destinations illness compensation claims, many of which genuinely differentiate ourselves is in the andacompelling customer offer.
we believe to be fraudulent.
Our presence in holidays we offer and, most importantly, our destination through our resort teams and our ability to provide customers with holidays We have now formalised the work Management rigorous focus on hotel quality means we are that are unique to Thomas Cook.
To this end, has undertaken to create one Group airline, continually improving standards and can take we have gradually been streamlining our byseparating its reporting and legal structure.
care of those who fall ill, but we must also portfolio of hotels to focus the majority of our This is the logical next step which reflects the protect our customers from dishonest illness business on 3,000 properties where we know way we think about the airline business within claims which threaten the price and availability we can have a higher degree of influence the Group: from our airline being the primary of all-inclusive holidays.
We have made good over the quality and service standards.
transport for the tour operator to becoming progress highlighting these false claims in a leisure airline in its own right, with its own Our own-brand hotels and resorts are central the courts, in the media and to government, commercial relationships, distribution channels to the success of this strategy.
These enable which we hope will lead to substantive and growth targets while sharing the Groups us to provide customers with a consistent changes in legislation, including the way absolute focus on giving our customers the and high-quality holiday, whatever their needs, the claims industry is regulated, in time for best possible experience of Thomas Cook.
delivering higher satisfaction scores and summer next year.
higher margins than the portfolio average.
PARTNERSHIPS We know that our approach to care needs also With the arrival this year of Ingo Burmester, to encompass the wider environment in which We are very clear in our strategy for profitable who ran the successful Robinson brand for we operate, at home and abroad.
To this end, growth that we will focus our attention and TUI, we are now building a hotel management this year we introduced a new animal welfare resources on a number of key areas where company inside Thomas Cook under his policy, becoming the first major travel company we can genuinely be different from the leadership, with the aim of growing the size to commit to remove from sale any animal competition.
This approach is complemented ofthe portfolio and strengthening our brands.
attraction that is found not to be fully compliant by a series of partnerships which enable us to We made further progress in the year with with the ABTA Global Welfare Guidance for streamline our operations, while also tapping 11new openings in summer 2017, including Animals in Tourism.
This is a bold step which into opportunities for growth.
our second Casa Cook in Kos and a new demonstrates our commitment to change.
The strategic alliance with Expedia agreed at Sunwing Ocean Beach Club in Cyprus.
the end of this year to outsource our city and We also added a seventh brand to the CONTACT domestic hotel business, while harnessing their portfolio in the form of Aldiana, the premium technology for our hotel-only offering, is the Our customer focus also extends to club-based activity format, through an most significant of those partnerships agreed developing direct contact with customers acquisition of a 42 per cent stake in the during the year.
This, combined with the deal in order to strengthen our relationships business as part of a wider partnership we agreed in 2016 to outsource the sun & beach and provide more personalised services.
At the same time, hotels which sit outside of our core portfolio This starts with providing rich, inspirational we have continued to rigorously manage to Webjet, completes our complementary hotel content on our websites and this year weve the portfolio for quality, removing hotels strategy and positions us for growth in this area added over 110,000 images and 1,200 room where they dont meet our standards.
I feel of the business at the lowest possible cost.
plans to better engage our customers.
very optimistic about the future growth prospects for this part of our business in However, we also made good progress in Thomas The investment weve made in our websites the coming year as we work to identify Cook China, a joint venture with Fosun launched has helped grow our online bookings with newproperties and build up our pipeline.
A full-service travel company, in a the strongest growth in the UK, up 27 per fast-expanding market, our China business booked cent in 2017.
Across the Group, we now 20,000 customers in its first year.
Our ambition achieve 46 per cent of all sales via the web, in2018 is to grow that number tenfold.
up three percentage points on last year.
12 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Looking across the Group, I see real OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES CONCLUSION momentum behind our strategy for The strategy we are executing sets out a In summary, Thomas Cook has made profitable growth.
The actions we have clear path to profitable growth.
But it also significant progress in 2017.
We operate in an taken in the last 12 months accelerate the results in a business which is much simpler industry that is constantly changing, impacted transformation of Thomas Cook into a truly with a leaner organisational structure.
Were by events that are often unpredictable and modern, streamlined travel company with working to remove duplication from across regularly beyond our control.
The companies the customer at the heart of everything that the business and to align processes to fit that succeed are those that are operationally we do for the benefit of our customers, the new shape of Thomas Cook.
flexible and which can anticipate shifts in our people and our Shareholders.
In this respect, the new strategic alliance with Expedia, and the execution of the The fact that we have successfully managed PETER FANKHAUSER Webjet agreement, effectively outsourcing through a competitive environment while CEO our complementary business, is a catalyst at the same time taking big decisions that for the next stage in the transformation of will strengthen our position for the future is 21 November 2017 the business.
I believe it will enable us to testament to the hard work and engagement realise significant cost savings and remove of our 22,000 people around the globe.
They are further layers of complexity in our systems the ones that make this company different, and processes.
focusing on every detail to make our customers experience of our holidays even better.
THE SAFER TOURISM FOUNDATIONPLEDGE We are fully committed to the aim of the Safer Tourism Foundation to improve the health and safety of tourists when they are on holiday We will do all we reasonably can to provide a safeand healthy environment for our customers when they go on holiday with us We will use our influence on our partners overseas to improve health and safety standards for our customers We will engage with our customers throughout their customer journey to ensure they have access to the information they need to help keep themselves and their families safe and well We will encourage our customers to be aware of the health and safety risks that they may face on holiday and how they can reduce the risks to themselves We will act promptly when customers raise genuine health and safety concerns, to reduce therisks to them and to future travellers We will share our expertise and anonymised data with other organisations that want to work with us to improve the health and safety of tourists THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
