Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives review Our strategy is delivering Helen Gordon strong results Chief Executive Dear shareholders, Strategic priority 2: simplify and focus It is my second year at Grainger, and I am pleased to report In parallel with this growth, we have also delivered on our strong performance of your Company, and good progress promise to improve Graingers efficiency and reduce operating on our strategy.
Our overheads are 25% lower than in 2015 and we have significantly reduced our cost of debt, which now stands at 3.4%.
We continue to grow rents, simplify and focus the business to We have reduced the cost of running our properties, with gross reposition it for the future, and build on our significant 105-year to net leakage reduced to 26%.
We have also substantially experience in the UK residential market.
enhanced our capital structure, processes, governance and control environment, and we have repositioned Grainger to Less than two years ago, we set out a plan to refocus the support our strategy for growth.
Company on investment in the UK private rented sector, and to grow significantly by investing 850m into the UK PRS by 2020.
Strategic priority 3: build on our experience We continue to build on our reputation as a leading residential Our vision for the business is simple to be the UKs best PRS landlord in the UK and remain focused on providing great rental landlord and deliver attractive total returns for our shareholders.
homes and continually improving our customer service.
We are enhancing the service we can provide our customers through Strategic priority 1: grow rents operational improvements and through investing in technology.
We have secured more than 75% of our targeted investment, Our commitment to the health and safety of our customers and and we anticipate superior returns of typically between 6.5% employees remains central to what we do.
and 8% gross yields from our investments.
When we have deployed the 850m and our investments are fully stabilised, we expect net rental income to be more than double what it was in 2015.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued Highlights Adjusted earnings Rental growth like-for-like EPRA NNNAV Overheads 74.4m 3.8% 303pps 27.2m 40% FY16: 53.1m -30bps FY16: 4.1% 5.6% FY16: 287pps -14% FY16: 31.8m Net rental income Cost of debt at period end Profit before tax Total return ROSE 40.4m 3.4% 86.3m 7.3% 8% FY16: 37.4m -50bps FY16: 3.9% 2% FY16: 84.2m -330bps FY16: 10.6% Definitions and additional information relating to all KPIs are shown on pages 22 and 23.
Over the year, the performance in our net rental income was Delivering results supported by a reduction in our property operating costs Strong financial performance gross to net leakage from 28% to 26%.
Meanwhile, we As a result of the significant changes we have implemented successfully increased the length of stay of our customers from within the business over the last two years, Im pleased to report less than 18 months to over 2 years, reducing void costs whilst that the financial performance of the Company is strong.
also capturing strong rental growth.
Adjusted earnings increased by 40% in the year to 74.4m.
Recognition as a market leader We have grown net rental income by 8% to 40.4m, delivered We were proud to be acknowledged for our position as the strong sales performance from our regulated tenancy portfolio industrys leading PRS landlord, asset manager and developer.
and created enhanced profits from development activity.
In We are also grateful to our peers for awarding us Property addition, we have made great strides in improving our capital Weeks Property Company of the Year, a highly competitive structure with a cost of debt of 3.4% at the period end.
The total and cross-sector award.
Our GRIP REIT joint venture with APG return for the year was 7.3%, a strong result, supported by an was recognised as a Sector Leader by the Global Real Estate enhanced income return and a lower level of capital growth than Sustainability Benchmark.
Last financial year also benefited from the profitable disposals of our non-core businesses FY16: 10.6%.
Our differentiated approach We refined our operating model during the year.
Our success I am pleased to report an 8% increase in our total dividend to is based on our ability to originate, invest and operate our 4.86p per share FY16: 4.50p per share, in line with our policy investments fully in-house, and we have organised the business to deliver sustainable, income backed growth and distribute 50% to provide a strong focus on each area.
See the Financial review on pages 24 to 28.
This enables us to generate superior returns through our ability Superior operational performance to collaborate internally across all these areas.
In this regard, Underpinning our financial performance is the progress we we strongly believe that the whole is greater than the sum have made on improving the management of our portfolio of its parts.
The operational team, for example, works with our and our increased focus on customer service.
To support this development team in the design of our new PRS developments, crucial aspect of the business, we recruited John Kenny as and with the investment team to appraise every opportunity we Chief Operating Officer.
From his previous role operating consider.
This collaborative and informed approach produces approximately 25k student beds, John brings a wealth of enhanced returns and reduces risks.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Kew Bridge Court, Kew Preparing the business for the exciting growth Customer focus in new PRS homes We continue to look at ways we can improve our service to As our pipeline of new PRS homes grows, we are investing to customers.
Our annual customer survey and the regular support future growth.
We examined every process within the feedback we collect provide us with a clear set of priorities business to find more efficient ways of working, and through against which to measure our service and focus our attention.
a great team effort and a disciplined focus on continuous In our portfolio of regulated properties, we recognise that many improvement we have laid excellent foundations for the future.
of our residents are older.
We are working with Age UK London Last year, we completed a full strategic review of the business, to help us understand how we can better support our older covering every portfolio and its potential for growth.
We have also supported the Grainger team with continue to regularly review all of the assets within our portfolio technology, enabling them to work remotely and get closer and measure their returns potential.
This has led to a series of to our regulated tenancy customers.
profitable disposals, enhancing our sales revenues.
The Board We have made a number of improvements in the way we support and the whole Grainger team are committed to this disciplined our PRS customers and we undertook a survey to understand and continual approach to evaluating assets.
what else we could improve upon and to better understand our Securing a high-quality pipeline customers preferences in the PRS.
The survey identified that We strengthened our acquisition team during the year by there is scope to improve on our responsiveness and reduce investing in our in-house research capability and improved our the time to resolve maintenance requests.
To this end, we are investment process to ensure it is both robust and efficient.
investing in technology solutions and our people.
This is an The result is a team focused on identifying opportunities with important area for the Grainger team, and one our investment the right characteristics for growth, in the right locations, and we in technology will support.
have successfully secured a number of high-quality investments.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued Our focus today remains on fully securing our pipeline of Attracting and retaining the best talent high-quality rental homes that will produce attractive and Despite the change that has taken place over the past two years, enduring returns.
I am proud to say that the Grainger team remains as enthusiastic as ever.
The talent within the organisation is unrivalled, we are I would like to thank the Grainger team for their continued hard committed to attracting and retaining the best talent and we work and dedication to achieving such a great performance this have a rigorous framework for doing so.
Our Property Director, Nick Jopling, leaves Grainger at the encouraging a positive working culture with a focus on customer end of 2017.
I would like to thank Nick for his contribution to service and continuous improvement.
the business over the last seven years, and particularly for the support he has given me over the last two years.
I would like Our employee engagement survey highlighted the high levels to thank our previous Chairman Baroness Margaret Ford for her of pride that employees have in Grainger.
Levels of staff unwavering support of the executive team and our new strategy.
engagement are high, with 87.5% of staff responding to the I would also like to thank the Board and our shareholders for their survey.
The survey also identified areas where we can do more ongoing support.
to support and develop our staff including wellbeing and giving something back, and we are planning a series of The future for Grainger is exciting.
We are growing a business initiatives for 2018. with great long-term value, and we are delivering a portfolio of good-quality homes for rent which our employees and Making a positive impact shareholders can be proud of.
To help secure a long and successful future for Grainger, we believe it is important that we make a positive impact, both on those around us and the environment.
We have therefore developed a new corporate social responsibility and sustainability Helen Gordon strategy which has three focus areas: treating people positively: Chief Executive creating desirable, healthy homes: and securing our future 30 November 2017 see pages 29 to 35.
A positive market backdrop The fundamental market drivers for the UK PRS remain positive and demand for good-quality rental homes far outstrips supply.
Growth in demand is projected to continue.
While political uncertainty and Brexit are having an impact on real estate generally, the UK PRS is proving resilient.
The legislative environment across the UK and in London supports growth in the UK PRS, particularly through build-to-rent and institutional investment.
Looking ahead Through implementation of Graingers strategy and a focus on creating great homes for rent, the business has been transformed.
The work we have done to dramatically improve our cost base and invest in a pipeline of quality assets positions us for strong growth.
Much work remains, however, and we intend to maintain our rigour and pace.
Our longer-term vision for the business goes beyond our 850m investment plan, and we have redesigned the business to support further growth, both financially and operationally.
We are looking to introduce technology solutions to further improve our operations, generate enhanced returns and continue to improve our customer service.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information A year of achievements Awards won FY17 timeline of activity October 2016 October 2016 November 2016 Acquisition of Technology Acquisition of Yorkshire Post, Leeds Effectiveness Finzels Reach, Bristol subject to planning Review Forward funding, Forward funding, 46m, c. 200 homes October 2016 November 2016 40m, c. 250 homes Planning consent Refinanced achieved for Apex 100m debt facility, House, London reducing our cost of Direct development, debt by 23bps 163 homes February 2017 April 2017 May 2017 Baroness Margaret John Kenny joins as Ford retires from the Chief Operating February 2017 Board as Chairman Property Company Officer of the Year March 2017 The UK Government Mark Clare joins the publishes Housing White Construction Board as Chairman Paper, which supports begins at Finzels institutional investment PRS Developer Reach, Bristol in the UK PRS Justin Read joins of the Year the Board Yorkshire Post, Leeds receives planning consent May 2017 July 2017 August 2017 Extended 450m Completion of the acquisition Conditional funding by two years, of Pontoon Dock, London acquisition of Gore May 2017 with a further two-year in joint venture with the Street, Manchester extension option Local Pensions Partnership JV, Forward funding, forward funding, 236 homes August 2017 80m, 375 homes Completion of a Asset Manager GRIP REIT joint detailedoperational of the Year venture acquires process review Milton Keynes scheme Forward Landlord funding, 30.5m, of the Year 139 homes Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
