STRATEGIC REPORT STATEMENTS Chief Executives Review Building larger, broader-based businesses Bruce Thompson, Chief Executive Officer delivers a return in excess of 20% Thisyear, underlying revenue growth, The Groups strategy, pre-tax on total capital invested and after adjusting for currency movements consistently applied, delivers steadily increasing shareholder value.
and acquisitions, has been a robust 7% with the growth rate strengthening in strong growth in earnings Business model and KPIs the second half of the year.
Over five Stable and resilient GDP plus underlying years, the average underlying revenue and shareholder value.
revenue growth is achieved through growth has been 5% p. a. which meets our focus on essential products and the Groups target of GDP plus growth.
services funded by customers operating rather than capital budgets and supplied Adjusted operating margins improved Group strategy across a range of specialised industry this year by 10bps to 17.3% of revenue, The Groups compounding strategy segments.
By supplying essential as transactional currency pressures is designed to generate strong growth solutions, not just products, we build eased during the year in the Healthcare in earnings and shareholder value strong long term relationships with our businesses and improved operating over the business cycle, while building customers and suppliers, which support leverage with tight control of operating larger, broader-based businesses sustainable and attractive margins.
costs has offset other pressures on in the three Group Sectors of Life Finally, we encourage an entrepreneurial gross margins.
Over five years the Sciences, Seals and Controls.
culture in our businesses through our average adjusted operating margin decentralised management structure.
18% against the Groups The businesses target stable GDP These essential values ensure that medium term target of 1819%.
plus underlying revenue growth over decisions are made close to the customer the business cycle with sustainable and that the businesses are agile and The agility and responsiveness of the attractive margins and then convert responsive to changes in the market organisation is more difficult to measure the profit into strong free cash flow by and the competitive environment.
directly, but non-financial KPIs can tightly managing working capital and give an indication of the organisational focused capital investments.
The free The key performance indicators KPIs health.
The number of working days cash flow generated then funds healthy we use to measure the success of the lost to sickness has consistently been growing dividends and selective value business model relate to recurring only ca.
1% a year and over the last five enhancing acquisitions which accelerate income and stable underlying revenue years, the average length of service for all growth in revenues and profit to doublegrowth, sustainable and attractive employees has been ca.
The strategy consistently margins and organisational health.
years for the senior management cadre.
06 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Our Year in Review Growth strategy and KPIs Financial performance In Seals, underlying revenues Overall growth is accelerated from In 2017, the Group delivered strong increased by 4% after adjusting underlying GDP plus levels to the double-digit growth in revenue and for currency movements and the corporate target of double-digit growth, earnings with robust underlying acquisitions of PSP and Edco.
In through carefully selected, value growth, a modest net contribution NorthAmerica, the improving trend in enhancing acquisitions which fit the from acquisitions and further industrial activity seen in the second business model and offer entry into benefiting from the strong tailwind quarter, following the US election, new but related strategic markets.
from the depreciation in UK sterling.
strengthened further as the year progressed.
In the International Seals Acquisitions are not made just to add The Groups reported revenues businesses, strong growth in the UK revenue and profit, but rather to bring increased by 18%, with currency and Scandinavia was offset by more into the Group successful businesses movements increasing revenues by challenging market conditions in which have growth potential, capable 9% and acquisitions contributing a Switzerland, Russia and Australia.
management and a good track record of further 2% to the revenue growth, profitable growth and cash generation.
net of a small prior year disposal.
In Controls, underlying revenues As part of our Acquire, Build, Grow On an underlying basis, after increased by 14% after adjusting for strategy, we invest in the businesses adjusting for acquisitions and for currency movements and the prior post-acquisition to build a firm foundation currency effects on translation, year acquisitions of Cablecraft and to allow them to move to a new level of Group revenues increased by 7%.
The Specialty Fasteners growth and improve operating margins.
business increased revenues strongly, These acquisitions form a critical part Group adjusted operating margins driven principally by a ramp-up in of our Sector growth strategies and are improved by 10bps to 17.3%, demand from customers in the Civil designed to generate a pre-tax return compared with 17.2% in the prior full Aerospace sector.
The Interconnect on investment of at least 20% and year and the first half of the current and Fluid Controls businesses also hence support our Group objectives year.
Management gross margins have delivered good growth benefiting from for return on total investment.
reduced overall by 60bps with margin increased project work and targeted pressures in several businesses from a investment in sales resources.
Again we measure the success of the combination of the impact on product growth strategy with KPIs, the first of costs from currency movements and Acquisitions and disposals which is acquisition spend.
To achieve the increases in other margin support Over the last three years, a total Groups objective of strong double-digit costs.
These pressures have been of ca.
90m has been invested in growth, acquisition spend of at least 30m partly mitigated by the stronger acquisitions which contributed ca.
p. a. is targeted, though year on year spend gross margins in recent acquisitions 16% of 2017 Group revenues.
will vary with the acquisition environment.
and transactional currency pressures This year, the Group invested ca.
20m in the Healthcare businesses have During 2017, total acquisition spend in acquisitions, bringing the total over eased during the year.
The acquisitions costs as a percentage of revenue was invested in the acquisition of completed over the last three years have have reduced by 70bps with improved Abacus, a long established supplier contributed ca.
operating leverage from the of diagnostics instrumentation and increase in revenues and generally consumables to the Pathology and Strong cash flow funds our growth tight control of operating costs.
Life Sciences sectors in Australia and strategy and supports healthy, growing New Zealand.
Abacus adds critical dividends and tight management of Working capital as a percentage of mass to our existing Healthcare working capital maximises the conversion revenue was managed down through businesses in the region and opens of profit to cash flow.
This year, working the year to 15.0%, although the up new growth opportunities.
capital has been managed down to Groups free cash flow reduced by a record low of 15.0% of revenue, 6% to 55.7m, reflecting the absence In addition, two smaller bolt-on generating free cash flow of 55.7m of prior year proceeds from one-off acquisitions were completed in the and representing a conversion rate of property sales and the divestment Seals Sector during the year PSP 99% of adjusted post tax earnings.
Over of the Medivators business.
in the US and Edco in the UK.
After five years, the average working capital the year end, a small acquisition was to revenue ratio has been 1617% and Sector performance completed in the Controls Sector average free cash flow has been 45m p. a.
In Life Sciences, underlying revenues ofCoast Fabrication Inc. Coast, with an average conversion ratio of 98%.
increased by 4% after adjusting a US specialty fastener distributor.
for currency movements, the The Groups return on total investment acquisition of Abacus and the prior measure is the pre-tax return on adjusted year disposal of the Medivators trading capital employed, excluding business.
The Healthcare businesses net cash, but including all goodwill and benefited from stronger capital acquired intangible assets ROATCE.
revenues as new technology was This is used to measure the overall introduced and delayed projects performance of the Group and very were reactivated in the laboratory importantly, our success in creating value diagnostic sector.
The Environmental for shareholders through our acquisition businesses delivered steady growth in programme.
Over the last five years, instrumentation sales and increasing ROATCE has comfortably exceeded the service contract revenues.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 07 STRATEGIC REPORT STATEMENTS Chief Executives Review continued Building management strength Essential values and culture between the businesses and shared The Executive Management Group We encourage an entrepreneurial back office functions.
There are EMG was established in 2016, culture across our businesses, through also best practices which can be comprising the Executive Directors adecentralised management structure.
shared within the clusters in areas along with the executive managers who such as IT and digital capabilities.
are responsible for the major business In specialised distribution businesses clusters and key Group functions.
The it is essential that decisions are made We have therefore introduced small EMG members are a combination of close to the customer and that the senior teams to manage the business internally developed managers and businesses are agile and responsive to clusters in each Sector, while being experienced senior managers who changes in the market and competitive careful not to allow the build-up of have been recruited externally.
The success of the heavy divisional structures with their Group is therefore built upon strong, associated costs and bureaucracy.
The EMG provides the opportunity for its self-standing management teams This ensures that we gain the members to broaden their perspective in the operating businesses who are benefits of scale while retaining of the Groups activities in order to committed to and rewarded according agility in the operating businesses.
reinforce the key elements of the Groups to the success of their businesses.
culture and to identify best practices These senior management teams which are transferable across the Group.
This culture is very attractive to are responsible for maximising the The EMG meets quarterly through a managers who join the Group in potential of their business clusters and combination of full group meetings acquired businesses and who are also for identifying and progressing in London and sub-group meetings used to a similar culture in their acquisition opportunities.
held in the major business locations.
Executive Management Group The EMG provides the senior Managing business clusters As the Group grows larger and management bench strength to We also recognise that there are becomes more broadly spread both manage a growing and broadly spread significant synergy benefits which geographically and operationally, it Group while laying the groundwork for can be achieved through managing is important that we have in place a succession in key executive positions.
Typically strong and broad based executive these synergies come in the form management team to drive the next of cross-selling and joint purchasing stage of the Groups growth strategy.
08 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Capital Markets Day The first objective was achieved in In February 2017, the Group hosted a an introductory presentation and Capital Markets Day CMD in London, animation video which summarised the exactly five years to the day after the development of the Group over the five previous CMD held in February 2012. years, with strong double-digit growth in adjusted EPS, TSR and dividends and There were four key objectives for an increase in market capitalisation theday: from ca.
Five-year track record to show the The other three objectives were Groups progress over the last five achieved in break-out sessions for each years in executing its strategy and of the three Sectors, where the EMG delivering strong growth in earnings members presented the key features and shareholder value.
and resilient characteristics of their businesses and demonstrated key 2.
Resilience and sustainable margins products.
They also described the key to demonstrate the resilience of the elements of competitive advantage Groups businesses and the high and barriers to entry which support barriers to entry which protect the the attractive margins.
Finally, they Groups stable and attractive margins.
detailed the substantial runway for growth in each business in terms of 3.
Runway for growth to give new product and market opportunities, confidence in the substantial further geographic expansion and acquisitions.
runway for growth over the next five years, through a combination of stable underlying growth and value enhancing acquisitions.
Senior management bench strength to introduce the strong and experienced senior management team which is in place to drive the next phase of the Groups development.
The various presentations and video material delivered at the CMD are on the Diploma PLC website in the Investors section under the heading Diploma PLC Investor Day 2017.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 09
