Chief Executives review Building momentum easyJet delivered a robust performance in the 2017 financial year.
During the period the airline continued to make good progress in its purposeful growth strategy, making disciplined investments to maintain and grow its market-leading positions in Europes primary, slot-constrained airports.
easyJets focused capacity growth of 8.5%, includes a number of time-sensitive opportunities in slot-constrained airports such as Amsterdam, which is now full.
Over seven million more passengers flew with easyJet this year, representing an increase of 9.7%, at historically high load factors of 92.6%.
Thisreflects the strength of easyJets network and customerproposition.
The airlines disciplined strategy will enable it to be a structuralwinner within its chosen markets in the European short-haul market.
CAROLYN MCCALL DBE Total revenue increased by 8.1% to 5,047 million Chief Executive 2016: 4,669million.
Revenue per seat is broadly flat at 58.23 down 4.5% at 1 constant currency, driven by: Our planned approach of The persisting low fuel price environment, resulting in high achieving number one or levels of market capacity growth 7.4% growth in easyJets markets.
two positions at Europes An aggressive pricing environment which saw net ticket leading airports, friendly revenue per seat fall by 7.8% at constant currency.
2 Ancillary revenue which grew by 17.8% to 986 million as and efficient customer high load factors and consumer-focused initiatives helped to offset ticket pricing pressures.
service and a continuous Within this, non-seat revenue increased by 9.3% to focus on sustainable cost 89 million, supported by strong inflight sales of easyJets enhanced product offering.
control has put easyJet at easyJets focus on rigorous cost control continues to deliver a strategic advantage excellent results and supported the investment in operational resilience.
Headline cost per seat increased by 2.4% to during a period when there 53.52driven by an adverse headline foreign exchange impact of 308 million 3.56 per seat andthe costs of disruption, have been bankruptcies which remains a major industry challenge.
At constant currency the headline cost per seat decreased by 4.4% as and some airlines have easyJet continued to benefit from its hedged fuel position.
overall cost performance isdriven by: Fuel cost reduction of 19.2% per seat at constant currency.
Lean initiatives in: airports and ground handling, leveraging easyJets scale across the network: 5.0bn engineering and maintenance savings in the supplier REVENUE 2016: 4.7BN base: and reduced navigation charges.
Up-gauging of fleet with the delivery of an additional 21 186-seat A320 and two A320neo aircraft and retrofitting of 49 existing 180-seat A320s to 186-seats.
4.4% This helped to offset: HEADLINE COST PER SEAT IMPROVEMENT FROM THE2016 FINANCIAL YEAR, RESTATED A continued increase in the combined impact on cost from AT CONSTANT CURRENCY disruption of EU 261 claims and an increasingly congested European aviation infrastructure.
1 Constant currency is calculated by comparing the 2017 financial year performance translated at the 2016 financial year effective exchange rate to the 2016 financial year reported performance, excluding foreign exchange gains and losses on balance sheet revaluations 2 Ancillary revenue includes revenue from the provision of checked baggage, allocated seating and change fees, and also includes non-seat revenue which arises from commissions earned from services sold on behalf of partners and inflight sales.
10 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017
