Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review experience through operational improvements and Whether it is prototyping new have maintained excellent progress on the delivery technologies, opening our first of our plan to provide a truly omni-channel model consumer innovation lab, Studio B, for customers.
As part of our digital journey, over or collaborating with Fintech partners the past year we have introduced straight-through online account opening, Apple and Android Pay, as with the development of our new well as piloting an innovative new online SME lending small business e-lending solution, facility through one of our Fintech partnerships.
we are building a bank focused on In addition, our migration of our Clydesdale and Yorkshire Bank accounts to our digital platform, iB, is a differentiated customer experience well advanced and we expect all personal customers that will put customers more in to begin migrating to iB on the web by the end of control of their money.
2017 with SME customers to begin migration onto iB, both mobile and web, in 2018.
I am delighted to report that we have maintained momentum in delivering our strategic priorities and Like other banks and high street retailers we are commitments and, as a result, we are delivering seeing a shift in the way customers choose to do significantly improved financial performance, have business with us and more often customers are recorded our first statutory profit in over five years using telephone, internet and mobile channels to and are recommending an inaugural dividend to do day-to-day banking.
As a result, the number of shareholders.
transactions which take place in branches is falling, with customers increasingly using a branch only As the only truly full-service challenger bank of when they want to speak with us about a significant scale across both Retail and SME in the UK market, life event.
We are constantly reviewing our branch we have delivered ahead of market growth in both footprint and while a number of branches were mortgages and SME lending and we remain on track closed this year, we opened new flagship branches to deliver our commitment to provide up to 6bn in Edinburgh and Birmingham as part of a broader of lending to SMEs by the end of 2019. multiyear strategy to expand our presence in key Our results show improved underlying profit, northern cities.
sustainable loan growth, a stable margin and In April, we opened our innovation lab, Studio B, improved returns all achieved in a highly in London.
Unlike anything else on the high street, competitive market and a continuing low growth, Studio B enables us to collaborate directly with low interest rate environment.
Our cost efficiency customers and other interested parties on the programme is also ahead of plan, with underlying design of future banking products and services, then operating costs coming in at 675m, down 7% year showcase and test our best ideas with colleagues, on year.
We have also continued to work through customers and members of the public all within our legacy conduct issues and our statutory profit a fully functioning customer banking centre.
While includes the impact of a conduct charge of 58m in September we expanded our UK presence into primarily due to historical payment protection Birmingham with the opening of a next generation insurance PPI mis-selling.
B store which, as well as being a fully operational CYBG is perfectly placed to disrupt the market branch, is also a showcase for customers to we have the size and full-service Retail and SME experience our digital innovations.
capabilities that no other UK challenger bank can Over the next 12 months I am confident we have offer, yet we are smaller and more agile than the both the opportunity and the ability to create a complex structures of the big five UK banks.
differentiated customer experience that positions us We are well capitalised, have a high-quality loan as a progressive, forward-looking organisation able to book and prudent risk appetite, along with powerful, thrive today, tomorrow and in the future, delivering established local brands.
These have now been on commitments to our customers, our people and joined by an innovative brand in B, which has our shareholders.
Finally, I am very grateful to the broadened our customer demographic and reach Chairman, the Board and our colleagues for their outside of our core regions.
We have over 100,000 backing and insight as we continue on our journey.
B customers since launch in 2016 and we were proud to receive the FStech Award 2017 for Digital Launch of the Year.
The pace and scale of transformation across our business has been considerable in 2017.
We have kept David Duffy up our relentless focus on enhancing our customers Chief Executive Officer CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Strategic report Highlights of the year JANUARY October November December January February March April May June July August September 8 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information October November December January February March April May June July August September OUR FIRST AGM AS A LISTED BUSINESS Our Board and members of our Executive Leadership Team travelled to Australia in January for our first AGM as a listed business.
We fully recognise that a significant proportion of our shareholders are not based in the UK and we believe its important that we are able to speak to people face to face about CYBG and our strategy for growing the business.
The decision to host the AGM in Melbourne was warmly received and well attended we welcomed more than 250 people to the event and an even wider audience joined via a live webcast.
The overall tone of the event was positive, reflecting on the solid progress we have made in our landmark first year.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9
