In conversation with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Invested in the future Stephen Kelly Steve Hare Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer @SKellyCEO @SHareCFO 16 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements What have been your highlights both in FY17 and throughout the transformation?
SK: Well the first thing to say is weve achieved 6.6% organic revenue growth and a 28.0% organic operating margin in FY17.
In fact, weve consistently exceeded 6% revenue growth and27% margins for the past three years whilstcarrying out a significant .
In terms of our Customer for Life strategy, thecontinued shift to a subscription model has been a highlight in the year.
78% of our revenue is now recurring and software subscription revenue now represents 37% oftotal revenue, a striking improvement from22% three years ago.
In FY17 the focus has been on moving our existing customers to the cloud-enabled versions of Sage 50 and Sage 200, which are protecting and enhancing the valuein our installed base.
These solutions provide the flexibility of the cloud, combined with the functionality of desktop.
This has allowed us to platform services including AI and the Pegg reduce the G&A expense as a proportion of bot framework.
There is no other consistent The results here have been very encouraging, revenue from over 17% in FY16 to under 14% global competitor who offers this breadth of withcloud-enabled revenue rising by 140% in this year, down from 19% three years ago.
cloud solutions across our market segments the year to 133m, with over 170,000 customers and the Golden Triangle.
It also accelerates the now on a .
Weve also committed that this will be the shift away fromhigh-cost, hard to implement, lastyear of transformational non-recurring And this commitment to the installed base has monolithic ERP systems and positions Sage also resulted in an 22 point increase in exceptional costs.
We will continue to identify Business Cloud as compelling for new and cost savings but this financial discipline is now NPSfrom three yearsagoto 25 as at Q4 17, our existing customers, allowing them to join the highest rate throughout the transformation.
platform andgrow at any stage of their We talk about customer obsession in the businessjourney.
SK: The work that we have carried out corridors of Sage and we are committed to throughout the transformation is already SH: For me FY18 means we are starting on building on this NPS trend.
starting to show signs of progress, especially in thepath towards double digit revenue growth our mid-size regions that have been more agile FY17 has also been the year of the cloud for and superior operating margins.
Our organic in adapting to change, with four out ofour Sage.
From virtually no cloud presence in FY14 growth aspirations through Sage Business eightregions showing double-digit growth in weve now launched a comprehensive suite of Cloud, combined with the acquisitions we FY17, clear signs that the strategy is working.
cloud-first solutions in our major geographies.
have made, mean that we can start to target a So we now have Sage One in 14 countries, more ambitious growth rate in FY18, with plans Sage Live which we developed internally in to reach 10% revenue growth in the mid-term.
What should we look forward 26weeks and has won multiple awards is We are also setting ourselves the goal to to in FY18?
nowinnine countries and Sage X3 cloud-first trendour operating margins upwards in is now in 14 countries.
To do this we will continue SK: FY18 is the year of Sage Business Cloud, totargetcost savings and instil financial SH: Yes, and importantly these solutions are which we launched in October 2017, discipline within Sage.
When the time is right allgrowing significantly faster than the market providingcustomers with the one and only we can stop over-investing in our go-to-market rate and are starting to become a significant cloudbusiness management platformthey functions and these factors, combined with revenue stream.
FY17 cloud ARR, including willever need from start-up to enterprise.
operating leverage, will allow our margins cloud enabled solutions andSage Intacct and SageBusiness Cloudoffers our customers torise.
SagePeople, was 300m andisgrowing at apowerful set of cloud services, perfectly over 80%.
aligned to their requirements, unifying the SK: Free cash flow remains akey prioritytoo.
Golden Triangle of Accounting, People & Weare one of the only FTSE 100 companies For me the cost transformation has also been Payroll and Payments & Banking.
Supporting that have increased their dividend every year a real achievement.
We achieved 59m of core solutions, we are developing a thriving since 1999 and we will continue to do that but annualised savings in FY17, which means over ecosystem with market place applications we will also be mindful of how we deploy our 100m of annualised savings achieved over from ISV partners powered by a Sage capital.
Steve and I spend a lot of time thinking the past two years, which we continue to developer platform for APIs and innovative about how we employ capital to drive the best The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 17 In conversation with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer continued returns.
So when we look at an acquisition, financial discipline and strategic fit of the acquisition are very important considerations.
In FY17 we have invested a significant amount of cash on acquisitions but we have retained strong year-end Group return on capital employed of 27% and net debt: EBITDA leverage at 1.6x, well within our guided range of1-2x.
So I think shareholders can expect to see a continuation of that discipline and an increasing acceleration of the performance ofthe Company.
Speaking of acquisitions, there were some significant purchases made in FY17.
Can you tell us a bit more about them and their progress since joining Sage?
SK: Yes, Im really excited about the three acquisitions which we announced in FY17.
Thelargest was the acquisition of Intacct, nowSage Intacct, which has been named theGartner Visionary for Cloud Financial Management Suites in North America.
We also renewals by value of 100%.
And Compass has during the year we signed over 50 Sage X3 announced the acquisition of Fairsail, which increased user numbers by 65% since contracts over 100,000 resulting in Sage X3 we have rebranded as Sage People, acquisition.
revenue growing at over 20% in FY17.
Sage Live thecloudHCM solution, and Compass, average ACV has shown a four-fold increase in thebenchmarking and collective the year and Sage One average ACV has risen Sage has transformed into a intelligenceplatform.
by 34% on the prior year as we focus on cloud-first company.
How are customers more suited to these functionallyEach of these acquisitions was carefully rich solutions.
selected for its ability to accelerate our you driving success in the cloud success in the cloud and to reinforce our SK: Yes, we are the clear market leader in and which areas are you Golden Triangle.
Thanks to these acquisitions scale-up to lower enterprise and these market focusing on?
and the significant focus internally, we now segments continue to drive most of our have a comprehensive suite of cloud solutions revenue, providing the sweet-spot of strong SH: Throughout FY17 we have really focused on across our Golden Triangle to take a customer profitability and fragmented competition.
The improving functionality, user-experience and from start-up all the way to enterprise in our acquisition of Intacct significantly enhances overall ecosystem in the cloud.
this position as we now have a market-leading, resulted in driving our cloud-first solutions SH: These were three different acquisitions but higher within their market segments and they do have some similarities, with the best increasing revenue per contract.
For instance, example being that in all cases we have acquired fantastic teams led by first-class leadership.
The acquisitions werent about Sage acquiring businesses and imposing an The acquisitions werent about Sage inflexible way of working on them, its about us learning from each other to accelerate Sages strategy.
The teams in our acquired businesses acquiring businesses and imposing have built market-leading, cloud-first subscription models and we are delighted an inflexible way of working on them, towelcome them to the Sage family.
Its very encouraging that all three businesses its about us learning from each other have grown more strongly under our ownership.
Sage Intacct has surpassed ARR of to accelerate Sages strategy.
$100m for the first time ever and continues to grow at over 30%.
Sage People had a record Q4 with the highest ever contract signed, the highest everaverage contract value ACV and 18 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Progress through the transformation: General & Administration G&A expense Software subscription revenue as a % of as a % of organicrevenue organic revenue 13.8% 37% FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Cloud Annual Recurring Revenue m Net Promoter Score 300m 25 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Q115 FY15 FY16 Q417 Annual recurring revenue ARR is the value of all components of recurring revenue, annualised for the ensuing year.
Cloud ARR includes the contributions of Sage People and Sage Intacct in addition to Sage One, Sage Live, the cloud version of Sage X3 and the cloud-enabled versions of the Sage 50 and Sage 200 families.
NPS is measured by external company, Medallia, following the industry prescribed process.
This is the first year that we have disclosed NPS and quarterly fluctuations may beexpected.
cloud-first solution in this space to win in the SK: Weve seen some successful marketing doing the right thing and contributing to their US, which represents over 50% of our total campaigns too this year thanks to a lasercommunities and its been a great way to addressable market.
guided focus on areas that will drive a attract and retain the best talent.
Our targeted campaign The start-up market also remains an important SK: We cant talk about Sage Foundation in September 2017, featuring our updated part of the strategy.
With Sage One, as well as without mentioning our partnership with the brand in San Francisco and Chicago, resulted improving functionality, we are continuing to Invictus Games, which was a real highlight of in a 41% rise in brand search queries and a rise focus on building our accountant network and FY17 and an immensely humbling experience.
launching Sage One through our new Iwas privileged to meet some inspirational e-commerce website.
people who told some truly amazing and moving stories.
When you bring that back into There have been many the workplace, some of the things you grapple achievements under your Tell us about your current go-towith on a day to day basis dont seem quite so leadership at Sage, what would market strategy, have there big when you compare them to the journeys that these people have been through.
you say is your proudest so far?
been any significant changes this year?
SK: Throughout a transformation, instilling a positive culture is incredibly important.
Sage SK: Im pleased to say things are progressing Foundation has been an integral part of this well under the stewardship of our President, and Im really proud of what we have achieved Blair Crump.
Regional leaders now report into so far.
We offer each of our colleagues up to Blair andfive out eight of these top leaders five paid days a year to volunteer, in which they have changed in the past 18 months, can do something personal and important to assembling ahighly competent and effective them.
I think its fantastic that actually, in what Stephen Kelly team.
Blair is cutting through the complexity is a relatively short period of time over three Chief Executive Officer so our sales teams can focus on winning.
years, in FY17 we had an average of two @SKellyCEO There is still more to do here but we are Foundation days per colleague.
To add to that we have SH: Weve also made good progress with a system where we look to our colleagues to ourpartners and accountants this year, make recommendations in causes they would expanding our network, enhancing our referral like us to support.
In FY17 alone we have programme and using this channel to advise awarded nearly two million pounds of grants Steve Hare on our product roadmap and strategy.
The which is a huge achievement.
I think in this day Chief Financial Officer green shoots of this work are starting to show and age everybody wants to see businesses @SHareCFO with partner revenue growing by 9% intheyear and an increase in cloud partners by125%.
