CEOs statement Overview The strategy is embedded At the Investor Day in March 2016 we said that 2017 would be a acrossthe Group helping year of transition.
I believe our performance in 2017 shows that the strategy is working and we are slightly ahead of schedule.
achieveareturn to growth We have been able to speed up the strategy because of the financial independence that resulted from DMGTs decision toreduce its holding in Euromoney, which they completed inJanuary and by investing some of the benefit from the strengthened US dollar compared to sterling.
We have delivered a return to growth with both year-on-year revenue and profit ahead of 2016 though this included significant help from exchange rates.
We remained focused on our use of capital by investing in the big themes, such as our acquisition of RISI, and disinvesting from areas which would otherwise create a drag.
We have also made good progress fixing structurally challenged businesses and returning them to growth.
The strategy is working In May 2017 we announced a new, progressive dividend policy which aims to pay out approximately 40% of adjusted earnings an ar ity each year.
The new policy, the share buyback, improved Group performance and our strong balance sheet have enabled us to aaou recommend to shareholders a significant increase in dividend for the year.
Andrew Rashbass Chief Executive Officer In the year ahead we shall continue to focus on delivering growth through investing in areas of opportunity and disinvesting from areas that are structurally and cyclically challenged.
Strategy Our strategy is to manage a portfolio of businesses in markets where information, data and convening market participants arevalued.
We deliver products and services that support our clients critical activities.
In particular, we look to serve markets which are semi-opaque: that is, where the information which organisations need in order to operate effectively is hard to find.
We characterise the business models of B2B information companies into three generations, which we call B2B Information 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0.
Their characteristics are set outonpage 11.
As we manage our portfolio to achieve our strategy and to become a 3.0 business, we categorise our business into four quadrants.
We allocate capital to the top two quadrants and withdraw capital from the bottom two.
This quadrant-based assessment leads to three pillars of strategic activity: 1.
Investing around the big themes.
These include price discovery, post-trade activities, asset management and telecoms.
There are two aspects to our model.
One is our target business model see page 14.
The second is a best-of-both-worlds operating model which combines Euromoneys entrepreneurial culture with strong central functions that support the businesses and enable us to take advantage of our scale.
Acquisitions have always been, and remain, an important part of Euromoneys strategy.
We have a record of identifying businesses where our ownership adds value.
We also sell businesses where we believe we are not the best owners and to generate capital to invest in the big themes.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 10 12 11 2017 12:13:28 PM Strategic report Our quadrants PREPARE FOR THE UPTURN INVEST Protect and enhance competitive position New product development 3 4 Selective investments for when cycleturns Sales and marketing Opportunistic revenue initiatives Acquisition Tight cost control Fix any operational deficit Fix any operational deficit Accelerate transition to 3.0 Cycle DISINVEST USE THE TIME WISELY Maximise shorter-term profit and cash Modest investment to move to top-right quadrant 1 2 Divest Maximise shorter-term profit and cash Prevent future build-up Fix any operational deficit Consider divestment Our strategy is designed to develop the businesses we own and In our pricing, data & market intelligence segment, we are deliver strategic, timely, and well-executed acquisitions and investing in technology, sales, product management and in disposals.
We aim to allocate and recycle capital efficiently developing our people across price reporting, insurance and togood organic and inorganic opportunities via our operating telecoms among other areas.
Our ambition is to generate consistent and meaningful returns for our shareholders at relatively low risk.
Transforming the operating model We have now embedded our strategy throughout the Investing around the big themes organisation with our best-of-both-worlds operating model.
Our big themes enable us to exploit market and industry Thishas included the creation of seven divisions grouped opportunities.
In response to the challenges in our asset intoour four reporting segments and five functions under management segment BCA, NDR and Institutional Investor theleadership of our new Group Management Board to due to MiFID II and the shift from active to passive investing, serveour customers better.
ourproduct development is geared to growing segments of themarket: BCA is developing new products targeting passive, specialist and alternative investments NDR is providing tools for registered investment advisors RIAs II is launching new products targeting defined contribution pensions, RIAs and the private wealth sector How information markets are evolving We characterise the business models of B2B information companies into three generations, which we call B2B Information 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0.
Their characteristics are set outbelow.
B2B 1.0 B2B 2.0 B2B 3.0 Print Digital Embedded in workflow platforms Stand-alone events Networking events Trading events memberships Monologue Dialogue Part of the customer industry Advertising-centric Subscriptions Licensing Product-centric Customer-centric Solution-centric Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 11 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 11 12 11 2017 12:13:28 PM Structure CEOs statement Continued Total revenue: 428.4m Actively managing the portfolio We continue to manage our portfolio, investing in our big themes, removing the bottom-left quadrant drag of businesses 428.4 which are structurally challenged or finding better owners for businesses which do not fit with our strategy.
During the year 406.6 403.4 403.1 webought RISI, BroadGroup and Layer123 and disposed of sixbusinesses HedgeFund Intelligence, II Intelligence, Euromoney Indices, Latin Finance, Adhesion and World Bulk Wine the last two completing after year-end.
We continue tolook for acquisitions which are, or have the potential to be, 3.0 businesses.
We have also decided to review strategic options for our Global Markets Intelligence division CEIC and EMIS and you will see that they are identified in this report as held for sale.
These are good businesses, but ones which we believe may fit another owners strategy better.
If sold this 2014 2015 2016 2017 wouldgive us the opportunity to recycle more capital towards our big themes.
Total revenue by division % Performance for the year Headwinds for our asset management businesses BCA, NDR and Institutional Investor meant that revenues in this segment 6 Asset management were under pressure during the year, but we managed costs carefully.
Other businesses performed strongly particularly Pricing, data & 16 market intelligence Metal Bulletin, TelCap and Insurance Insider.
Banking & finance 40 Overall, total and statutory revenues are both up 6% Commodity events year-on-year and adjusted profitbefore tax is up 4% on lastyear, primarily due to the favourable USD-GBP rate, thehigh marginflow-through fromthe asset management segment andthe prior year restructuring of our training business.
Ourfull-year adjusted profit before tax of 106.5m represents astrong performance forthe Group in the year of 38 transition withadjusted diluted earnings per share growing to76.4p from66.5p last year, a 15%increase.
Statutory profit before taxof40.7m is lower thanadjusted profit before tax dueto exceptional items, primarily the impairment charge takenfor NDR in the first half, andacquired intangible amortisation.
Inaddition, Euromoneys tradition of strong cashgeneration continues with underlying conversion ofadjusted operating profit to cash inthe year at 118%.
Theseresults demonstrate ourability to bothinvest for growthand manage the businesseffectively.
106.5m Outlook Adjusted profit before tax With uncertainty still surrounding Brexit and a challenging geopolitical climate we are operating in a volatile environment.
We expect our asset management businesses to continue facingchallenging market conditions due to the headwinds our customers face but believe our risk mitigation plans will reduce the impact.
Commodity markets are improving and our banking clients are experiencing a recovery, although the uncertainty over Brexit negotiations could make this short-lived.
40.7m Statutory profit before tax Our plans are built around these factors and we will continue investing for future growth while managing risk.
The strategy we unveiled in March 2016 is working.
Growth returned slightly ahead of schedule in 2017, which we still regard as a year of transition, and our view is that 2018, the third year of our strategy, will be a year of further and accelerated growth.
Andrew Rashbass Chief Executive Officer 22 November 2017 A detailed reconciliation of the Groups statutory and adjustedresultsisset out on pages 29 and 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 12 12 11 2017 12:13:29 PM
