CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Delivering continued growth 2017 PERFORMANCE Revenue for the Group grew by 4.0% on an organic basis.
New business wins were 8.7% driven by strong MAP 1 client sales and marketing performance in all regions, our retention rate was 94.3% as a result of our ongoing focus and investment, and like for like revenue grew by 1.0% reflecting sensible price increases partially offset by weak volumes in our commodity related business.
On a statutory basis, revenue grew by 15.1%, of which 11.3% was the benefit of currency translation.
Underlying operating profit increased by 5.6% on a constant currency basis.
Operating profit margin increased by 20 basis points as we continue to drive efficiencies across the business using our Management and Performance MAP framework and foreign exchange.
We also benefitted from the end of the restructuring plan in the Emerging Markets and Offshore & Remote last year and the absence of these costs this year.
We have maintained our focus on MAP 3 cost of food with initiatives such as menu planning and supplier rationalisation, as well as continually optimising MAP 4 labour and in unit costs and MAP 5 above unit overheads.
Theseefficiencies combined with modest pricing increases enabled us to offset inflation pressures and reinvest to support the exciting growth opportunities we see around the world.
On a statutory basis, operating profit grew by 18.2%, of which 11.3% was the benefit ofcurrency translation.
Compass had another strong year.
RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS North America continues to deliver Returns to shareholders continue to be an integral part of our business model.
As a result of continued strong cash flow excellent growth, we are continuing to generation, and limited M&A this year, we paid a special dividend make progress in Europe and in Rest of 1 billion 61.0 pence per share in July and declared an annual of World, with trends in our commodity dividend of 33.5 pence per share up 5.7%.
We have also bought back 19 million of shares.
Our leverage policy remains unchanged: related business improving.
to maintain strong investment grade credit ratings, returning any surplus cash to shareholders to target net debt to EBITDA of around1.5x.
GROUP STRATEGY Food is our focus and our core competence.
The food service market is estimated to be more than 200 billion: with only around 50% of the market currently outsourced, it represents a significant structural growth opportunity.
We believe the benefits of outsourcing become further apparent as economic conditions and regulatory changes put further pressure on organisations budgets.
As one of the largest providers in all of our sectors, we are well placed to benefit from these trends.
Our approach to support services is low risk and incremental, withstrategies developed on a country by country basis.
Our largest sector in this market is Defence, Offshore & Remote, where the model is almost universally multi service.
In addition, we have an excellent support services business in North America and some operations in other parts of the world.
This is a complex segment and there are significant differences in client buying behaviour across countries, sectors and sub-sectors.
18 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUPS GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD USES OF CASH AND BALANCE SHEET PRIORITIES We have a truly international business, with operations in around The Groups cash flow generation remains excellent and it will 50countries.
continue to be a key part of the business model.
Our priorities for how we use our cash remain unchanged.
We will continue to: North America 58% of Group revenue is likely to remain the i invest in the business to support organic growth where we see principal growth engine for the Group.
We have a market leading opportunities with good returns: ii pursue M&A opportunities: our business, which delivers high levels of growth by combining the cost preference is for small to medium sized infill acquisitions, where we advantage of our scale with a segmented client facing sector look for returns greater than our cost of capital by the end of year approach.
The outsourcing culture is vibrant and the addressable two: iii grow the dividend in line with underlying constant currency market is significant.
earnings per share: and iv maintain strong investment grade credit The fundamentals of our businesses in Europe 26% of Group ratings returning any surplus cash to shareholders to target net debt revenue are good.
Our investment in MAP 1 sales and retention has to EBITDA of around 1.5x.
returned the region to growth and with the creation of sub-regional 2017 SUMMARY business units, we continue to see opportunities to deliver Compass had another strong year.
North America continues to efficiencies and make our operations more competitive.
deliver excellent growth, we are continuing to make progress in Rest of World 16% of Group revenue offers excellent long term Europe and in Rest of World, with trends in our commodity related growth potential.
Our largest markets are Australia, Japan and Brazil, business improving.
whilst India and China have strong long term growth potential.
We continue to drive operating efficiencies around the business Lowercommodity prices and a weak macroeconomic backdrop which, combined with the end of the restructuring in our Offshore have impacted our Offshore & Remote business and some of our & Remote business, resulted in margin improvement of 20 basis emerging markets, but trends are beginning to improve.
We have points inthe period.
concluded a restructuring of our business to adapt to the changing market environment and remain excited about the attractive long Given our excellent cash generation and the strength of the term growth prospects of the region.
business, this year we returned 1.6 billion to shareholders via ordinary and special dividends and share buybacks.
This reflects COMPASS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES our commitment to return surplus cash to shareholders whilst SECTORISED APPROACH maintaining an efficient balance sheet.
The global food services market is very large and disparate and we 2018 OUTLOOK find that segmenting the market into various sectors and sub-sectors Our expectations for FY2018 are positive, with growth and margin using our portfolio of B2B brands allows us to operate more improvement weighted to the second half.
The pipeline of new effectively.
It allows us to be closer to our clients and consumers and contracts is encouraging and our focus on organic growth, better understand their different needs.
In this way, we can create efficiencies and cash gives us confidence in achieving another innovative, bespoke offers that meet their requirements, and in year of progress.
doing so truly differentiate ourselves.
In the longer term, we remain excited about the significant SCALE structural growth opportunities globally and the potential for further As we continue to grow, our scale enables us to achieve our goal revenue growth, margin improvement, as well as continued returns of being the lowest cost, most efficient provider of food and to shareholders.
Scale is a benefit in terms of food procurement, labour management and back office costs.
It underpins our Finally, Id like to thank all my colleagues within Compass.
The last competitiveness and enables us to deliver sustainable growth 11 years have been very rewarding.
Together, we have built the over time.
foundations of a truly great company, and I am confident that Dominic will take Compass onto continued future success.
MAP CULTURE We use the Management and Performance MAP framework across the business.
All our employees use this simple framework to drive performance across the Group.
It helps us focus on a common set of business drivers, whether it is winning new business in the right sector on the right terms MAP 1, increasing our consumer Richard Cousins participation and spend MAP 2, reducing our food costs MAP 3, Group Chief Executive our labour costs MAP 4 or our overhead MAP 5.
21 November 2017 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 19
