Group Chief Executives review 6 DELIVERING SECTOR-LEADING GROWTH FROM OUR MIXEDTENUREMODEL The Group continues to make progress with its strategic objectives of sector-leading growth, superior return on capital and building resilience through the economic cycle.
Our Housebuilding model is based on an Supply of both private and public land remains Group strategy industry-leading strategic land bank, all of good.
In particular, during the period we saw a Our mixed-tenure model gives us the ability whichis located in economically resilient further increase in public sector land being released tobuild sites out more quickly, delivering much markets in Outer London and the Home for regeneration giving us additional opportunities needed high-quality housing.
Over80per cent of our land bank to secure more work.
strategy through our two balanced operating isstrategically sourced via long-term planning divisions of Partnerships and Housebuilding, Labour supply continues to be constrained promotion, which offers Countryside over both of which offer strong growth through across the industry and we, along with the tenyears visibility of future supply, together differentiated models that deliver capital efficiency Home Builders Federation, have been encouraging with an average 10 per cent discount to the and manage risk.
Ourdevelopments offer a wide the Government to protect the status of EU prevailing open market value.
Additionally, as range of pricepoints, with homes for first-time construction workers as a vital part of the UK 73 per cent ofthis land is controlled via buyers through to larger homes from our economy and to protect future development.
options or conditional contracts, it ensures premium brand, Millgate.
To mitigate this risk, we are recruiting a record both balance sheet efficiency and flexibility number of apprentices and management trainees Our Partnerships division operates in Outer through the cycle.
and have expanded our graduate recruitment London, the West Midlands and the North programme.
In addition, our larger site profile West of England.
It delivers private, affordable Overview of the market allows us to retain and expand our supply chain, and Private Rental Sector PRS homes on Overall the backdrop for the UK housing market by offering greater visibility of future work and larger sites, typically public sector brownfield remains positive with continued strong customer longer contracts.
Overall, build cost inflation sites or local authority estate regeneration.
demand, favourable mortgage lending conditions was approximately four per cent for the year.
Theland is typically sourced via public and good political support.
During the year all procurement or direct negotiation and is In order to meet the increased demand for political parties recognised the need for additional developed in partnership with local authorities, housing, despite the labour shortage, the industry housing, not just because of the chronic need housing associations or PRS providers.
It is must also look at different build methodologies for new homes but also because of the important alow-capital model offering strong returns to deliver growth in output.
We already utilise role that housebuilding plays in the wider economy.
andthe flexibility of long-term development off-site timber frame construction on around In February 2017, the Government issued a agreements, many with phased viability and 40per cent of our current output.
We are housing white paper, Fixing our broken housing priority returns.
The division has an excellent examining the way that this process can be market, which set out a broad range of reforms track record of winning new work, reflecting enhanced to include all windows, first-fix plumbing to help shape the housing market and increase over 30 years experience on over 60 regeneration and electrical insulation and plasterboard in a the supply of new homes.
One of the main schemes, strong relationships withlocal authorities closed panel system.
We believe that off-site themes of the report was a shift in focus from and expertise in placemaking.
Typically, we secure construction is integral to meeting our growth home ownership to increasing supply of all around 40 per cent of bidswe submit, and plans and securing our supply chain for the future.
tenures of housing, including more affordable with a current pipeline ofapproximately nine and PRS homes.
In October 2017, the Government years, we have excellent visibility of future work.
Our performance reaffirmed its support for housing, committing a further 2bn of funding to deliver more 2017 was another year of strong progress with affordable homes and an additional 10bn of both divisions performing well.
Overall, the Group funding for the Help to Buy scheme, which has grown strongly, with total completions up currently runs to 2021.
28 per cent to 3,389 homes 2016: 2,657 homes driven by construction site starts and increased open sales outlets.
As anticipated, growth of private for sale homes was particularly strong, up 47 per cent to 1,662 homes 2016:1,127 homes as the large number of sites started in 2016 reached full production.
However, private for sale completions were still less than half of our overall delivery during the year reflecting our strategy of .
28% 88 growth in total active sites at completions 30 September 2017 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 7 The standard of our business has also been maintained throughout this period of growth.
Our health and safety Accident Incident Rate was 220 2016: 305, significantly better than the Health and Safety Executive construction index and the Home Builders Federation industry benchmark.
National House Building Council NHBC reportable items were 0.21perhome 2016: 0.23, which was again significantly ahead of the industry benchmark.
242.4m We maintained our focus on our objective of of reservations in becoming a five-star builder during the year our private forward and our customer servicehas continued to order book improve.
Our customer satisfaction, as measured by the NHBC Recommend a Friend score, now stands at 88.6 per cent 2016: 84.8 per cent.
Outlook Total adjusted revenue was up 32 per cent to Current trading has remained robust since year 1 1,028.8m 2016: 777.0m, with a planned end.
Low interest rates and increased demand decline in the Group private average selling price from first-time buyers, supported by Help to Buy, ASP to 430,000 2016: 465,000 more continue to underpin private for sale homes, than offset by an increase in affordable ASP.
while the structural demand for affordable and Underlying house price inflation was five per cent PRS homes further supports our growth plans.
during the year and offset build cost inflation in We continue to successfully convert our strategic both divisions.
Our net reservation rate was land bank to open more sites and, as a result, above our target range at 0.84 reservations per our Housebuilding division is on its way to optimal open sales outlet 2016: 0.78 on an increased scale.
This growth, combined with our excellent number of open sales outlets at 47 2016: 43. pipeline of Partnerships work, which allowed At 30 September 2017, we had a further us to increase our targets at our interim results, 41sites under construction.
and a record year-end forward order book, gives us great confidence to deliver our We continue to focus on capital and operational medium-term plans.
We are encouraged by efficiency both at the divisional and at the Group thecontinued political support for all tenures of level.
Group operating margin increased by 20bps, housing with the recently increased commitments which, together with increased revenue, gave to both Help to Buy and affordable housing 2 an adjusted Group operating profit of 164.1m and we feel we are ideally placed to benefit 2016: 122.5m, up 34 per cent on the prior from these policies.
This, combined with our focus on capital efficiency, allowed us to exceed our ROCE target of 28per cent, as set out at our IPO, a year Ian Sutcliffe earlier than planned at 30.5 per cent in 2017, up Group Chief Executive 370bps on the prior year 2016:26.8per cent.
21 November 2017 We pride ourselves on the quality of our product and were delighted to be named Large Housebuilder of the Year at the recent Housebuilder Awards.
In addition, we were presented with a further nine awards during the year for work at Acton Gardens London, Abode Cambridge, Woolley Hall Berkshire and Englemere Ascot.
On a reported basis, revenue increased 26 per cent to 845.8m 2016: 671.3m.
On a reported basis, Group operating profit was increased 48per cent to 128.9m 2016: 87.3m.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
