STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Chief Executives Statement It is pleasing to report another year of good progress and strong results, against a backdrop of economic uncertainty.
1 1 EPRA EARNINGS DIVIDENDS PER SHARE EPRA NAV PER SHARE 45.2m 16.0p 9.52 15.9% 8.8% 7.2% Growing earnings Continued demand for space in our popular and busy locations, together with our proven management strategy, has resulted in an increase in net property income of 5.0% to 88.3 million.
We are now reaping the benefits of the important refinancing initiatives we completed in October last year, which significantly reduced our finance costs.
Together, these factors have contributed to an increase in EPRA 1 earnings of 6.2 million to 45.2 million, which equates to an increase in EPRA earnings per share1 of 15.7%.
Uplift in NAV Our exceptional portfolio has delivered underlying capital value growth of 7.0% over the year, adding 83 pence 9.3% 1 to EPRA net asset value per share.
The increase in value reflects the combined impact of growing current income and the prospect of sustained future income growth, particularly in locations which are expected to benefit from Crossrail-related footfall in the coming years.
Limited opportunities to buy the type of buildings we own, and continuing strong investor demand, have led to a reduction in investment yields in the West End market, particularly in the second half of the year.
This valuation uplift has been offset partly by the cost of terminating our remaining legacy interest rate swaps, which amounted to 20 pence per share.
At 30 September 2017, 1 EPRA NAV per share stood at 9.52, an increase of 64 pence, or 7.2%.
See page 140 7 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW CHIEF ExECUTIVES STATEMENT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 A unique portfolio in an West End connectivity and exceptional location infrastructure Our portfolio extends to some 600 buildings across 14 acres of Londons The completion of Crossrail 1 is now a year away, with the first services on West End.
the Elizabeth line expected in December 2018.
Once fully operational, this important addition to Londons transport network will add 10% to its Our investment strategy is focussed on restaurants, leisure and retail, uses capacity, and materially improve accessibility to the West End.
Over the which, in the West End, have a long record of resilience and growth.
Our medium term, we expect the new transport hubs at Tottenham Court Road long-term management strategy of assembling clusters of ownerships and Bond Street will result in significant changes to traditional footfall enables us to curate and promote distinctive destinations which offer a wide patterns throughout the West End.
With all our portfolio in close proximity variety of innovative, mid-market choices in dining, leisure and retail.
to these hubs, we anticipate being a major beneficiary of these changes, London is the largest city in Western Europe and most visited city in the with a number of our streets expected to see much increased footfall and western world, with an estimated 19.1 million international visitors in 2016. profile, enhancing their long-term rental growth prospects.
Current forecasts point to a growth in tourist numbers of around 3.5% per Continuing investment across the transport network is improving reliability annum through to 2025. and increasing capacity, encouraging travel by public transport to the West Located at its heart is the West End, with its exceptional variety of visitor End.
Last years introduction of 24-hour running at weekends on certain attractions, from cultural and historic to dining and shopping.
The exceptional underground lines has been well-received, and initial passenger numbers numbers of domestic and international visitors, together with a large local have exceeded forecasts.
working population, mean that the West End is busy seven-days-a-week, Elsewhere, we are seeing a number of Crossrail-related public realm throughout the year.
It offers a prosperous trading environment for our schemes progressing.
Of great importance to the West End is the initiative occupiers, attracting demand for space and sustaining growth in our rental announced, earlier this year, to pedestrianise much of Oxford Street.
will bring significant benefits, including a much-improved pedestrian Within the West End, the availability of space, particularly for restaurant, environment and a reduction in traffic-generated air pollution.
Currently, it leisure and retail uses, is constrained by local planning and other policies.
is expected that the first stage of pedestrianisation, west of Oxford Circus, This structural imbalance between demand for, and availability of, space is will be operational by mid-2018.
Planning for the eastern end of Oxford fundamental to our portfolios rental and capital value prospects.
The West End economy Investing in our portfolio In our long experience, the breadth of the West Ends economy provides Our strategy is to adapt our buildings to meet the expectations of todays considerable protection from the cyclicality and headwinds experienced by occupiers, and improve energy performance, through reconfiguration and the UK national economy.
We focus on uses where we provide space in shell form only, with tenants taking responsibility for what Over the year, business and consumer confidence has begun to come under are often substantial fit-out costs.
This significantly reduces our exposure to pressure, and growth in the national economy is slowing.
However, conditions obsolescence costs across the portfolio.
Consequently, despite continuing in the West End have so far largely been unaffected.
In particular, weakness high levels of activity across our holdings, capital expenditure remains in sterling has provided a boost to the spending power of international visitors modest.
This year, our outlay was 40.3 million, slightly above our long-term as well as increasing visitor numbers.
Our restaurants, cafs, bars and shops average of around 1% of portfolio value.
Additionally, our share of capital are reporting resilient trading growth, better enabling them to absorb expenditure in the Longmartin joint venture was 1.2 million.
upward pressures on operating costs currently faced by all businesses.
We continue to identify schemes across our portfolio, and are prepared to Demand for the smaller accommodation that traditionally we offer is intervene to negotiate early vacant possession of space to accelerate our healthy.
Lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews are being concluded on plans.
We balance the costs of these initiatives against the valuable terms in line with our expectations, and vacancy levels have remained in line long-term benefits to income and capital values, which frequently with our long-term trend of 3%, or less, of portfolio ERV.
compound across our extensive adjacent ownerships.
We are making good progress at our three larger schemes.
46% by ERV of the completed space is now either let or under offer and marketing of the remaining space continues.
This larger space we are offering requires Adding to our portfolio occupiers to invest significant sums in fit-out and take on substantial rental We have assembled our portfolio over a period of 31 years, through acquiring commitments and we expect letting periods to be longer than for smaller single buildings, small portfolios, or occasionally large blocks, which were in space.
Macro-economic uncertainties are now showing signs of slowing single ownership.
We apply strict investment criteria to every purchase, and potential occupiers decisionmaking processes.
We shall be patient in focus on the prospects for long-term income growth potential through selecting occupiers which match our long-term aspirations.
harnessing our forensic market knowledge, our particular skills in improving The widely reported increase in national business rates took effect in April older building stock and capturing synergies with our other ownerships.
As we anticipated, average increases for our occupiers were in the The buildings we seek to acquire in our chosen locations are frequently in range of 30% to 40%, with a large number of our smaller tenants able to long-term private ownership.
Their availability is always limited, as existing benefit from a four-year transition period.
Occupiers of large space on owners are reluctant to sell in our sought-after areas.
Understandably, streets where rental levels are above our average have seen greater competition to purchase is intense, as other investors appreciate the increases, and only limited transition provisions.
Despite these unwelcome long-term prospects and security they offer.
increases in operating costs for our tenants, we have not seen any direct This year, additions to our portfolio totalled 37.1 million.
In addition, in impact on occupancy levels or interest in leasing space.
August 2017, we announced the forward purchase of a strategically important During the year, we concluded 31.1 million of leasing transactions, achieving block on Berwick Street in Soho, for 38.5 million.
Currently, it is undergoing rents for commercial space 6.7% above ERV at the previous year end.
This is a major redevelopment, which is expected to finish in late 2018, at which not only converting an element of our reversionary potential in to point we will complete the acquisition.
contracted income, but it also provides valuable evidence to increase rental tones and grow income from our adjacent and nearby buildings.
8 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW CHIEF ExECUTIVES STATEMENT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Refinancing legacy debt and hedging Looking ahead The uncertainties created by last years EU referendum decision have Taking advantage of low long-term interest rates, over the year, we have increased during 2017.
It may be some time before the UKs future trading taken important steps to refinance the remainder of our legacy debt and and other arrangements with the EU become clear, and there could be further hedging, whilst adding to our financial resources.
challenges as their ramifications become apparent.
Inevitably, business and We have issued 575 million of long-dated bonds, comprising 285 million consumer confidence is being affected, slowing economic growth and for 15 years at 2.487% and 290 million for 10 years at 2.348%.
proceeds were used, in part, to fund the early repayment of our historical The broad economic base of the West End, and its enduring global appeal to debenture stock and a bank facility.
In addition, we have terminated our visitors and businesses, underpin its resilience and long-term prospects, providing remaining 180 million of interest rate swaps.
a considerable degree of protection against national economic headwinds.
Together, these transactions reduced the cost of our debt significantly, This has been evident in the strength of our performance through different benefiting earnings and dividends, as well as adding around 310 million to business cycles and operating environments in our 31-year history.
In a competitive investment market, the ready The successful implementation of our distinctive strategy is due to our availability of funding to secure acquisitions gives us a valuable advantage.
committed, experienced and enthusiastic team, supported by the wide range of external advisors who are invaluable in delivering our strategy.
Together, they bring flair and innovation to the management of our portfolio, ensuring it Long-term rewards of a long-term evolves and adapts to meet the ever-changing tastes and expectations of all strategy those who visit, work or establish businesses in the West End.
October 2017 marked the 30th anniversary of the listing of Shaftesburys Underwritten by the unique features of the West End, we are confident our shares on the London Stock Exchange.
In our early years, whilst we owned a strategy will continue our long record of growing our exceptional portfolios block of 26 restaurants in the centre of Chinatown, our assets comprised income and value, and, in turn, the returns we deliver to our shareholders.
mainly offices in London and several UK locations.
From mid-1993, we refocussed the business, concentrating on restaurant, leisure and retail in Londons West End.
Brian Bickell Our long-term approach to assembling and managing this exceptional portfolio Chief Executive has delivered sustainable growth in income, which is the ultimate driver of long-term value.
The success of this strategy is evident in our performance.
27 November 2017 Since we floated in 1987, our share price has risen 460%, compared with the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index of 94%, and since our focus switched to the West End, the increase has been 1,431% against 119% for the sector.
RELATIVE SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE SINCE RELATIVE SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE FOLLOWING LISTING IN 1987 REFOCUS ON THE WEST END IN 1993 460% 1,431% Shaftesbury FTSE 350 Real Estate Shaftesbury FTSE 350 Real Estate Both rebased to 100 Both rebased to 100 366% 1,312% 94% 100 119% 100 Oct 87 Oct 17 Jul 93 Oct 17 9 10
