Zooplas new advertising campaign which launched in April Chief Executive Officers statement and business review We are stronger andmore diversified Delivering on our strategy and mission We have made significant progress than ever before towards our mission of being the platform of choice for consumers and partners engaged in property and household 2017 has been another very exciting year for ZPG decisions.
During the Period, we announced as we continued to help our consumers to make five acquisitions, three further strategic smarter property and household-related decisions investments and the launch of two new national marketing campaigns.
and our partners to operate more effectively.
Our audience continued to grow and Thecombination of our underlying organic growth remains highly engaged with a new record and strategic acquisitions has made us stronger of 648 million visits to our websites, and more diversified than ever before, resulting of which 72% were via mobile devices.
We launched new national advertising inrecord revenues up 24% to 244.5 million and campaigns for both our Zoopla and uSwitch record Adjusted EBITDA up 25% to 96.4 million.
Zooplas new campaign highlighted how we can help simplify the process of moving home, through the eyes of hermit crabs, the worlds most prolific home movers.
uSwitchs new marketing campaign unveiled an updated logo identity and new Alex Chesterman OBE, brand slogan Switching made simple.
Founder & CEO Both campaigns resulted in record levels of national brand awareness.
As a result we generated a record of over 56 million leads for our more than 25,000 partners during the Period.
08 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Our cross-sell strategy to both consumers In Comparison, the Company will report October 2017 following the end of the and partners is working.
We are engaging revenue by Energy, Communications and Period : Money is one of the UKs leading our consumer audience effectively and are Finance and its total number of Comparison finance comparison websites, helping driving thousands of incremental leads leads and average revenue per lead ARPL consumers to compare thousands of deals across our platforms.
In March we launched across the division.
Full details of the like for in more than 60 product categories our innovative MovePlanner tool on Zoopla like performance under the new methodology including mortgages, loans, credit cards, which helps consumers manage everything including acquisitions in both periods can bank accounts and insurance.
move-related in one place and allows us to be found on page 40.
We also made further strategic investments generate leads for conveyancing, removals, in Neos: the UKs first home insurance Read more about our strategic priorities on page 18 insurance, energy, broadband and more.
provider that provides the latest connected This tool is now generating over 10,000 home technology and Zero Deposit: an incremental leads per month for our Acquisitions and partnerships exciting new insurance product that replaces Comparison partners.
Zoopla is also now the need for tenants to place a security We completed four acquisitions during driving over 25% of the overall mortgage deposit at the beginning of a tenancy.
the Period and one following the end of the traffic to uSwitch.
Additionally we took an equity stake in Period, enhancing our product propositions We continued to attract a focused, PropertyFinder Group, a Dubai-based and cross-sell opportunities to both our transaction-ready audience to our uSwitch business which owns the leading property consumers and partners.
website with account sign-ups increasing portals across the Middle East and November 2016: TechnicWeb is one by 60% to 1.9 million at the end of the North Africa.
of the UKs leading estate agency website Period.
Consumers can now manage These new acquisitions and strategic design and hosting businesses.
This acquisition multiple products within their account and partnerships help to further differentiate has now been integrated into our wider set reminders for contract end dates so that our products and services.
business and gives our partners the ability they never miss an opportunity to switch to instantly refresh their online presence with to a better deal.
In addition, uSwitchs app Read more about our approach to M&A a choice of different fully mobile-optimised won numerous awards during the Period and partnerships on page 12 website designs.
including Most innovative use of mobile and Best app at the MOMA Awards and January 2017: Hometrack is the UKs Property Best use of mobile at the DADI Awards.
leading provider of residential property Revenues in our Property division increased market insights and analytics.
This acquisition The cross-sell opportunity to our Property by 41% to 122.3 million for the Period, has helped us to further differentiate our partners has been significantly enhanced driven by strong demand for our additional products for both consumers and partners through the acquisitions of TechnicWeb, upsell products, further migration of our and has also introduced a new set of partners Hometrack, ExpertAgent and Ravensworth.
software partners to cloud-based products to ZPG including 18 of the top 25 mortgage We are now able to offer best-in-class and a continuation of returning portal partners.
portal, software, websites, data and print This figure includes a full 12 months of trading services to our partners.
Our MoveIT platform March 2017: ExpertAgent is a leading from Property Software Group, which was generated over 1 million in referrals fees property software provider that provides acquired on 28 April 2016, as well as the for our partners and has become a net revenue essential systems for the day-to-day post-acquisition trading of TechnicWeb, generator for a number of agents who are able management of estate agent businesses.
Hometrack, ExpertAgent and Ravensworth to earn an additional 1,000 per transaction By integrating with existing ZPG products which were acquired during the Period.
by offering additional relevant services to we are able to ensure all of our partners On a like for like basis including acquisitions consumers including conveyancing, mortgages benefit from a choice of platforms suitable in both periods Property revenue increased and energy switching.
As at the end of the to their requirements.
Period the average number of products per September 2017: Ravensworth is the leading partner was up 27% to 1.4.
We saw the total number of unique Property provider of integrated print solutions to over partners increase by 12% to 24,962 at the end To reflect the evolution of the business, 4,500 UK estate agent branches.
This figure has been restated following the recent acquisitions ZPG further enhances ZPGs comprehensive to align portal and software partner count will update its divisional key performance product offering for its Property partners under the same methodology as previously indicators KPIs from FY2018 onwards.
which now includes portal, software, websites, 1 announced at the half year.
The number of In Property, the Company will report on-demand print and data services.
UK Agents advertising across our Property revenue by Marketing, Software and Data platform increased by 6% to 14,775 and our and its total number of unique Property inventory grew by 5% to over 969k listings partners and average revenue per partner at the end of the Period.
co. uk 09 Chief Executive Officers statement and business review continued Property continued ARPP increased by 5% to 358 due to strong demand for premium portal products, the continued migration of software partners to cloud-based products and the inclusion of acquisitions.
The combination of strong organic growth and the integration of acquisitions enables ZPG to provide the UKs most comprehensive product offering to its Property partners including best-in-class portals, software, websites, data and print services to help our partners market, manage and maximise their business opportunities.
Traffic to our Property platform has continued to grow to over 48 million visits per month, up 6% year-on-year YoY, delivering over 22 million leads to our Property partners over the Period, with appraisal leads up 33% YoY.
We have substantially enhanced the breadth of our Property Marketing proposition to include the provision of cloud-based websites via TechnicWeb acquired 1 December 2016 and on-demand print services solutions via Ravensworth acquired 1 September 2017.
Our Property Software business is performing well with the continued migration of partners from desktop to cloud-based products, growing from 39% at the end of September 2016 to 46% at the end of September 2017.
On 28 February 2017, we acquired ExpertAgent, one of the UKs leading cloud-based software providers, further enhancing our stable of software products and enabling us to offer even more partners the ability to generate additional revenues Comparison I would like to welcome theteams through the integration of our MoveIT We experienced strong levels of switching from TechnicWeb, Hometrack, and PropertyFile products into the across all Comparison verticals, helping our ExpertAgent, Ravensworth and ExpertAgent platform.
consumers to save over 400 million off Money tothe ZPG family and thank their household bills during the Period.
The acquisition of Hometrack, the UKs the entire team for their continued Revenues in our Comparison division leading provider of residential property market commitment toour mission.
increased 10% to 122.2 million and we insights, on 31 January 2017, formed the generated 34.3 million leads for our cornerstone of our Property Data business.
Comparison partners during the Period, Since the acquisition, Hometrack has signed up 13% YoY.
ARPL decreased by 3% to new deals with TSB and Bank of Ireland 3.57 reflecting a shift in product mix and extended its relationship with HSBC, within the Communications vertical.
and now serves 18 of the top 25 mortgage lenders in the UK.
We have also made good As a backdrop to this year, we saw progress on the integration of Hometracks exceptionally strong switching volumes valuation data into the overall business with in both the Energy and Communications the coverage of Zooplas house price estimates verticals in 2016 from our market-leading increasing to over 80% of UK households.
collective switches, energy supplier price cuts and strong competition amongst communications suppliers.
1 The total number of unique Property partners has been restated to exclude 788 legacy software customers of Property Software Group who are not paying for an active support contract and to include Zoopla Advertising and Data partners.
10 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report In September 2017, the CMA published its final report as part of its market study into Digital Comparison Tools DCTs which highlighted how comparison services are Q&A putting power into the hands of the consumer and driving increased competition, highlighting the ongoing regulatory support for the role Q: How do you target and identify of DCTs.
A: We continue to be one of the Our talent fastest growing tech businesses in the We grew our team by 20% over the UK organically.
However, we have also Period from 735 to 882 staff members as a supplemented that growth via targeted result of both organic growth and strategic M&A and strategic partnerships.
We remain passionate about look to identify businesses that fit being a market-leading employer and providing clearly within our strategy and can help a world-class environment and continue accelerate our growth and market to place significant emphasis on employee position or improve our product engagement and wellbeing by investing proposition.
We are very ambitious in market-leading benefits.
Our London and there is a lot we want to do and headquarters was recently named One of M&A and strategic partnerships have the coolest offices in Britain by Glassdoor.
played an important role in our growth story and strategy to date.
See page 12 Read more about how we put people at the heart formore on our M&A.
of ZPG on page 42 Q: Are you pleased with how the Looking ahead rollout of the MoveIt tool is going?
We are very excited by both the underlying A: Absolutely, but were really only just growth and unique cross-sell opportunities getting started.
MoveIt has been we have created in each division as we designed to help provide new revenue continue our mission of being the platform streams to our partners and boost their of choice for consumers and partners engaged bottom lines.
It is a real win for in property and household decisions.
We will consumers who now get access via continue to invest in the business for the their agent to recommended services long term and look forward to launching and providers and for partners who more innovative products and services in can build their own supplier panels to the year ahead.
offer far more to their customers, from conveyancing and removals to financial I would like to welcome all those who have services products and utilities.
joined the ZPG family this year and thank the The Energy vertical particularly benefited entire team for their continued commitment.
from returning switchers on fixed-term deals Q: With almost 1,000 staff in and supplier price rises, enabling us to reach multiple locations, how do you keep a new milestone of over one million energy everyone up to date?
A: Making sure we have regular and Alex Chesterman OBE effective internal communications is a Our Communications vertical performed Founder & CEO critical part of ensuring employees are in line with expectations.
Mobile switching engaged and have the tools they need was boosted by increased competition to do their job.
We have a dedicated amongst suppliers and ongoing optimisation Employee Engagement Manager whose of the consumer experience driving greater role is to lead on our engagement and lead generation and broadband switching internal communications strategy.
We benefited from strong consumer demand also hold regular divisional and full whilst fully absorbing the changes to the Company meetings and events to advertising standards which came into effect provide the latest updates on business at the beginning of the year.
We continued to performance, industry newsand strategy.
develop our Finance offering and significantly enhanced our proposition with the acquisition of Money after the end of the Period.
