OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT INVESTING FOR GROWTH CREATING VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS Last year the Board and my senior leadership team conducted a review of our strategy to refine our priorities for growth over the next decade in tobacco and consumer adjacencies, including e-vapour.
A key element of our strategy is the simplification of our brand portfolio.
By reducing the number of brands and stock keeping units, and prioritising our strongest equities, our Growth and Specialist Brands, we have created a more powerful portfolio that is delivering a higher quality of growth.
We increased investment in these brands by 310 million in the year, focusing spend in a number of areas including portfolio simplification, advertising and marketing, consistent pricing, our sales force and customer engagement.
This higher level of support, aligned with the roll-out of our Market Repeatable Model, delivered market share gains in many of our priority markets and improved share trajectories in others.
Growth Brands performed well, outperforming the market with volume growth and a share gain of 80 basis points.
We also continued to make good progress in e-vapour, further building our capabilities and consumer insights in preparation for an enhanced programme of activity in 2018.
This was an important year of The increased investment in our brands impacted full year revenue and profit, while supporting a stronger second half progress in which we improved our revenue and share performance in a tough industry share position in a number of environment.
It has also strengthened the business to support improved top-line growth over the medium term.
We invested The drive and commitment of our people have been integral to significantly behind our Growth and the delivery of these results and I would like to thank everyone for their hard work and continued support.
Specialist Brands to deliver these results, creating a stronger platform MARKET REPEATABLE MODEL: OUR FOCUS FOR GROWTH Our investments were aligned behind our Market Repeatable for generating further quality Model.
This model builds on the success of the Sales Growth Drivers we have been using in the business for many years and growth in the years ahead.
provides a structured framework for quality growth that is being deployed across our markets.
ALISON COOPER Chief Executive The six elements of the model ensure that wherever we operate we always have: a simple market-focused portfolio, sustained brand investments, a consistent price strategy, a focus on maximising the availability of our core range, tailored customer solutions and honest and accurate learning mechanisms.
How each section is applied in our markets is explained on page 7.
Our investments supported all six elements of the model, strengthening our ability to maximise the performance of our brands in market.
com 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued STRENGTHENING OUR PORTFOLIO: EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM GROWTH BRANDS Streamlining our portfolio has not only improved our quality of IMPERIAL BRANDS AND CHINA TOBACCO growth, it has also substantially cut the level of complexity and In January we announced a long-term joint venture cost in the business.
business with China Tobacco, aimed at developing growth opportunities in China and international The core principle behind the reshaping of our portfolio has been markets.
to reduce the number of weaker Portfolio Brands through migrations and delistings, while driving the performance of our China is the worlds largest tobacco market, with Growth and Specialist Brands.
annual volumes close to 2.5 trillion cigarettes.
As a result we have consistently increased the contribution that The joint venture, Global Horizon Ventures Limited Growth and Specialist Brands make to our success and in doing GHVL, is based in Hong Kong and is focused on: so, we have steadily improved our quality of growth.
These leveraging the expertise of Chinas largest brands now deliver around 63 per cent of the Groups tobacco tobacco company, Yunnan Tobacco, to drive net revenue and our target is for them to eventually account the sustainable development of our Growth for 75 per cent.
Brands West and Davidoff in China During the year we migrated multiple Portfolio Brands into maximising the potential of two Yunnan Growth Brands in a variety of markets.
We also began rolling out Tobacco cigarette brands, Jad and Horizon, a more radical portfolio simplification exercise to reduce in markets outside of China complexity and improve on-shelf availability of our brands in Russia, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Australia, with other An early focus for GHVL was the migration of Style markets to follow.
This was successfully completed and Jad is now one of our Specialist Brands.
Our Growth Brands delivered good results, with the performance of JPS, West, Winston, Davidoff and Gauloises Blondes benefiting We have been very encouraged by the performance from higher investment in a range of priority markets, including of GHVL in the first nine months of operation and the UK, Germany, Italy, Japan, Australia and the USA.
believe that over the coming years, the joint venture has the potential to deliver additional meaningful This was complemented by strong revenue growth from a Growth Brand volumes.
number of our Specialist Brands, including Skruf in Scandinavia, Backwoods in the USA and Premium Cigars in a number As well as driving the performance of the four of markets.
cigarette brands, GHVL will also be evaluating other tobacco and Next Generation Product launches, NEXT GENERATION PRODUCTS: EXPANDING OUR POSITION along with potential merger and acquisition Next Generation Products NGP offer considerable growth opportunities.
opportunities and we will be significantly stepping up our level The joint venture builds on a track record of of activity in 2018, expanding our portfolio with new product co-operation between Imperial and Yunnan launches in new and existing markets.
This is building on the Tobacco, which began in 2003. strong foundations and capabilities we have established over recent years.
E-vapour remains our priority: in our view this is by far the largest NGP opportunity and we believe it offers the greatest current potential for long-term sustainable growth.
In blu, we have one of the best e-vapour brands in the world and we continue to focus on improving the consumer experience.
Vaping technology is continually evolving and in October 2017 we substantially enhanced our technical capabilities with the acquisition of the e-vapour innovation business Nerudia.
During the year we also continued to secure intellectual property royalties from companies using our first generation technology.
Heated tobacco is currently a much smaller NGP category that is growing, most notably in Japan.
While our investments will continue to be focused on supporting e-vapour we have developed options in heated tobacco which can be deployed if we see broad-based sustainable growth developing and we will begin consumer trials of our own heated tobacco products in December 2017.
12 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS DEVELOPING OUR FOOTPRINT: DRIVING SUCCESS IN OUTLOOK: PRIORITISING VALUE CREATION OPPORTUNITIES PRIORITY MARKETS The execution of our strategy has resulted in a stronger and We delivered a number of good performances in priority markets more focused portfolio and footprint, which we have invested across our geographic footprint.
behind to deliver improving share performances in priority markets.
Central to this has been the embedding of our codified Our successes in Growth Markets included strong share gains in Market Repeatable Model, which provides a structured approach Japan, Saudi Arabia, Italy and Russia.
In China, the worlds for generating sustainable quality growth.
largest tobacco market, we have been very encouraged by the performance of our new joint venture with China Tobacco.
We will build on this momentum in the coming year and will continue to take necessary actions to protect our investments ITG Brands delivered another strong performance in the USA, and deliver quality revenue growth in tobacco.
underpinned by volume and share gains from our Growth Brand Winston and our Specialist Brand Kool, offset by declines in our We will also be further enhancing our presence in Next defocused Portfolio Brands.
In addition, our mass market cigar Generation Products.
We have added to our innovation business continues to perform well following last years changes capabilities and will be launching new e-vapour products in to our route to market.
new and existing markets, as we look to realise the significant growth opportunities that e-vapour offers.
In Returns Markets we achieved share increases in three of our most important markets, the UK, Germany and Australia, As always, our focus on driving the performance of our brands complemented by additional share gains in other markets and products will be supported by our diligent approach to cost, including Poland and Portugal.
We also delivered improved share capital discipline and cash management.
trends in France and Spain.
In the context of a volatile industry environment and our continued commitment to investing behind our tobacco and COST OPTIMISATION AND CAPITAL DISCIPLINE: NINTH YEAR next generation products businesses, we are targeting delivery OF 10 PER CENT DIVIDEND GROWTH of constant currency revenue and earnings per share growth Effective cost and cash management supports our strategy by within our medium-term guidance.
improving efficiencies and releasing funds to fuel growth.
We have the strategy and people to succeed in a challenging and We made good progress with our two cost optimisation changing world and will continue to prioritise opportunities that programmes.
The first programme will deliver annual savings of sustainably create value for our shareholders.
300 million from the end of the 2018 financial year.
The second programme will deliver a further 300 million of savings from the September 2020 financial year.
In 2017 we realised total savings of 130 million through a range of initiatives that are reducing complexity and enhancing the way we operate.
ALISON COOPER Chief Executive Strong cash flow is a hallmark of our business and we use this cash to reward our shareholders, invest in the business and pay down debt.
Cash conversion remained strong at 91 per cent and we grew the dividend per share by 10 per cent for the ninth consecutive year.
In September we sold 13,275,000 shares in our European distribution business Logista, reducing our stake by 10 per cent to approximately 60 per cent of Logistas issued share capital.
The sale raised around 220 million, which has been used to buy back shares in Imperial Brands and reduce net debt.
