Chief Executives business review W ELL PLACED TO DELIVER CONTINUED OUTPERFORMANCE This year has been a period of strong operational achievement for Mitchells & Butlers with a sustained return to like-for-like sales growth.
Phil Urban Chief Executive 14 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 Over the last year we have made further progress against It is now two years since I became CEO of our three strategic priorities which were introduced to Mitchells & Butlers, and I feel that we have a address a period of like-for-like sales declines and market covered a lot of ground.
When new to the role, under-performance: we were feeling the pain from all the new supply To build a more balanced business that had opened on our doorsteps over the To instil a more commercial culture previous 18 months.
To drive an innovation agenda Our sales were declining, we were tracking c. 3% behind our competitors as measured by the Peach Tracker, and with unprecedented cost Our initiatives in these areas have been successful in restoring sales headwinds on the horizon, we knew we had to do something different.
growth and mitigating 26m of the inflationary cost headwinds which we faced in the past year.
With inflationary costs continuing into the next We laid out our three strategic priorities that we felt we needed to financial year, our focus on efficiency remains at the forefront.
To this end, address, that we continue to work towards today, namely rebalancing we are embarking on the second phase of initiatives and will provide a our portfolio: driving a commercial edge to the way we do business: further update on these in May.
and also instilling an innovation ethos across all that we do.
a We achieved like-for-like sales growth of 1.8% in the financial year In February 2016, we launched a programme of work designed to meet having continued to build steadily on the sales improvement which these priorities, which I believe is now bearing real fruit.
Unashamedly, began in the second half of FY 2016.
The improvement is partly driven our first objective was to restore the business to sales growth, as without a by capital, however the uninvested estate improved like-for-like sales that, it was difficult to see how we could move forward.
trajectory by 0.6ppts over the course of the year.
This momentum has It is this programme of work that has driven the sales recovery, with the seen us consistently outperforming the market.
Although the final capital investment programme, our sales training and ethos, and our quarter was impacted by disappointing weather, trading since the year investment in and adoption of reputation.
com as our tool to listen to our a end has resulted in strengthened like-for-like sales growth of 2.3% and guests, coupled with better informed pricing decisions, being the we will look to carry this momentum forward.
a As a result of the inflationary cost pressures, adjusted operating profit We cannot and will not let up on the drive to grow sales.
However, we was down 3.1%, on a 52 week basis, despite the positive sales trajectory.
think we have identified the right levers that will continue to strengthen our position.
Despite this progress, we still saw our profit decline last year Our priorities and so attention more latterly has been focused on the opportunities we Building a more balanced business have to drive efficiency.
To that end, we have numerous initiatives that Our estate comprises over 1,750 pubs and restaurants, of which more we have been working on, that we believe will start to change the than 80% are freehold or long-leasehold.
Our focus in this area is to gearing of our business.
optimise the balance of brands across the estate in order to create long-term value.
The strategic report that follows updates you on our progress against the three strategic priorities in the year: outlines our current view of the We are committed to improving the quality of the estate by exposing market in which we operate: details our financial performance in the it to more premium market spaces and by improving overall amenity.
period: and updates you on our priorities for 2018.
We conducted a full estate review last year giving us a plan for each of our sites.
One outcome of this review was the disposal of 79 sites, which Overall, I believe that the progress we have made in the year, and the completed earlier in the year.
A second was the identification of a section initiatives we have in place going forward, leave us well-placed to deliver of the estate which we believe may not be positioned to generate value.
continued market outperformance as well as long term shareholder value.
These are predominantly short leasehold sites in retail and leisure locations, currently trading below expectations.
Having reviewed in detail the future trading potential and brand or offer conversion options for these sites this year, we have concluded that several are unlikely to generate a positive return over the remaining life of their lease.
We have reflected this judgement in an increased onerous lease provision this year.
Our strategy See pages 22 to 23 Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 15 Chief Executives business review continued R EVENUE BY REGION F Y 2017 1 3 2 One way in which we have increased the premium aspect of the 4 business is through growth of Miller & Carter, our successful steakhouse format which is generating strong like-for-like sales.
Over the past year we have increased the number of sites from 52 to 84, with 26 of the 6 additional sites facilitated through conversions of existing sites, and we 5 anticipate reaching 100 sites at the beginning of the next calendar year.
8 Conversions are delivering average EBITDA returns of more than 40%, 7 and we continue to explore various new types of locations for the brand.
11 We also continue to work on enhancing the amenity of other formats 10 through our remodel programme.
For example, we have continued 9 to progress our evolution of Harvester through remodels offering a fresh and contemporary design, bringing rotisserie chicken to the fore, as well as a retargeted offer which is delivering sales uplifts of 10% % of sales following investment.
1 Scotland 5% During the year we have also focused investment on our 2 North West 9% accommodation offer.
We operate over 900 rooms across 52 locations and believe we can generate a strong return by upgrading the rooms 3 North East 3% to be more closely aligned with the feel of the brand they are attached 4 Yorkshire and Humberside 8% to, which in most cases means premiumisation of the accommodation.
5 West Midlands 14% We have completed 15 remodels this financial year with sales uplifts of 6 East Midlands 5% over 20.0% following investment.
We intend to continue our investment in accommodation next financial year and, in addition, will complete the 7 Wales 4% build of a purpose-built lodge.
8 East of England 7% In total we have completed 252 remodels and conversions in FY 2017 9 South West 7% FY 2016 252, which means we are on track to maintain the reduction 10 South East excluding London 15% in our redevelopment cycle from 11 to 12 years previously to six to seven 11 London 23% years now.
Instilling a more commercial culture Instilling a commercial culture is critical to achieving profitable sales growth and we are pleased with the progress made in this area over the year.
The four new operating divisions, each containing similar customer types and brands, introduced last year have improved our guest focus and we have made significant progress across a number of initiatives as evidenced by our like-for-like sales improvement.
The growth of social media has made online reputation more important than ever and we have made significant progress in this area over the course of the year.
com, an online feedback consolidation tool, managers are now responding to 83% of the growing number of online comments, up from 59% a year ago.
As managers have increased their level of engagement with their guests we have also seen average feedback scores increase over the course of the year with total net promoter score having increased to 7.8 ppts to 59%.
In these times of unprecedented cost headwinds, it is important that we rigorously identify and secure efficiency and cost saving opportunities across the business.
Our progress in this area is well advanced with cost 16 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 savings of 26m delivered in FY 2017 and further initiatives identified The demand for food delivery within the industry has remained in for delivery in the current financial year.
For example, we have improved growth and we have been positioning ourselves in order to benefit two key operational systems during the year.
from customers changing habits which we believe provide an opportunity to capture incremental sales.
Over the course of the year The first is a time and attendance labour system which requires team we have increased the number of sites offering Deliveroo from 25 to 61. members to clock in and out, ensuring that staff are paid accurately for We have also carried out a successful trial with JustEat, allowing us to the time worked, whilst also increasing deployment efficiency through offer Harvester and Toby Carvery delivery as well as click and collect.
In addition, managers are able to access the system from any device and the next stage of roll out will include the People capability for team members to swap shifts and for us to share resource As ever, people are central to our Companys success.
We operate in the across local sites.
hospitality industry where the guest experience is critical and cannot be The second system which we have updated during the year is our delivered without the dedication of our 46,000 employees.
In the face stock control system.
This upgraded technology halves the time taken of numerous changes within the business, we are pleased that our to do stock counts and improves stock control ability, reducing both engagement scores have improved by 2.0 points and our retail team the instances of an item being out of stock and wastage.
The next stage turnover has reduced by 4.1 percentage points.
When considered in of this development is an auto ordering system which is now in trial.
the context of the average cost of replacing each team member, including the cost of recruitment, management time and training, this represents In addition to this activity, we continue to leverage our scale through a significant cost saving.
our central procurement processes, meaning that we are able to mitigate a large portion of the input cost inflation currently impacting the market.
Our apprentice scheme is vitally important to us.
We believe these Alongside our procurement efforts, pricing and margin management young people are the lifeblood of the industry and we are delighted remain critical activities within the business.
We are currently trialling to have added a further 1,300 people to our programme during the the use of a dynamic pricing model in order to challenge and to fine financial year.
A further advancement in this area is the launch of our new online Our focus on maximising bookings continues and we have now set up training platform containing a complete library of training materials and a central bookings team to take calls which are missed at site, with the with the ability to plan and track development.
This resource allows conversion rate to a booking of these intercepted calls at 47%.
employees access to materials which will help them to further their career as and when they want to, and also allows them to learn remotely Food safety and health and safety will always remain a top priority for using their own device.
The platform also encourages employees to the business: we are pleased therefore that our safety record improved connect and share their learning experiences to encourage others.
At the end of the year 97.5% of our sites were rated good or very good for food hygiene, a higher proportion than any Current trading and outlook other national pub company.
a In the first seven weeks of the new financial year like-for-like sales have Driving an innovation agenda grown by 2.3%.
Technology continues to evolve at a rapid pace and we have made good We are pleased with the progress made in the last year having returned progress against our digital strategy which positions us well to benefit the Company to sales growth, consistently outperforming the market.
Technology now impacts each aspect of the guest However, the market in which we operate presents us with an journey, from learning about our offers to experiences in site with us and unprecedented level of challenge and uncertainty.
Through this period our ability to encourage guests to return.
One significant area of progress we shall remain focused on delivering our strategy and give priority to during the year has been the development of our mobile order at table maintaining both the competitiveness of our estate and a strong balance facility, allowing guests to order food and drinks from their own devices.
sheet, both of which we believe will leave us well positioned in the This technology is currently in trial in ONeills with a view to roll out long term.
across the brand and to identify opportunities in other brands for development and roll out.
The order at table facility will be combined with our existing mobile payment platform within our brand apps, Phil Urban facilitating a digital experience throughout the guest journey.
The Directors use a number of alternative performance measures APMs that are considered critical to aid understanding of the Groups performance.
Key measures are explained on pages 140 to 142 of this report.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 17
