Chief Executives Review Invested for the future to deliver long-term growth Delivering against our strategy Our focus on delivering a number of strategic initiatives is helping us to sustain the net new funds growth rate of the business.
Particularly strong growth in discretionary funds from the intermediaries channel continues to be the principal driver of our overall increase in funds.
Our success in meeting the growing demand in this market segment resulted from deliberate initiatives, supported by a dedicated sales team, which focused on developing our investment services and meeting the needs of intermediaries and their clients.
During the year we have continued to increase the proportion of new direct discretionary private client funds we attract.
This is a result of offering as broad as possible a range of financial advice to meet client needs, including our integrated investment management and financial planning services.
2017 was a successful year for the business, during which we This demonstrates our advice-led strategy working in practice.
continued to look after our clients investment and advice needs As well as delivering on initiatives to generate current growth, in increasingly uncertain and complex times.
As well as we continued to make good progress on a range of generating further investment returns for clients in line with their programmes aimed at supporting future growth.
These are objectives, we also continued to attract net new client funds.
centred around a number of priorities: Total funds grew by 13.3% during the year to a record expanding the range of services we can offer clients and 40.1 billion, helping to drive our strong financial performance further enhancing our services to keep pace with their for 2017.
Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations changing needs: grew by 14.8% to a record 70.0 million.
Statutory profit before improving the operational efficiency of our organisation: tax from continuing operations was 15.0% higher at 57.6 million.
sharpening the focus of our marketing and promotional activities: and Net new funds growth rate in discretionary funds was 8% for improving support for our employees, via increased the year, well in excess of the 5% per annum target we set investment in training, skills and professional development.
As a result, we are on target to meet the plan we announced two years ago to increase We have a business with a proud heritage, of evident quality discretionary funds by one third from net new funds alone and strength, founded on a strong culture of personalised client within five years see graph below.
service, professionalism and expertise in investments and financial advice.
bn I believe these foundations, further strengthened under the 9 current strategy over the last five years, were a key ingredient in 8.2 us being the successful bidder in a competitive process for the high-quality wealth management business of DLAM.
Financed 6 from our internal reserves, this purchase added a further 0.7 billion in funds when it completed in May 2017.
It has also allowed us to welcome 18 new investment professionals and 3 3.4 Growth 25.8 their clients to Brewin Dolphin.
24.8 Target 1.1 0 2015 2016 2017 2020 excludes acquired funds Brewin Dolphin 16 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information To prosper and remain competitive, successful businesses must These initiatives are still at an early stage.
To date, they entail constantly seek to innovate, change and improve.
At the core modest additional investment in the form of initial staffing and of our current strategy is an appetite for innovation and training costs, as well as some separate office space in central constructive change.
While I consider our record in this regard London to provide an appropriate environment for testing our to be good, I also believe the rate of change in our market new complex advice service.
environment is accelerating see page 12, driven by changing Both are currently standalone, which we believe will provide the client needs and the continued evolution of financial regulation right environment in which to innovate.
However, both these and government policy towards savings and financial advice.
new initiatives will form the basis of services that we intend to make available throughout our network of regional offices where Our strategy aims to position our business so that we can local demand exists.
capitalise on the opportunities these market changes will bring and in so doing, achieve a higher future market share.
Our actions during 2017 We therefore continue to develop new products and services Improving the direct client offering while also improving how we deliver all our services to clients.
It is an ongoing priority for us to free our client advisers from We aim to ensure we can continue to offer attractive services administrative tasks, enabling them to spend as much time as that meet the needs of future clients in the changing market possible with clients.
These efforts have a direct benefit for our environment in a way that is valuable to them and to all business development capabilities, as they allow deeper our stakeholders.
conversations that lead to better understanding of our clients Coupled with a measured approach to risk see page 26, needs, goals and aspirations.
our willingness today to innovate for the future by capitalising on During the year, we made further material progress in our scale and strength to re-invest some of our growing financial developing and engaging teams and individuals with areas of returns is critical to the long-term prospects of our business.
specialist expertise, to help clients implement their bespoke Key components of this approach are understanding client needs financial plans once they have engaged with an adviser.
These and how they are changing, then exploring new ways of meeting experts tend to operate across groups of offices, enhancing our those needs with investment and financial planning solutions.
collaborative culture, freeing up adviser time to focus on Equally important is an appetite for innovation, together with a identifying client needs, enhancing the quality of advice for our commitment to meeting associated costs, not only in pure clients and ensuring the most efficient use of our resources.
financial terms but also in management time and key resources.
As I mentioned earlier, we introduced our WealthPilot initiative Therefore, during the year we focused innovation in two during 2017.
Initially based in the London office, this is a new areas: needs-based wealth-planning and investment advice service delivered by qualified advisers.
The service is delivered over the We began the design and test implementation of a new phone, by Skype or face-to-face in our office, whichever the needs-based wealth planning and investment advice service client prefers.
WealthPilot for clients with simpler needs.
This is aimed at a much wider market segment than our traditional services, Critically, this is a simplified version of our core service which at lower cost with simpler investment solutions.
For further enables us to offer advice to a much wider audience, at lower details, see the following section.
cost with simpler investment solutions.
While allowing us to serve Secondly, we have approved the development of an advicethis broader new client opportunity, it is also opening up a led proposition designed around the requirements of clients multi-generational service, introducing the children and even with more sophisticated and complex needs.
We will be expanding WealthPilot across our network during 2018.
See page 22 for a summary of progress and future focus Brewin Dolphin 17 www.
co. uk Chief Executives Review continued We have also taken early steps to develop a new service catering For intermediaries for clients with more complex needs.
This will allow us to provide Intermediaries drove around 90% of our net new fund growth additional solutions to sophisticated clients as part of a fully in the year.
In this channel, the advice role lies with the advice-led proposition.
The new service will be based and intermediary, while Brewin Dolphin undertakes the investment delivered in an entrepreneurial, standalone environment, where management role.
direct input from our clients will inform development of the We launched our intermediaries growth strategy in 2012, three proposition.
This will ensure that we continue both to meet clients years before that of the organisation as a whole.
This reflects evolving needs and to deliver the tangible value that they require.
the importance of maturity when it comes to strategic success, We continue to implement and extend the professional services demonstrating the long-term value of our approach.
offering we launched to solicitors and accountants in 2016.
Much of our success in this area during 2017 was driven by To ensure our wealth managers acquire the correct specialist the efforts of our 17-strong regionally based team of specialist knowledge, we have engaged the internal training services of business development managers.
These individuals help to several law and accountancy firms to work with more than 100 feed the sentiment and opinions of intermediaries back to our wealth managers from over 20 offices.
We ran an extensive corporate centre, ensuring we have an excellent understanding programme of external seminars, workshops and other events of the current state of the market.
Our intention is to continue to to encourage further uptake and build deeper relationships in develop long-term working relationships via our branch network this specialist market.
to mitigate some of the risks posed by sector contraction During the year, we used the benefit of our scale on behalf of and consolidation.
our clients in negotiating our unit purchasing power with We also responded positively in various ways to the most institutional funds.
This has reduced the cost of investments important objectives and requirements of intermediaries, within our client portfolios, with 1.8 billion of funds being revealed through continuous dialogue.
For example, we converted to lowest-cost units.
continued our strategy of expanding our proposition to meet We have enhanced our BPS non-advised solution, launching a a broader range of client needs.
This included the launch of digital on-boarding process which means that it now takes less a passive version of our Managed Portfolio Service MPS time to subscribe to the service.
BPS clients now have a fully Passive Plus, targeting those clients for whom a more complex transactional portal allowing them to top up, move and or bespoke service may not be necessary or cost-effective.
withdraw money online and create direct debits for regular This service harnesses the benefits of passive investing, which contributions at any time.
We have also looked to take intermediaries increasingly see as an attractive and streamlined advantage of the flexible ISA rules and have made the BPS ISA way to meet their clients investment needs.
The service has proved popular with around 1,000 have a good breadth of choice in how they work with Brewin accounts opened over the last 12 months.
MyBrewin, our new Dolphin, from MPS Passive Plus to the full bespoke digital portal for clients, is in the process of being rolled out.
Plans for the portal in the near future include providing access to documents online and continuing to deliver a brand enhancing experience via our digital front door.
Intermediaries drove around 90% of our net new fund growth in the year.
Brewin Dolphin 18 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The expertise, attitudes and behaviours of our people are our most important determinants of success.
We currently provide the intermediary bespoke discretionary For charities service to over 1,400 firms, with over 100 new firms signed up in 2017 saw us increase our range of trustee training and other the last year.
Our MPS offering has more than 600 firms invested.
We also commissioned an extensive research project, launched in Autumn 2017, on the subject The MPS Passive Plus launch provided further evidence of how of Charity Investment: What matters most?.
we listen and respond to intermediaries needs.
During 2017, use of our overall MPS offering by intermediaries and their We were successful in a number of major client pitches, clients increased, MPS represents 22% of our intermediaries particularly in the South East and North West of England.
This demonstrates the value of working with our This has helped us to balance the span of our charities business intermediary clients to help us understand changes in market across the country.
This has historically been weighted in favour demand and develop the right solutions.
of Scotland, where we continue to have a strong presence.
As at 30 September 2017, we hold over 3.3 billion on behalf We invested in a widespread programme of events and of charities and are currently the sixth largest UK charity communication to help intermediaries deepen their technical investment manager.
knowledge and understanding, with a particular focus on MiFID II.
This aims to help them strengthen their own client The year was also notable for a significant strengthening of relationships and increasingly value their partnership with co-operation and collaboration between teams, regions and Brewin Dolphin.
offices, sharing expertise to benefit our charity operations as a whole.
This is an indication of the ongoing cultural shift We are currently working with intermediaries to tailor MyBrewin, underway in our organisation.
our new digital portal to ensure that the digital offering meets their needs.
Brand growth Advice-led documentation on subjects of particular client interest see page 21 for more information.
co. uk Chief Executives Review continued In the same section, you can read about our Diversity & For our people Inclusion policy, through which we aim to gain diversity from In an increasingly advice-led organisation, the expertise, employing the most talented people from different backgrounds.
attitudes and behaviours of our people are our most important determinants of success.
All these factors add up to high levels of staff engagement.
I have already mentioned the exceptional results of our 2017 Our 2017 survey of employees shows that people are positively Engagement Survey, which highlights the tangible positive embracing the changes that are underway.
In fact, the rise of impact of such activities.
four percentage points to 82% in the engagement score of our employees, from last years already exceptional result, places us For our operational efficiency 6% ahead of the financial services industry benchmark of 76%.
Our strategy includes freeing up time for key staff, wherever See page 38 for further details.
possible and appropriate, by both increasing the automation of Our primary focus during 2017 has been on developing and manual business processes and enhancing the client proposition improving the skillsets of our core teams and providing the culture through the use of technology solutions such as client portals.
and working environment that best sustains service standards of During the year, technology investments played an ongoing role the highest quality.
Our focus on skills extends beyond in our journey to improve and increase standardisation technical matters alone courses on the psychology and collaboration across the organisation.
of money, for example, are helping advisers better Technology is an important enabler in improving understand client needs and ambitions.
collaboration between teams and individuals.
We have been active in searching for new talent As well as the benefits highlighted earlier, it allows 82% to join our business during the year.
Continuing geographically separate teams to work together our pursuit of the best people to give advice to and improves efficiency through Employee clients, we bolstered our financial planning shared resources.
engagement capabilities with 26 new hires ranging from score This is just one element of our ongoing commitment apprentices to highly qualified paraplanners and to introducing cost-effective new solutions to support financial planners.
Combined with manageable our people in every area of the business, from further levels of attrition, these hires contributed to a small developing our new HR system to moving to a new trade increase in client-facing headcount.
Key senior hires elsewhere in the organisation included our new Our new Order Management System trade execution system Chief Operating Officer and Company Secretary, while has standardised processes across the Group, improving investments in our technology team increased headcount in that operating efficiency and controls while providing a strong basis area by 10.
Our total headcount saw a marginal rise of 2% to for compliance with regulatory changes such as MiFID II.
The new client portal, MyBrewin, will improve our clients digital We also made an important investment in developing our experience and enable operational efficiencies through features client-facing expertise for the future, with the launch of our such as Documents Online.
Within our digital programme, Financial Planning Academy.
With an initial cohort of 16 aspiring we have continued to adopt cloud technologies and have individuals, this is a key investment in our ability to provide successfully moved and tested our disaster recovery capability long-term value for our clients and so enhance Group in the Microsoft Cloud.
See page 39 for further details on this and further We are also rolling out a new suite of workspace tools to development initiatives, including our graduate and emerging provide an improved and consistent experience, enhanced talent programmes, executive leadership development, client-engagement capabilities, greater collaboration and flexible performance management and learning opportunities.
The new tools are also enhancing device and system security, supporting our ongoing commitment and investment in maintaining a robust cybersecurity control environment to protect clients, employees and Group information.
Brewin Dolphin 20 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information The world we face contains many geopolitical uncertainties but we will continue to address and mitigate these by planning for the long-term, as we have for more than 250 years.
Our regulators have issued a significant quantity of regulatory Looking ahead: 2018 and beyond guidance and change over the last 12-18 months, resulting in The world we face contains many geopolitical uncertainties but some key regulatory projects for Brewin Dolphin.
MiFID II is a we will continue to address and mitigate these by planning for key piece of regulation that will substantially change European the long-term, as we have for more than 250 years.
We have had a project in place for the last two years to meet the 3 January 2018 implementation date.
Some challenges are imminent, of course, such as the The Group continues to make substantial investment in systems introduction of MiFID II and the General Data Protection and processes to achieve compliance.
Additionally, the FCA Regulations GDPR.
However, we believe that organisations requires investment firms to comply with the Senior Manager ofscale, such as Brewin Dolphin, should regard these and Certification Regime SMCR during 2018.
The Group has developments as an opportunity to differentiate.
For us an established project in place and continues to make good transparency is an important element of a high-quality progress towards compliance before the effective date.
When it comes to Brexit, our view is somewhat clearer than For communities itwas in 2016.
As a UK-based entity, we will maintain close The ways in which we work to support communities, on a oversight on Brexits likely effects on our wider operating national and local basis, fully reflect how we behave in our client environment, to ensure that we are prepared and positioned and employee relationships.
This in turn reflects our inherent totake appropriate measures to address any eventualities cultural imperative of always doing what is right for that emerge.
Meanwhile, we believe that momentum remains with us as we The Board and I believe that 2017 was a highly significant year pursue our ambitious growth strategy.
We are confident that our for Corporate Responsibility CR at Brewin Dolphin.
Our advice-led approach for direct clients is fit for the future, as the national approach of supporting education and employability advice gap coincides with a growing market need for advice.
initiatives resonates with clients and shows them what kind of We believe there remains an important window of opportunity organisation we are.
This runs alongside the CR activities of our before banks and other major financial institutions re-enter the offices, which select and manage charitable and other initiatives financial advice market.
with a local and regional focus.
Our continuous ambition to succeed means that we are We believe we lead the wealth management sector in CR, preparing for an increasingly competitive future environment and I am confident that we are moving in the right direction to while making the most of current growth opportunities.
There is still progress to be made, however, event, we firmly believe in the long-term value of skilled and and we will maintain focused discipline within this important area.
engaged people giving high-quality advice as part of a close For brand growth client relationship.
This was another year of high-quality marketing activities aiming So, by continuing to invest in the capabilities of our people to attract awareness, interest and contact from potential clients.
today, we are also invested for the future.
They included the continuation of our carefully targeted Gardening Club, which in 2017 included gardens at the new RHS show at Chatsworth as well as Chelsea itself.
We harnessed the David Nicol burgeoning interest in cycling, with the launch of the Brewin Chief Executive Dolphin Velo series of four road events in England and Scotland.
28 November 2017 Other initiatives included the continuation of placing advice-led articles in media on subjects of particular client interest.
We also piloted a digital marketing exercise designed to drive down cost per contact.
We will be building on this in the coming year.
