06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 2017 was a very productive year in which all of our businesses made significant progress and delivered an excellent set of group results.
With over 60% of our sales and profits now generated outside the UK, the headline results benefited from sterling A VERY PRODUCTIVE YEAR weakness on translation.
Nevertheless, growth was very strong on a constant currency basis with revenue and GEORGE WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE adjusted operating profit ahead by 6% and 13% respectively.
Over the last few years AB Sugar has taken major steps to transform its business with the sale of the cane sugar operations in south China this year, the move to full ownership of Illovo last year and the benefits delivered by the performance improvement programme over many years.
It is pleasing to report a substantial increase in Sugar profit this year which benefited from all of these initiatives and an increase in EU sugar prices.
Illovo is making good progress with its accelerated programme of commercial development and the delivery of further production efficiencies.
In the EU, we have established a low cost business which is positioned to exploit the market opportunities and associated freedom to export, following the abolition of sugar quotas in October this year.
In Grocery, Twinings Ovaltine, ACH in the US and George Weston Foods in Australia all increased adjusted operating profit.
However, a difficult trading environment in the UK bread market led to a decline in revenues at Allied Bakeries and it sustained a loss.
We are continuing to invest in our brands and are working closely with our customers to improve the profitability of our bakery business.
AB Agri continued with its strategy of expanding the value-adding elements of its business.
Ingredients achieved another strong profit and margin increase driven by further cost reduction in AB Mauri and excellent performances from speciality ingredients.
The expansion of Primarks selling space continued apace this year and trading was excellent, particularly over the summer, delivering strong increases in market share.
Our determination to be the best value on the high street drove the decision not to pass on to our customers the higher input costs arising from sterling weakness against the US dollar.
The gross impact of this on Primarks margin was, to some extent, mitigated by the work of the buying Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report H S E R F A S T N E I 07 and merchandising teams and margin declined by less than expected at 2017 HAS BEEN A BUSY YEAR the beginning of the year to 10.4%.
Notwithstanding this highly successful year, Primark constantly seeks better FOR OUR BUSINESSES ways of delivering value to customers, be that through store design and GROCERY location, stock availability, or enhancing its reputation for on-trend fashion.
REFRESHING OUR BRANDS The Primark website and social media are playing an ever more important role in the relationship with our customers in driving awareness of our products and footfall in our stores.
Primark will continue to expand its selling space 19 across all its countries of operation with another strong programme of new store openings scheduled for the coming year.
SUGAR Implications of the EU referendum THE SCIENCE OF The consequences for the group of the UKs decision to leave the EU should SEED PROTECTION be seen in the context of the diversity of our operations and geographical footprint, combined with a business model that has discrete Primark supply chains for the UK and Eurozone and, 27 wherever possible, aligns food production with the end markets for our products.
Changes in legislation and trade AGRICULTURE agreements provide significant EVOLUTION THROUGH opportunities for the food industry to replace imported food and build export INNOVATION markets and, for UK agricultural policy particularly, they have the potential to benefit our group.
We are engaged at all levels with a number of UK Government departments to ensure 33 that the full range of opportunities and risks, as they affect us, are recognised.
We are pleased with the Governments INGREDIENTS commitment that least developed EMBRACING TECHNOLOGY countries will not face an increase in tariffs on their exports to the UK after it leaves the EU.
This will provide benefits both for UK consumers and trade with these countries which plays an important part in securing the livelihoods 39 of local workforces.
In common with many other businesses, we share a concern about the risk of abrupt changes to the UKs customs procedures.
We RETAIL therefore welcome the Governments ITS ALL ABOUT intention to have a transition period THE EXPERIENCE beyond March 2019 in which to implement the necessary systems and processes.
George Weston 46 Chief Executive Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 D E R G N I G N I V I G
