Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 8 Chief Executives Statement consistently high levels of service, building deep and sustainable relationships with clients and intermediaries.
This client-focused approach is supported by a prudent funding, liquidity and capital position, which ensures we can continue to support our clients and deliver returns to shareholders through all stages of the financial cycle.
Market Environment Despite the ongoing uncertainty around the economic and political outlook in the UK, market conditions for our businesses have remained benign overall, with continued low impairment levels in the Banking division and supportive trading conditions for both Winterflood and Asset Management.
Competition in many of our markets remains significant, reflecting the current favourable lending environment with low impairments and low cost of funding.
Preben Prebensen, Chief Executive Accordingly, our growth rate has slowed in parts of the Banking business, notably asset and motor finance, as we continue to prioritise our prudent underwriting, strong margins and good returns.
The value of To date, we have seen minimal impact on the group from the UK referendum vote to leave the European Union.
With over 90% of our business in the UK, Consistency our direct exposure to European markets is limited.
However, we are mindful of the potential longer-term impact on the wider UK economy and our customers, and continue to monitor developments carefully.
I am pleased to report another good performance for the Protecting the Model group in the 2017 financial year, with higher profits across Our strategic priority is always to protect our established and successful business all three divisions.
This means maintaining the prudent underwriting, strong margins and conservative financial position which Overall, both statutory and adjusted profit by 4% and Retail Finance was have supported our business through operating profit increased 13%.
Earnings broadly flat, consistent with the current the years, and ensuring that we manage per share grew 2% to 128.3p 2016: stage in the cycle.
125.7p, and 3% to 131.7p 2016: 128.4p on an adjusted basis, reflecting the first Winterfloods operating profit increased In the current more competitive full-year impact of the bank corporation nearly 50% to 28.1 million 2016: environment it is particularly important to tax surcharge this year.
Despite the 19.0million, supported by active retail maintain the prudence and discipline of surcharge, return on opening equity has investor trading throughout the year.
In the last year, the net remained strong at 17.9% 2016:18.9%.
Asset Management made good progress, interest margin has remained strong and with significant growth in client assets well ahead of the industry at just over 8%, The Banking division has continued its anda 21% increase in adjusted and we have maintained prudent and good performance, with adjusted operatingprofit.
consistent loan to value ratios across all operating profit up 9% and continued our businesses.
As a result, we remain strong returns.
Property Finance had a In an evolving and often challenging confident in the quality of our loan book, particularly good year with operating market and regulatory environment, we and the sustainability of our lending.
profit up 24%, supported by continued remain committed to our established demand and low bad debts.
Commercial business model, which builds on the Finance increased adjusted operating expertise of our people to deliver Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 9 We note increased market focus on the We are now initiating a programme of In Asset Management, we remain motor finance market, particularly around investment to enhance our offering and focused on driving growth organically the recent growth in new car financing operations in the motor finance business.
and through the selective acquisition of and personal contract plans PCPs.
Our We are also in the early stages of teams and businesses which fit with our strong focus on credit quality and implementing a new treasury system, strategy.
In the last year we achieved relatively small proportion of PCPs leave which will allow us to improve good organic growth, with net inflows us well positioned in this market, but we functionality for customers and extend at9% and good momentum in all our continue to monitor developments closely.
our range of deposit products.
Overall, managed assets grew 11% to 8.9 billion.
Total We are equally committed to maintaining In Asset Management, we have client assets increased 13% to 11.2 prudent funding, capital and liquidity, completed the successful migration of billion, following the completion of two particularly in light of ongoing regulatory clients to a single technology platform, small IFAacquisitions in the year.
In the last year, we have which will allow us to further improve experienced several regulatory changes both client experience and operating Outlook impacting the groups capital requirements, efficiency.
We are also looking at ways Although current market conditions including a significant increase in risk to optimise adviser productivity while remain stable overall, the longer-term weighted assets in our property finance maintaining our excellent levels of economic outlook and impact of Brexit business.
Our strong capital position has clientservice.
on our customers and wider markets enabled us to successfully absorb these remain uncertain.
Against this backdrop, changes while maintaining headroom to Extending the Model we are fully committed to our proven regulatory requirements.
Finally, we are always looking for ways business model and we remain confident to extend our business model, both in in our ability to trade successfully We apply the same conservative risk existing markets and by entering new, through the cycle.
appetite and disciplined risk specialist segments.
management processes across our In Banking we remain focused on market-facing business.
This is reflected As expected, we are seeing stronger maintaining our underwriting discipline in the consistent trading profitability of growth in those businesses which are and strong margins.
The competitive Winterflood, which had a particularly less exposed to competition, such as environment remains challenging for successful year with only one trading premium and property finance, and we some of our businesses, and we loss day.
have continued to see good growth in continue to monitor market conditions Ireland.
As a result, the loan book carefully for any change in demand or Across all of our businesses we have increased 7% overall to 6.9 billion credit performance.
reviewed processes and systems to 31 July 2016: 6.4 billion, despite enhance our protection against cyber ongoing competition in other parts Winterfloods good performance has risk, and we are well positioned to meet of the business.
continued but as a daily trading business the requirements of MiFID 2 and the it remains sensitive to any change in General Data Protection Regulation We are progressing our early stage trading conditions.
which come into effect in 2018. initiatives, including the launch this year of our technology services business In Asset Management we have made Improving the Model within Commercial Finance.
In May we further progress in the last year and The strong profitability of our business also completed the acquisition of Novitas remain focused on growing thebusiness allows us to invest through the cycle, Loans, a specialist business focused on for the long-term.
andwe continue to make significant loans to law firms and their clients.
investment in our client offering, in our Overall, while market conditions will operating efficiency, and in training and We are now in the early stages of clearly vary, our businesses remain developing our people.
At the same time, exploring opportunities for asset finance wellpositioned.
we are strongly focused on maintaining in Germany, where we have recently cost control in the underlying business, obtained regulatory approval, but will and despite a number of ongoing proceed cautiously to ensure that any Preben Prebensen investment initiatives the expense lending fits with our strict risk and return Chief Executive income ratio in the Banking division has criteria.
26 September 2017 Winterflood has continued to make the This year we completed the first phase most of existing trading opportunities ofinvestment in our premium finance and delivered a good result driven by business, where we have significantly higher trading income.
We have also enhanced our service to insurance made good progress with Winterflood brokers supported by a new contact Business Services, which provides centre and customer portal.
This outsourced dealing, custody and investment has already resulted in settlement services to institutions.
