Strategic report Chief Executives statement OUR COMPANY WORD OF THE YEAR FOR 2018 IS OPPORTUNITY Q&A with Martin Hellawell Chief Executive Did any technology area or business line particularlystand out for you in 2017?
All our major business lines showed good growth in the Im delighted by how the year.
Our security and services businesses were perhaps Company has performed the two standout performers, delivering very strong growth.
in2017, and our momentum Our security business has been one of our key strengths into the new financial year for many years now.
We saw strong underlying growth in this area, which was further assisted by purchases related isstrong.
to organisations preparing themselves for General Data Protection Regulation GDPR compliance, which will be enforced from 25 May 2018.
This is a significant challenge Overall how would you describe the for the majority of our customers and there is a lot more performance oftheCompany last year?
work required in this area, which is therefore a good I think we had a very satisfactory financial year 2017 opportunity for us moving forward.
General security risks andIam pleased with the outcome.
continue to grow in complexity and frequency and are now a major boardroom priority, highlighted by high profile Revenue growth was really strong at 24%.
Im always events like the WannaCry attacks.
Softcat was particularly mostinterested in our gross profit growth and that was proactive in advising and assisting customers on these equally pleasing for me, being up 13% despite last year types of threats.
containing a one-off benefit that we knew would not repeat.
So, excluding that, in underlying terms growth in We have invested significantly in our own services gross profit was 16%.
Our growth would indicate that once capability and we continue to work with a number of third again we have taken further market share in our sector.
party organisations to complement our internal offering.
Particularly in areas such as hybrid cloud migration and The gross profit growth resulted in 10% adjusted EBIT mobility, in many cases customers are looking to Softcat growth 16% underlying, i. e. excluding the 2016 one-off toprovide a complete solution rather than trying to stitch procurement-related profit benefit, while we continue various technology components together themselves.
That, combined with another Wecompleted a large number of projects in these areas year ofstrong cash generation, resulted in the special using tried and tested expertise and templates.
dividend weve proposed alongside these results.
But time doesnt stand still and we are now focused ontheopportunity to do it all again in 2018.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Chief Executives statement continued 13,000 12,200 customers in FY16 10.5k 9.9k GP per customer in FY16 Once in the organisation, we strive to be a great place to work and to fully motivate our employees.
While we are well known for this and have received many accolades You have six branches now: how did they each perform?
over the years, we are far from complacent and as the Yes, thats right: we have branches in Marlow, London, business gets bigger the employee engagement challenge Manchester, Leeds, Glasgow and Bristol but have also doesnt become any easier.
Last year in our annual employee recently announced that we intend to open a seventh location engagement survey we recorded our highest ever employee on the South Coast in the first half of this new financial year.
net promoter scores and our score for personal morale was exceptionally high, and opportunities for training and All existing branches met expectations and achieved development is our most improved area over the last positive growth.
For me the standout performers were fiveyears.
We very much enjoyed our first full financial year in Scotland and are delighted with the If we employ the right people and they are fully engaged number of new Scottish customers who are trading with with the business, we believe our employees will provide Softcat since we became established there.
We believe this is the key toour success and providing exceptional service is at the What about the markets you serve?
Again, we arent perfect and know The SMB and mid-market remains our largest segment that while once again our customer satisfaction survey and, despite our market leadership position, continues produced outstanding results and our customers continued togrow very nicely from a very large base.
Our public to increase the amount of business they do with Softcat, sector business saw very strong growth again this year we can still get better and we are very much on it, which and the enterprise segment also outpaced overall Company was our Company phrase of the year in 2017 and is the growth and its pleasing to see us tapping into that opportunity.
theme of this Annual Report.
The vast majority of our business is in the UK but we assist an increasing number of our customers with their Which accolades and milestones requirements outside the UK.
of note have you received this year?
I was delighted Softcat was named as the overall largest How have you performed against Microsoft licensing partner in the UK and we also received your business modelthis year?
awards from a number of other vendors.
These include In essence, our business model begins by recruiting large Partner of the Year awards from HPE, Mimecast, Veeam numbers of new employees into the organisation to help and others.
support and further augment our growth.
Most sales people join straight from university or at early stages of What is your latest view on their career.
This has been supplemented by a successful cloudand how it is affecting you?
apprenticeship scheme which has been recognised with It is a very consistent view with what we have been saying anumber of awards this year.
We take more experienced for the last five years and there are several levels to this.
people into the organisation for other positions, notably We see an increasing proportion of our software licensing inservices.
Finding the right people to join the Company business transition to a cloud-based platform.
For example isnever easy and perhaps our biggest challenge as a we may previously have sold Microsoft licensing agreements business, but we had another excellent year of recruiting for Office which were installed by customers on their sites.
excellent new talent into the organisation.
Today, many customers are choosing to consume Office from the cloud with Office 365.
8 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 99% customer satisfaction rating In terms of customers running their own legacy applications Consequently Softcat sees a growing opportunity to many have come to the conclusion that they should continue develop our services and support business by helping running on their own infrastructure, while a preference is customers migrate to a hybrid and public cloud often given to consuming new applications from the cloud.
We can then work with customers to support This results in the majority of our customers favouring and manage those environments.
This is effectively an some form of hybrid IT, using some combination of their opportunity to augment our already very large subscription own infrastructure and the cloud.
licensing business, a part of the business weve been well known for throughout our history and received many Some customers may effectively outsource the management plaudits for.
and possibly ownership of that infrastructure to a third party.
This is often known as the private cloud and a small part The move to the cloud reduces the hardware opportunity ofSoftcats business is running private cloud environments as customers need fewer servers and storage as a result.
But this impact shouldnt be overly exaggerated as these transitions always take longer than anyone predicts and For reasons of control, security, cost and the difficulty of the requirement for computer and storage capacity continue porting legacy applications to the cloud, customers own to increase exponentially as data volumes further expand, infrastructure and private cloud infrastructure still has its and with new waves of technology such as artificial place.
Indeed we have seen several instances of customers intelligence this will further accelerate.
moving back from the public cloud to the private cloud environment.
Overall, however, we see a continuing trend As a Company which has evolved from the software world, from customers to transition towards the public cloud for we still have a relatively low market share in the datacentre an increasing number of workloads.
Softcat has subsequently infrastructure business.
By helping customers intelligently grown a strong Microsoft Azure business over recent migrate to the hybrid cloud world and by taking share from years and is working with a number of customers on the our competition, we believe that we can continue to grow Amazon AWS platform.
our business in this segment despite the changing market.
Thats exactly what we did very successfully in the last financial year.
In terms of what you do, what do you want tobefamous for?
We define our business into three broad categories workplace technology, which is all the standard technology on or around a customers desk: networking and security: and cloud and datacentre.
All areas are affording us plenty of opportunity and we continue to expand our offering in each.
In the workspace area our managed print offering has gained significant traction.
Last year we expanded Strong performance from our ourrange of extended support services particularly in new offerings such as thenetworking area and this has added considerable incremental business and profitability for the Company.
managed print and contractual support services.
In particular, we want tobe the best in cloud and traditional subscription software.
We want to be the go-to security company in the market and the partner of choice for cloud and datacentre.
Theres plenty to do but were well on ourway.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 WERE ON IT Chief Executives statement continued And your transition to Chairman?
How is that going The opportunity is there for the taking but we are well and when will the new Chief Executive be announced?
aware that only constant hard work, hunger and excellent execution will allow us to take it.
I havent started transitioning to the role of Chairman and I am still fully focused and totally committed to being Chief We can extend that opportunity by considering further Executive of Softcat until a new Chief Executive is on board geographical expansion both locally and internationally and in place.
That will take the time it takes and we are not and by considering acquisitions.
We will continue, as we working to any set deadline.
That said, the search for the always have done, to consider both extremely carefully new Chief Executive is progressing.
I am delighted with the and cautiously.
way the organisation has responded tothe proposed change, I would like to thank our employees for taking the opportunity fully embracing the continuity provided by my transition to last year and for all their tremendous support, commitment, the Chairman role and the opportunity to kick on under hard work and camaraderie during 2017 and over my last new leadership.
I would also like to thank our very I very much look forward to passing the baton of leading valued customers, who continue to be a pleasure to work Softcat to my successor and to my continued involvement with and who keep pushing us on to ever greater things.
And finally I would like to thank our business partners, who continue to give Softcat a tremendous amount of support How do you see the opportunity ahead?
for which we are extremely grateful.
While we have performed well for many years now and have enjoyed 48 quarters of top-line and bottom-line growth, And to close, Martin, how has the opportunity ahead of us feels larger than ever.
If you financial year 2018 started for you?
just take the list of the top 100 VARs in the UK and put our Our financial year starts on 1 August and as I write this we turnover against the aggregated total, that gives us c. 6.5% are approximately ten weeks into the new year.
And theres a lot more than 100 VARs out early days and there is still all to play for but we are where there.
So that gives us at least 93.5% of the market still to we would like to be at this stage.
Our sales force strength and the breadth and depth of our capability have never been better and theres great momentum in the Company.
Despite questions around the economy, ourexit from the EU and public sector policy, the market for what we do feels quite buoyant.
Were lucky to Martin Hellawell have avery broad portfolio and our customer-centricity Chief Executive and flexibility allow usto move quickly to the areas in the 18 October 2017 market where there is most demand, which makes us far less vulnerable to more challenging technology segments.
