Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 CHIE F E X EC U T I V ES R E V IE W S U S TA IN A BLE G R O W TH A ND AT TR A C TI V E R E T UR N S A R E W H AT W ER E A B O U T. W EV E MO V E D F O R WA R D O N R E P O S I T I O NING T HE P O R TF O LI O A ND E S TA BLI S HIN G THE O R G A NI S AT I O N A L B U IL DING BL O CK S T O D E L I V E R O N O UR A MBI T I O N. ANDY REYNOLDS SMITH CHIEF EXECUTIVE 14 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Sustainable growth and attractive Smiths has seen a year of good R E V E NUE returns are what were about and weve progress, amidst a world of DOWN 1% moved forward on repositioning the uncertainty and an unprecedented portfolio and establishing the pace of technology development.
organisational building blocks to deliver 3,280M on our ambition.
This is helping to I set out my ambition of establishing establish Smiths as a high-performing Smiths as one of the worlds leading diversified Group with high-quality technology companies in September businesses that are well-positioned in 2016, and weve spent the past 12 months growing markets, with active portfolio doing what we said we were going to do.
management, a clear operating model, FREE CASH-FLOW and a culture of relentless execution and FY2017 performance continuous improvement.
We delivered a good performance in 370M FY2017, with underlying revenue broadly Outperforming our chosen markets in line with the prior year.
We saw growth The repositioning of the business for across the portfolio offset by John growth through organic and inorganic Cranes oil & gas business and in Smiths investment is well underway and we Medical due to market challenges in John have made excellent progress.
With Crane and a delay in some new product the sale of four non-core assets and launches in Smiths Medical.
Group the completion of the Morpho Detection revenue grew 11% on a reported basis, acquisition creating a true world benefiting from foreign exchange, and in leader in this market around 75% of particular the strength of the US dollar, our portfolio is now well positioned by partially offset by the impact of four market and competitiveness, up from divestitures and the acquisition of 60% eighteen months ago, and we expect Morpho Detection.
further progress in the coming year.
The underlying quality of our businesses Our goal is a portfolio of businesses and the increasing impact of the Smiths that hold sustainable top three Excellence System supported a strong positions in attractive markets and headline operating profit performance of demonstrates the key characteristics 1 589m, up 3% on an underlying basis of a Smiths business: asset-light and and up 16% on a reported basis.
The competitive operations, technology Groups headline operating profit margin differentiation, a high proportion of increased 70 basis points on a reported aftermarket revenues and increasing basis, with margin expansion in all digitisation.
Organic growth will always divisions reflecting our focus on be my top priority but we expect to operational efficiency and the upgrading run a carefully considered parallel of the portfolio.
path of acquisition and divestiture to accelerate our repositioning globally.
Strategy update Weve made good progress against our An example of our work to reposition strategic objectives of outperforming our the portfolio is the focusing and chosen markets and delivering worldrestructuring of Smiths Interconnect.
class competitiveness, supported by our strong financial framework.
AROUND 75% OF OUR PORTFOLIO IS NOW W E LLP O S ITI O N E D BY MARKE T AND COMPE TITIVENESS, UP FROM 60% EIGHTEEN MONTHS AGO 15 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 C HIE F E X E C U T I V ES R E V IE W C O N T I N U E D CONTINUING STATUTORY EARNINGS PER SHARE 144.1P D I V ID E ND 43.25P fide VELOPING A CULTURE OF INNOVATION WITH AN ECOSYSTEM TO DRIVE FA STER fide VELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALISATION OF NE W PRODUCTS IS CRUCIAL TO OUR SUCCESS TODAY AND TOMORROW We sold non-core assets representing whatever their industry, value speed the Group.
Results are already starting to around 40% of revenue and the and efficiency, and thats the essence of come, with around 40m in procurement remaining core is now positioned as a the Smiths Excellence System SES.
savings and an 85m reduction in faster-growing leader in high-speed working capital of which 52m is secure connectivity for demanding SES gives us a shared operating model reduction in total stock over the past year, markets such as space, defence and that will help us to apply best practice to helping us to fund investment in growth.
commercial aerospace, and ready drive speed, efficiency and a culture of And Im convinced there is more to follow to develop further.
There are similar continuous improvement, right across over the next 12 months and beyond.
examples elsewhere in the portfolio.
We have also increased our focus on WE HAVE INCRE A SED key higher-growth regions, including relocating one of our Executive OUR R&D SPEND TO Committee members, Roland 4.6% OF RE VENUE AND Carter, to Asia as Smiths Group CRE ATED A CENTR AL President of Asia Pacific to head up INNOVATION FUND our growth drive in the region.
TO BUILD DIGITAL Driving world-class competitiveness C A P A B I LIT Y As we increasingly focus the Group on the most attractive end markets with good long-term profitable growth prospects, it is critical that we establish the capabilities to ensure relentless execution.
This has been a priority during the last year and we have been driving three areas: operational excellence, innovation and people.
Many years in the hard-fought automotive world have taught me that all customers, 16 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Technology is moving faster than ever This is not just about planning for the performance in FY2018 to be weighted before and were committed to being future we are already generating towards the second half.
Growth in at the cutting edge.
Its essential meaningful revenue from digital.
John Cranes non-oil and gas markets, that were technology leaders, Nor is it just digital technology to as well as an increase in aftermarket defining new ways to bring value to complement existing businesses its activities, is expected to more than offset our customers and developing new about defining new business models for the challenging market conditions in business models for the future.
the future and ensuring we are ahead oil and gas.
We expect the introduction on the capabilities they will require.
of new products during the year to Developing a culture of innovation with an support a gradual improvement in ecosystem to drive faster development I was also pleased to announce our Smiths Medical.
In Smiths Detection we and commercialisation of new products strategic partnership with Microsoft anticipate a strong second half-driven is crucial to our success today and to further accelerate our marketby the transportation market, which will tomorrow.
Our Group-wide innovation leading artificial intelligencegenerate good growth for the year as a 3 framework, i, will consistently drive based detection capability in the whole.
In Smiths Interconnect, our focus increased, smarter investment in R&D ports and borders market.
on fewer, higher-growth end markets and convert it into sales more quickly.
I will support further good progress in believe that it will differentiate us in our The final, critical area of focus for this division, while Flex-Tek is expected markets, make our customers happier us is people our one true source of to deliver continued steady growth.
We have sustainable competitive advantage.
already increased our R&D spend to We are increasingly confident that were 4.6% of revenue and created a central Our people plan is aimed at building establishing the operating model for Innovation Fund to build digital and other a learning organisation that attracts, excellence and leadership capability disruptive technology capabilities such retains, develops, engages and to deliver long-term sustainable as 3D printing and nano technology and inspires the very best people around growth and attractive returns.
create critical mass where individual the world to deliver our ambition.
divisional efforts would be sub-scale.
Weve made good progress during Dividend the year, including launching a new The Board is recommending a final We have announced two digital forges, leadership development programme dividend per share of 29.70p, giving a with one in Silicon Valley and another in partnership with UCLA Anderson total dividend for the year of 43.25p, an planned in London, to help accelerate Executive Education, a new approach increase of 3% year-on-year.
The final our digital transformation.
These to measuring employee engagement, dividend will be paid on 17 November forges are global centres of excellence, a Group-wide communication plan to to shareholders registered at close helping us define new digital business help everyone understand the part of business on 20 October.
The exmodels and build Group-wide capability they play, and the adoption of our new dividend date is 19 October.
in areas of focus including artificial Smiths Way of working, including intelligence, analytics and data security.
shared values and approaches to Weve made good progress on our how we do things across the world.
journey to establishing Smiths as one of the worlds leading technology Those shared values of integrity, respect, companies over the past year ownership, customer focus and passion and Id like to sincerely thank my underpin our commitment to doing the 22,000 colleagues around the world right thing, every time, no matter our for their dedication, contribution role.
Keeping our people safe is our and absolute professionalism.
I top priority and Im particularly proud look forward to reporting further WEVE MADE GOOD of our performance this year, with our progress in the coming months.
PROGRESS ON OUR lowest ever Recordable Incident Rate.
JOURNE Y TO That said, I truly believe that any injury ANDY REYNOLDS SMITH ESTABLISH SMITHS A S is one too many and we will continue CHIEF EXECUTIVE ONE OF THE WORLDS to strive for our goal of zero harm.
LE ADING TECHNOLOGY Looking ahead C O MP A NIE S The progress delivered in executing our strategy through portfolio repositioning and disciplined organic and inorganic investment has ensured that were well positioned for the Group to return to growth in FY2018.
As in previous years, we expect Group 17
