CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW At Go-Ahead, we care about every journey made on our services In a year of remarkable political uncertainty, one of the few steady reference points has been the enduring need for transport services against a background of evolving public policy objectives.
As one of the UKs largest providers of public transport, Go-Ahead plays a vital role in building a thriving economy and connecting communities.
By providing essential bus and rail services, we help people connect with each other and get where they want to go: enabling access to jobs, education, retail and leisure.
The role of public transport in delivering public policy has also come to the fore in the debate over air quality.
As the operator of the UKs largest all-electric bus fleet, one of the largest hybrid bus fleets, andwith 94% of rail fleet being electric, Go-Ahead has contributed the lessons of practical experience to this debate.
The pace of technological innovation has rapidly increased in recent years, presenting both a challenge and an opportunity.
During the year, we have used technology to make our services more attractive and responsive to changing consumer needs.
Contactless payment systems have quickly become part of the UK retail environment, with around three quarters of the population now using this technology in their daily lives.
The roll-out of the latest contactless technology Through our strategy, we is well underway across our bus operations.
This provides the opportunity for more aim to deliver excellent sophisticated fare structures such as customer service, fare-capping.
returns for shareholders More information on page 24 and value for all our Demographics and consumer priorities are stakeholders.
As we keep listening to our David Brown, customers, hearing their views and asking Group Chief Executive more questions, were better placed to serve their existing and future needs.
Younger city-dwellers appear less interested in the commitment of owning and running cars: while at the other end of the age spectrum, agrowing population is more active in later life.
These changes in society present us with opportunities to meet the needs of changing lifestyles and habits, helping people live fuller lives while increasing demand for our services.
16 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information customers expect.
Ourprimary aim is to In London bus, where we remain the Our businesses markets largest operator, we delivered improve service for passengers and we are Overall profitability for the year was in line resolute in this commitment.
revenue growth linked to the timing of with our expectations.
Group operating profit contract wins and improved performance was 150.6m 2016 restated: 162.6m, down More information on page 20 against Quality Incentive Contract targets.
In 7.4% as a result of falling rail division profits.
a competitive market, we continue to maintain strong financial discipline and The UK rail network is one of the busiest in Bus utilise our strategically located depots the world, with the number of annual efficiently to maximise value.
Close Bus division profits were level against the passenger journeys more than doubling prior year.
Strong performance in some of partnership working with Transport for since privatisation in the 1990s.
This is why London TfL is important to our success in our operating areas was offset by nonsignificant investment is being made in recurring costs, challenging trading London.
During the year, we engaged in infrastructure improvement projects.
The discussions with TfL around key market conditions and declining passenger volumes Thameslink Programme, which Southeastern in other regions.
This performance was issues such as tackling congestion, and GTR are jointly delivering with key improving air quality and driving delivered against a backdrop of wider bus industry partners, was designed to ensure industry challenges, with national regional passenger numbers.
network capacity grows and reliability passenger volumes down 2.6% and pressure improves.
Unfortunately, as with any large on London bus volumes as congestion scale improvement programme, some Rail continues to increase.
disruption is inevitable before the long term Our rail division delivered a mixed benefits to improve the daily journeys of performance in the year.
In regional bus, declining passenger volumes hundreds of thousands of people in the North East affected our financial London Midland performed very well, driving are delivered.
To drive revenue and control up passenger volumes, revenue, customer cost, the local management team responded More information on pages 22 to 31 satisfaction and employee engagement.
to by performing detailed route analysis, During the year, we invested in technology restructuring timetables, and introducing toimprove the customer experience with a contactless payments and a new customer Supporting our strategy free onboard entertainment system and app.
Additionally, our business in Oxford had freeWiFi available to three quarters of We have a simple and clear strategy: to a challenging year with several bus accidents passengers.
In August 2017, we learnt we protect and grow our core business, win new putting pressure on costs, local authority had been unsuccessful in our bid to retain bus and rail contracts and develop for future cuts reducing revenue and ongoing retail these routes under the new West Midlands transport needs.
Through this strategy we development in the city centre affecting franchise.
London Midland and its people aim to deliver excellent service for our passenger volumes.
The management team have been part of our Groups rail business customers, returns for our shareholders and in Oxford is engaging with the local authority for ten years.
In that time we have delivered value for all of Go-Aheads stakeholders.
and retail developer ahead of the scheduled significant improvements across the entire opening of a large new shopping centre in network which have seen London Midland More information on page 14 central Oxford in October 2017, to try to transformed into an award-winning franchise ensure good ease of access to the shopping with high levels of employee engagement centre for bus passengers.
We are Protect and grow the core and customer satisfaction.
While were disappointed that the local authority is not disappointed not to retain the franchise, Go-Ahead has been a leading bus and rail currently enabling adequate bus access.
As were confident that we submitted a robust, operator in the UK for three decades, well as providing an attractive retail and high quality and price-disciplined bid.
providing value for money travel to people leisure offering, the completion of the work across the country.
Our core bus business will reduce disruption in the city centre, Southeasterns operational performance was provides stable profit and cash flow, while improving journey times and very good, resulting in the most improved our rail operations offer strong cash flow and service reliability.
customer satisfaction score of all UK rail high return on capital.
We are committed to operators, up from 72% to 82%.
Despite this Go-Aheads regional bus operation received ensuring high levels of customer service significant improvement, passenger growth the highest levels of customer satisfaction in andstrong financial performance from slowed putting pressure on revenue towards the sector, up to 90% in the latest survey: thesecore businesses through our local, the end of the year, with Southeastern exceeding the satisfaction scores of some of customer-focused business units.
We are research suggesting travel habits Britains best-loved brands.
Go North East focused on delivering change in five key are changing.
achieved a score of 91%, up from 89% the areas, to drive sustainable revenue growth year before, having delivered improvements In GTR, industrial relations issues affected and cost control to protect and grow our core in punctuality, quality and journey times.
our customers, our colleagues and our business for thelong term.
We apologise to our Southern Our local bus businesses are focused on passengers who have been inconvenienced More information on page 18 improving customer experience, including for many months by disruption caused by making it easier to pay for travel.
Service improvements year, the latest contactless technology was began to be realised in the second half of the introduced across a number of our year but there is still a lot of work to be done operations.
We plan for contactless to deliver the level of service we and our payments to be available to every GoAheadbus customer by the end of 2017. www.
com 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Win new bus and rail contracts won during the year.
This is an attractive local platforms.
Our target is for 15% to 20% market offering good returns, synergies and of Group profit to be generated from In Singapore, we took expertise gained from a steady pipeline of contract tenders.
international operations within five years.
almost thirty years of operating in the London bus market and translated it into Were also actively pursuing targeted More information on page 5 commercial advantage in a new but similar opportunities inother international markets, market.
Our 1,000 employees operate 395 including the Nordic region and Australia as buses on 26 routes, scoring very highly well as closer to home.
Were excited about Develop for the future oftransport against performance targets.
We submitted the opportunities ahead.
The way people travel is changing and another bid in this market in August 2017.
Go-Ahead will continue to be part of this When embarking upon international The experience gained in our Singapore expansion, we performed a global market evolving landscape, delivering transport operation will prove to be valuable as we solutions to millions of people.
In the face of assessment with a preference for contract prepare for the introduction of a new bus opportunities within a clear risk framework.
this changing world, we are seeking new contract in the outer Dublin area in late 2018, ways to use our skills, knowledge and assets Our target markets have a visible pipeline of awarded by Irelands National Transport contract opportunities offering appropriate to enable sustainable growth for the long Authority NTA in August 2017.
Our project team is currently exploring returns, stable political and legal systems first contract to be tendered in this market, and transport authorities committed to a range of initiatives to maximise value from marking the start of the NTAs plans to our operations by providing secondary introducing international operators.
transform the provision of bus services in the Go-Ahead brings experience, expertise and a services to existing customers, offer demand Greater Dublin area.
responsive transport, develop strategic long focus on high quality operations to these markets.
We aim to generate synergies as we term partnerships, influence regulation and In Germany, were preparing for the start of outsource our skills and systems.
expand within each market and also explore three rail contracts in 2019, one of which was opportunities to develop from established Our change themes Our management teams are committed on delivering change through a renewed focus on five key areas all underpinned by our vision, beliefs and attitudes Lean processes Technology Culture change Customer Leadership Our operating companies Across the Group, we are experience Strong leadership is key to Over the last year, will strive to deliver what focused on using success in any Go-Ahead began We strive to be a our customers want more technology to improve organisation.
The leaders implementing a culture customer-focused efficiently.
Using this internal processes, of our businesses effect change programme, business, understanding customer-centric increase customer change, guide their teams underpinned by our beliefs the importance of approach we will satisfaction and drive through challenging times and attitudes, focusing on continually improving the continuously improve our revenue.
We are utilising and plan for the future.
We empowering our people customer experience.
processes and minimise developments in are increasing our efforts and enabling two-way Using customer journey waste.
We will initially technology to improve across the business to communication between mapping we consider every focus on engineering and customer experience, from develop leadership skills in customer-facing element of the customer operational processes optimising automated both existing and future colleagues and leadership experience and work hard such as fleet management, ticket machines to reliably leaders to safeguard the teams.
With an emphasis to empower our people to before adopting lean providing real time Group for the long term.
on collaboration, we are provide customers with processes more widely passenger information building an open and agile control, comfort and ease.
See case studies on across all and providing our culture which will drive page 19 business functions.
See case study on business intelligence.
page 23 See case study on See case study on page 39 See case study on page 37 page 24 18 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In order to deliver this strategy, our management teams are focused on Change theme: Leadership delivering change through a renewed focus Continuous development of our leaders on five key areas: lean processes, technology, customer experience, culture change and leadership, all underpinned by our vision, beliefs and attitudes which over the last In line with best practice and good 12 months our people have embraced to corporate governance, the Board is drive change.
required to undertake a formal evaluation each year to help continually improve its Looking ahead effectiveness.
This year as part of the Times of uncertainty and change make it Group-wide culture change programme, important for us to further develop our Go-Aheads Board has considered the underlying strengths, and to embrace personal development of each member in opportunities as they arise.
We have a clear the wider context of the Boards strategy and a robust business model, and overall effectiveness.
our thirty-year track record provides us with The programme, which runs over several the experience and expertise needed to months, and is still ongoing, includes deliver sustainable returns and Groups vision, beliefs and attitude, was interviews, surveys, data analysis, improvements for customers in existing and designed to help Board members develop personal coaching and feedback sessions, new markets.
insights about themselves and colleagues, as well as a two-day off-site session to Looking to 2017 18, regional bus trading in and create a foundation upon which each foster stronger relationships between the early part of the year has been consistent member could increase their personal Board members.
Challenging with the fourth quarter of the prior impact, and so improve the Boards conversations in a supportive and year.
Were striving to improve on our wider efficacy.
constructive environment have resulted in industryleading customer satisfaction a commitment to make better use of the It is clear that this less traditional and scores:listening to our customers and relationships between executive and more dynamic approach has led to providing theservices they want, with a focus non-executive directors.
greater insights and a more collegiate, on drivingpassenger numbers.
We expect a but self-aware group.
The Board has Initial findings early in the process slight improvement in performance as committed to continue to working in showed the Board to be strong, with good one-off costs in 2016 17 no longer impact this way.
As such, the off-site results.
session aimed to build on this, leveraging The London bus business has secured existing skills and strengths.
This new almost all its revenue for the coming year.
approach, which is aligned with the However, increased competitive pressure hasresulted in some recent contract losseswhich will have a slight impact on performance in 2017 18.
This position isexpected to improve when the market stabilises.
Having been unsuccessful in the bid to retain pursue value-adding opportunities that the London Midland contract, the franchise match ourinvestment criteria, in target In rail, our priority is resolving the issues at will end on 10 December 2017 reducing markets including the Nordic regions and GTR so were able to provide our passengers profitability in 2017 18.
The slowdown in the Australia.
Inaddition, were looking at with services they can rely on.
Im pleased rate of growth in Southeastern passenger opportunities that address future needs, were making progress but were not yet revenue is expected to continue as economic complementing our existing operations and delivering the level of service we or our conditions impact customers travel patterns.
utilising our expertise and assets.
This also reduces our expectations of rail Looking ahead, we are faced with challenges As previously announced, discussions division profitability for the current that were well placed to address and financial year.
between GTR and the DfT about service opportunities that we will take to deliver changes and rolling stock cascades are We have a clear international growth strategy value for all our stakeholders.
The outcomes of these discussions, to build a portfolio of international operations relating to events up to 1 July 2017, is that with attractive returns in target markets.
The the impact on rail profitability is likely to be introduction of our bus operation in within a range of plus or minus 5m.
In Singapore, together with the contracts won addition, we now expect margins over the life inGerman rail and Dublin bus during the of the GTR contract to be between 0.75% year, demonstrate the progress we have and1.5%.
David Brown, already made towards our new five-year Group Chief Executive international growth target.
com 19 GTR OVERVIEW Supporting delivery of the Thameslink Programme The number of journeys made to and from London on the Southern network has doubled in just 12 years, demonstrating the need forinvestment in infrastructure and train capacity.
Southern routes the franchise agreement While GTR made every effort to minimise Why was GTR formed?
required certain specified changes in disruption for passengers, service levels GTR is the UKs largest ever rail franchise, working practices.
While train guards have were well below our and our passengers created to facilitate the significant historically been responsible for operating expectations with customer journeys being infrastructure changes taking place as part the train doors, the contract included a longer and more uncomfortable than they of the governments Thameslink Programme.
requirement for this responsibility to move should have been.
The Programme, which was designed to totrain drivers, who would operate the doors, address capacity issues and improve the During the period of industrial action, the using CCTV screens in the drivers cab to reliability of services through London and Secretary of State commissioned a report ensure safety.
This allows more flexibility in across Kent, Sussex, Hertfordshire and byan independent rail industry expert, operations, meaning more trains can run in Bedfordshire, will deliver long term benefits ChrisGibb, to suggest changes to improve times of disruption with fewer delays and to hundreds of thousands of passengers performance on the Southern network.
This approach to operation travelling on this network.
review concluded that the primary cause for isnt new, having operated successfully in the integrity of the system failing was union UK and international rail markets for members taking strike action, declining to What change did the contract decades including on a large number of our work overtime and generally not supporting own services.
The change was combined with require?
and undermining the system integrity.
the introduction of 100 additional on board Through Govia, our joint venture with Keolis, supervisors so there are more people on we are delivering the GTR franchise as trains to assist passengers, providing travel tendered by the Department for Transport information and advice, as well as making What improvements DfT.
The scale of the changes over the first sure that everyone has the right ticket for four years of the contract means that it was have been delivered?
not practical for any franchisee to take GTR has presented challenges but revenue risk and so the contract is structured ithas also already delivered many Why were there industrial as a management contract.
On some of the improvements for customers.
300m has been invested in new Unfortunately the two main rail unions, RMT trains with a further 200m fleet and ASLEF, did not reach agreement with investment planned.
We now have GTR on the modernisation.
Therefore, despite more twelve-car trains operating on jobs and pay being guaranteed, both unions the network which has increased have taken industrial action.
The RMT union, capacity by up to 36% on certain which represents many Southern train routes.
Investment has also been guards, called its members out on strike on made in customer experience off 32 days since April 2016.
At the same time, ourtrains, with 50m spent on we experienced unprecedented levels of station improvements, including the Modernisation of equipment must absence, which we believe was connected introduction of free WiFi to over 100 result in modernisation of working tothe dispute.
Together, the result was stations across the network.
This inevitably results in significant and led to sustained disruption also improving how we communicate totrain services, with high levels of delays with our passengers and are the first disruption at times, and I am sorry and cancellations.
network to offer real time information that the industrial action on the straight from the control centre to Southern network has been so Like the RMT, ASLEF has been in dispute passengers on trains, and automatic with GTR since March 2016 and passengers disruptive for customers over the delay repay has been introduced for have experienced disruption through 64 days past year.
Our priority is delivering customers using the key of overtime bans and six strike days between aservice passengers can rely on smartcard, to make it easier for December 2016 and July 2017.
ASLEF and the modernisation the passengers to obtain refunds when suspended industrial action in June 2017 services dont run as they should.
Improvements can only be delivered Andrew Allner, through our people and we have Chairman invested heavily in training and development, with 10m spent on 20,000 days of customer service training so far.
20 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information resulted in a potential impact of plus or Where are we now?
This GTR met its contractual obligation of range reflected both discussions around the introducing driver-controlled operation with What action has been impact of industrial action and other all relevant train guards accepting a change contractual obligations.
taken to improve in role to on board supervisor.
In July 2017, an agreement was reached customer experience?
Our passengers faced months of disruption withthe DfT for GTR to fund a package of To minimise disruption during the but improvements are beginning to be performance and passenger improvements industrial action, new timetables delivered with sustained improvements in worth 13.4m.
This agreement reduced were introduced allowing Southern punctuality on Southern services and 75% financial uncertainty relating to past to deliver a more robust service fewer cancellations over the seven months industrial action and lowered the range of around which passengers could tothe year end.
impact on profits to plus or minus 5m, with confidently plan their journeys.
the remaining range relating to ongoing We know it will take time for passengers to Managers were trained to work put their trust in us again but were working discussions about service changes and ascontingency conductors and on rolling stock cascades in 2018 as part of the hard to improve performance.
boardsupervisors to ensure as many Thameslink Programme.
We expect GTR to services as possible were delivered generate profit over its remaining life, to What are the financial during strike action.
During recent September 2021, with operating profit implications?
RMT strikes there has been a normal margins of between 0.75% and 1.5%.
service on most Southern routes with As with all rail franchises, GTRs contract There are three main drivers of long term more than 90% of trains running protects the operator against financial profitability for GTR.
First, high levels of train across the network.
impacts relating to events outside of the service reliability must be delivered for operators control, including industrial More customer assistants were on customers.
Second, the additional costs of action.
GTR and the DfT were involved in hand at stations to help customers running more and longer trains on the lengthy contractual discussions to agree the and detailed information was expanded infrastructure must be agreed with proportion of delays and cancellations that communicated to passengers using the DfT using the contractual mechanisms arose as a result of the industrial action.
In a range of digital and non-digital designed to cater for these changes driven February 2017, while this matter was under channels to ensure people had as bythe Thameslink Programme.
Finally, the discussion, Go-Ahead announced at its half much information as possible to programme of driving efficiency gains year results that a range of reasonably helpthem plan their travel.
envisaged at the outset of the contract must possible outcomes to these discussions be delivered.
I am convinced by what I have seen that if the traincrew were to work in the normal manner that they have in previous years, the output of the 100 system, a safe and reliable rail service for passengers, would be additional on delivered in an acceptable manner, board supervisors which would be similar to other The Thameslink Programme, being commuter rail services in the delivered jointly by Network Rail, South East.
the DfT, GTR and Southeastern provides a step change in capacity Chris Gibb, and a once in a generation Author of the independent report opportunity to provide a timetable commissioned by the Government to review st performance on the Southern network fit for the 21 century.
David Brown, For more information about the Group Chief Executive findings of Chris Gibbs report see www.
