Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 13 Financial Statements 2017 Chief Executives review A strategy for sustainable growth Performance A strategy for sustainable growth Galliford Try performed well in the year Having made strong progress with our on an underlying basis.
strategic objectives for the period to 2018, in February we set out our new Linden Homes increased both revenue strategy to 2021.
This strategy has three and margins, helped by greater product central themes: we want to drive standardisation and operational operating efficiencies, maintain capital efficiencies.
Although trading conditions discipline and operate sustainably.
More were difficult in the immediate aftermath details about each element of the of the EU referendum, they gradually strategy and our performance so far can normalised and the market was positive be found below and on pages 16 and 17. for the year as a whole, with good Each of our three businesses has its own mortgage availability, low interest rates strategy in support of these objectives and the continued stimulus of Help to Buy.
and these are described in the business The business ended the year with a solid reviews on pages26 to 38. order book of 373 million.
Driving operating efficiencies Growth in Partnerships & Regeneration Across the Group, we have an ongoing was driven by higher-margin mixed-tenure focus on streamlining and simplifying our revenues, which also benefited from the operations.
In Linden Homes, we continue positive housing market described above.
to standardise both the homes we build We are already making good Although contracting revenues were and our processes.
We also have scope to broadly flat, the business built momentum progress towards our strategic increase the volume of sales significantly in the second half of the year and had a objectives for 2021 despite through each of our 10 business units, substantially increased order book at the without corresponding growth in some of the challenges we faced year end.
Our geographical expansion is overheads.
Partnerships & Regeneration going well and the new Bristol office is in the year.
All three businesses will need to invest more in overheads as delivering a strong pipeline of work.
In May have clear plans to improve it continues to expand into new regions 2017, we expanded into the Southern but this greater scale will also help to operating efficiency and to grow region by acquiring the Drew Smith increase its efficiency.
In Construction, Group, a strong regional business with an margins: we are also targeting the opportunity is primarily around excellent operational fit for Partnerships & growth in Linden Homes and efficiency in our operating processes.
We also progressed plans to At the same time, we look to have a Partnerships & Regeneration.
open an office in the East Midlands.
lean overhead at Group level and central Our management teams are Constructions markets were also services that are aligned to the needs providing the strong leadership generally positive during the year, with of our devolved businesses.
the government and regulated bodies we need, as we look to make Improving our operational effectiveness continuing to spend on construction and will translate directly into higher margins.
further progress and deliver infrastructure.
However, the business was It will also ensure that we have a robust sustainable growth in the held back by legacy contracts, primarily platform from which we can deliver two major infrastructure joint venture coming years.
sustainable growth, while making us more projects.
These legacy contracts were responsive to any changes in our markets.
secured in a more challenging economic Peter Truscott environment for the construction sector.
Maintaining capital discipline Chief Executive After a thorough review of costs to We have a broad range of growth complete and expected recoveries, opportunities available to us, across all we announced a one-off charge of three of our businesses.
However, we are 98.3million in our trading update in May.
not interested in pursuing growth for its We are no longer undertaking similar large own sake and look to select only the best infrastructure contracts on fixed-price of those opportunities.
Our return on terms and there are no other similarly net assets is a key measure.
In 2016 17, procured major projects in our portfolio.
we achieved a pre-exceptional return on The underlying business is benefiting net assets of 27.5% and, by 2021, we are from its strong leadership and a rigorous targeting to maintain a return on net assets approach to contract selection and risk of at least 25%.
Our reported return on management, with new work coming net assets was 14.0%.
through at significantly better margins.
In the supply chain, material price inflation has generally been at a controllable level.
There have been some cost pressures on materials sourced in foreign currencies, as a result of the weakening of Sterling, but overall inflation in our material supply chain is low.
14 Galliford Try plc Chief Executives review continued Achieving this level of return means we We work hard to meet the needs of our We aim to have a positive impact in the must reinvest appropriately in the growth customers and clients.
We were pleased communities we operate in.
We deliver of the business.
We also recognise that that Linden Homes retained its four-star high-quality and functional homes, paying a strong and growing dividend to National House Building Council customer buildings and infrastructure, which benefit our shareholders is an important discipline satisfaction rating, while both Partnerships the people living in and around them, for the business, as the Chairman has & Regeneration and Construction whether by providing homes to rent or outlined in his statement.
continue to generate high levels of repeat buy, schools to send their children to or business, as a result of their strong client offices to work in.
We also look to minimise In uncertain times, a sustainable business is relationships.
We realise that we do not our impact on the environment.
Reducing one that is well-financed.
During the year, always get it right but we are committed to energy use and waste cuts our costs and we further strengthened our position by continuous improvement, with consistent our carbon footprint page 44, and helps extending our banking facility and issuing delivery being supported by our work to us to win work with clients who want their a 100 million debt private placement.
This streamline and simplify our operations.
supply chain to contribute to their own gives us the flexibility to continue to invest sustainability.
in our growth strategy, while maintaining Attracting, developing and retaining a our planned payouts to shareholders.
diverse workforce is evermore important.
Being a sustainable business also requires We have worked hard to target reducing us to adapt to industry trends.
We see Our growth plans are based on organic our employee churn rate.
In part, this a strong future for on site construction growth but we will also make acquisitions, requires us to make sure Galliford Try but there is a slow evolution towards where they will accelerate our strategy continues to be a great place to work.
We manufacturing partly or wholly off-site.
and are available at prices that create are embedding a culture that empowers However, there are considerable hurdles value for us.
In March 2017, we made an our people, gives our businesses autonomy to overcome.
The supply chain and offer to acquire Bovis Homes Group plc.
and devolves decision-making throughout available technologies in this area are The acquisition of Bovis would have the organisation, within a framework of highly fragmented and it is difficult to significantly accelerated our strategy in appropriate systems and controls.
We also achieve the same costs as traditional Linden Homes.
However, with a benign recognise the importance of offering construction, with the necessary land market it did not make sense to pay competitive rewards and ensuring our approvals in place.
The planning system is a significant premium for Bovis and we people can develop themselves and forge also an impediment, as it favours buildings were unable to agree terms that a career within Galliford Try.
However, we represented the right value for our believe off site manufacturing will be part shareholders, and accordingly decided We see a real opportunity to strengthen of the future and our Construction to withdraw from the transaction.
our diversity significantly, by instilling business is completing a number of flexible working and actively seeking a Operating sustainably buildings using these techniques.
This will more diverse employee base.
The industry We recognise that longer-term value give us valuable lessons for widening the has an ageing workforce and while a new creation requires us to balance our use of these methods in the future.
generation of workers is coming through, financial performance with our the pace is insufficient to offset Outlook obligations to all our stakeholders.
Offering flexible working will While we will continue to monitor market These include our clients, customers, make us a more attractive employer to a conditions, particularly in light of the employees and the communities and broader range of people, including older current political and macro-economic environment we operate in.
workers who have considerable skills and uncertainty in the UK, we consider that the Throughout the Group, our top priorities experience but no longer want to work fulloutlook remains positive for all three of are health and safety, business ethics and time, as well as people who need to our businesses and we are excited about customer service.
These are things balance work and family, and younger the opportunities our new strategy to we must do well, all of the time.
generations who want to work in a 2021 identifies.
Continued strong demand different way.
This will require us to think in housebuilding, stable construction While our overall health and safety differently about how we resource our markets, a Group total order book of performance improved this year, with a teams, so we can have the right mix of 5.3 billion, and our strengthened balance reduction in the accident frequency rate to full-time and part-time people, and use sheet give the Board continued confidence 0.12, we were greatly saddened that there technology to enable remote working.
in the Groups prospects for the were two fatalities, including one on a forthcoming year.
This is unacceptable to us and we continue to strive to improve Peter Truscott our performance, with the aim of Chief Executive achieving a safety record that is top-quartile in the industry.
We have a responsibility to conduct our business ethically, which means we must ensure our people know what we expect of them when they represent Galliford Try.
Our Code of Conduct sets out our values and our belief that all employees have a role to play in making us sustainable.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 15 Financial Statements 2017 01 A strategic focus for Galliford Try Partnerships & Regeneration The kind of affordable housing projects we deliver through our Partnerships & Regeneration business are in short supply across the UK, and we forecast an increasing demand for the kind of work that we do.
Our track record means that we are very well placed to take advantage of this growing market.
Bournville Gardens Retirement Village, Birmingham Acquisition of the Drew Smith Group In line with our expansion plan in Partnerships & Regeneration, we acquired leading contractor and mixed-use developer, Drew Smith.
Combining our expertise, financial resources and framework positions with Drew Smiths local knowledge and client base strengthens our offer in an area where we see considerable opportunity.
