Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our Chief Executive, Alistair Cox, OUR BUSINESS discusses the Groups performance in2017 and looks ahead to our areas PHILOSOPHY CENTRES offocus for 2018 and beyond.
How would you describe Hays financial performance this year?
TO SUPPORT LONG-TERM A. I am very pleased at how we performed this year.
1 Wegrew our global net fees by 6%, and delivered 211.5 million of operating profit.
Thats at the top end GROWTH ofthe markets range of expectations and well above thelevels we might have expected as we started the year.
Wealso converted those profits into 217 million of operating cash flow, representing a strong cash conversion rate of 103%.
Consequently, we ended the financial year with 112 million of net cash, our strongest balance sheet for manyyears.
That result, combined with the continuing supportive market outlook as we enter the new year, has enabled the Board to propose both an 11% increase in the core dividend, as well as a special dividend of 61.6 million in line with our distribution policy.
"This represents a key "" We ended the financial year milestone in the development and progress of our business with112 million of net cash, and is testament to the significant cash generation potential of the model we have built."
"My first priority for ourstrongest balance sheet uses of that cash is always to reinvest in the business and formany years. """
there are many examples of that, some detailed below.
Following on from our investment programme, our Alistair Cox second priority has long been to eliminate our net debt Chief Executive, Hays plc and build a net cash position of around 50 million, and that has now been achieved.
Thefinal use of cash is to distribute to shareholders, viaalong-term sustainably covered core dividend, supplemented when appropriate with a special dividend.
The strong results we have delivered this year have nowallowed us to put in place this final piece of our cashstrategy.
"16 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Turning to our individual businesses, the backdrop was "" Three-quarters of our net fees are positive in the vast majority of our markets throughout derived outside the UK and that the year."
Three-quarters of our net fees are derived outside the UK and, at 170 million, our non-UK profits hasstood us in good stead with the reached all-time record levels.
This has stood us in good non-UK markets being supportive stead with the non-UK markets being supportive throughout the year.
"We saw further clear structural throughout the year. """
growth in the demand for our services in markets across Continental Europe and Latin America, and Europe in Alistair Cox particular delivered an excellent performance from what Chief Executive, Hays plc 1 is now our biggest region, with fees increasing 12%.
Asiawas more mixed, particularly in those markets moreexposed to Financial Services.
However we ended D Di iv five er rs si ifi fic ca at ti io on a n an nd i d in nte ter rn na at ti io on na al li is sa at ti io on o n of t f th he G e Gr ro ou up p the year with positive momentum across the region.
UK International Themore mature markets including North America andAustralia were encouraging and we saw a marked improvement in Australia over the course of the year, delivering our third-best-ever annual result 2017 fromthat business.
Within that overall Group performance, did you seean impact on your UK business following the outcome of the EU Referendum?
In the UK, our financial year started immediately after 2005 75% 25% the EUReferendum.
That introduced asignificant level ofuncertainty into the market and wesaw a marked step down in activity in the weeks following the Referendum, especially within our UK private sector Perm business.
However, activity levels stabilised over the summer and autumn months and we saw modest improvement as the year progressed, exiting the year with the private sector back in modest year-on-year growth, albeit over the strong growth this year, rebounding after adifficult few 1 fullyear fees for the UK & Ireland were down 7% and years post the downturn in the mining industry.
As we enter our new year, the UK market around the world, there are many examples of significant remains subdued but the business is set up appropriately outperformance versus original expectations.
Asia and to meet current demand and we will be quick to react to Europe in particular have increased their profit contribution any future market movements.
France is an excellent example of that, having more than doubled in the past Q.
You are now four years into your five-year plan fouryears and surpassing our 2018 aspiration of 10 million period.
Where does this financial performance leave operating profit a year early.
Lets not lose sight though that our 2018 aspirations A.
Back in 2013 we outlined our five-year aspiration to werenever designed to represent any kind of peak broadly double our operating profits from what was then forthe potential of our business.
In fact, I see 125 million, towards 250 million.
Clearly there were, significant further growth opportunities ahead in many and continue to be, many factors which could influence businesses including Germany, France, the US and across our ability to deliver this, including the economic Asia to name just a few.
Thats an exciting future and with backdrop, currency fluctuations and our own ability this thought in mind, we will be hosting an investor event toexecute on our plans.
However, despite all of these in November 2017 at which we will outline our financial factors, I am happy to say that four years into the plan and strategic aspirations for the next phase of growth period, we are broadly where Ihoped we would be at and development in our business.
Operating profit has increased from its base of125 million to 211.5 million this year representing Finally, our strong performance has strengthened our aCAGR of 14% over the past four years.
Indeed, our balance sheet to the best position we have enjoyed for cumulative profit growth of c. 86 million over the plan many years.
Five years ago, we had a net debt position period to date is significantly more than that of any of our of133 million.
Today that debt has been eliminated UK listed peers.
Understandably, in a business as globally andwe have built a net cash position of 112 million.
Our diverse as ours, we have faced headwinds and tailwinds business is inevitably impacted by the cycle, so I believe during the plan period.
The UK business has faced our current debt-free balance sheet is the most appropriate challenging conditions recently, as discussed above.
structure to face this inherent cyclicality.
We are able Offsetting this however, weve seen continued strong todistribute significant returns to shareholders after we profit growth inour German business, where profits have invested in the business, yet also retain strength 1 increased 9% this year to 80.5 million, making andflexibility to react to whatever the economic cycle Germany our biggest profit contributor at the Group may throw at us.
Similarly, the Australian business hasdelivered 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 17 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Q.
What were your primary areas of strategic focus highsalary contractors.
"Its undoubtedly been a key "" In the past inthe year and what progress was made?"
driver of recent success in eachcase and will remain five years akey focus area of growth going forward.
A. Alongside our financial aspirations, we also had the alone, we clear strategic objective to materially diversify where Thirdly, we remain focused on building scale in our have grown ourprofits are made, and to reinforce and enhance our USbusiness, following the acquisition we made there German business in a world which is constantly changing.
The business we acquired, Veredus, was operating 100%focused on the IT space, with a platform of 120 Over the years we have built a truly global business with consultants across 10 offices.
Today, weve launched profits by operations in 33 countries, and geographic diversification asuccessful Construction & Property specialism, built 29 million, is akey pillar of our strategy.
With this network in place, outour pre-existing, butsmall, Life Sciences business we are now focused on building scale and critical mass making this andbuilt scale in Perm recruitment.
We now have 200 across this platform as many of our countries offer now our consultants across 12Hays US offices and we continue significant potential to build sizeable businesses that in tobelieve that this market represents a massive growth biggest time will sit alongside Germany, Australia and the UK as opportunity for our business.
We will therefore continue business by major profit contributors.
Germany itself was a modestto invest organically to build scale, complementing local sized business a decade ago.
"In the past five years alone, profits in hires with internal transfers from the rest of the Hays wehave grown German operating profits by 29 million, theworld. """
Wewill selectively open new offices making this now our biggest business by profits in the Alistair Cox where we see the opportunity to do so and we will world.
In a similar vein we have made excellent progress Chief Executive investin and support thegrowth of the core, legacy in France where we just delivered over 10 million of ITContracting business.
operating profit, making France the fourth biggest country by profits in the Group.
Alongside these areas of focus in our core business, ourbrand awareness remains a priority.
We continue to We are also investing to diversify our income in other establish Hays as one of the most recognised, high profile ways too.
As Temporary and Contracting roles become brands in the recruitment industry.
Through our role as increasingly prevalent in many parts of the world, we are the Official Recruitment Partner of Manchester City, the building the proportion of our business which is generated Hays brand and messaging receives extensive broadcast from non-Perm jobs.
This sector provides greater resilience exposure in over 200 countries.
Last season, viewings against the economic cycle and greater visibility of ofManchester Citys home games, where Hays receives earnings, as well as being a high growth market.
Finally, highly visible brand exposure, reached almost 150 million.
the world of work continues to evolve atarapid pace.
Manchester City also share Hays content across their Forexample, we have seen the recent emergence of digital channels and social platforms which, last season whole new job categories, especially in the technology alone, provided us with close to 100 million impressions sector as data science, cyber security, digital marketing across the likes of Facebook, Twitter and Chinas Weibo.
and mobile development have become important skills We continue to lead the industry on LinkedIn too, with inthe business landscape.
Consequently we have invested over 1.8 million followers, placing us as one of the top 30 in building our own services in these new sectors, most followed companies in the world.
The Hays Journal, ensuring that our services are as relevant forthe future a global, bi-annual publication for HR and recruitment markets as they have been for the more traditional.
professionals, is now into its seventh year and recognised All of this is done with the clear aim of making our as a leading authority of issues and trends impacting the business as resilient as possible, and to ensure we have a global world of work.
One of the most significant benefits core value proposition which can thrive for years to come.
of establishing a leading brand profile is evidenced by the This has been our focus across the past four years, and fact that, over the past year, wehave engaged through once again underpinned our approach this year, and Id our marketing and consultant communications with over identify three specific areas to discuss.
290,000 client contacts and over 820,000 candidates with whom we had no prior contact or relationship.
Firstly, we continued to organically invest in consultant headcount in order to support growth in supportive and Q.
Technology and technological change is improving markets, such as Australia, where headcount somethingthat is spoken about a lot in the context was up 15% year-on-year and France, where it was up 12%.
What are your thoughts At the same time, we continued to invest aggressively on this and how are you approaching this issue?
tosupport the long-term structural-growth opportunity A. I think its hard to find an industry in the world that that exists for the recruitment of skilled people in markets isntgoing through some sort of transformation or seeing like Germany, where headcount was up 24% and Latin the impact of new technologies in how they operate, America where we have 7% more people than a year ago either for good or bad.
The specialist recruitment industry across our four country businesses.
In our case, the emergence Secondly, we made further good progress in rolling out ofnew technologies, especially digital and web-based, our IT Contracting business, which has been so successful ishaving an impact on the way we do business, as well within Germany over many years, to other countries.
asthe way our clients and candidates are seeking to do Notable successes in this respect have been France, business with us and interact with the jobs market.
These are countries that, fiveyears Having said that, our core value creating processes and ago, derived only 19% of their fees fromnon-Perm core function, placing great, skilled candidates into their recruitment, and that was largely in the short-tenure next jobs and helping businesses secure the scarce talent Temp market.
Fast forward to today however and they they need to continue to grow, has not changed, even are 30% Temp and Contracting, asignificant proportion ifthe way we go about it, or the way our clients and ofwhich comesfrom placing long-term, high skilled, candidates expect that service to be delivered, has evolved over time.
18 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information While there are many strands to this issue, and Our approach in all of these areas is driven by a central technologies evolve quickly, our philosophy has always belief that the world of technology is changing and will been clear.
We seek to innovate and build collaborations continue to bring change to the way we need to do that will allow us to fully understand all of the changes business.
By building and nurturing relationships and taking place, ensuring we are at the forefront of our collaborations and investing in our own capabilities, industry and meaning we can best mitigate any risks wecan best understand these changes, fully capitalise thatmay emerge and at the same time ensure we are onthe many opportunities that arise and understand positioned to capitalise on any new opportunities to andmitigate any risks or threats that may emerge.
develop, enhance or protect our own core business.
What do you see as your biggest opportunities Central to this approach are the many relationships weve looking ahead to 2018 and what risks are you built with digital and technology companies which we concerned about?
believe are relevant to our operations and markets and A.
The vast majority of our markets around the world where we see clear mutual benefit in working together.
aresupportive, and the outlook is positive.
As such we Examples include our long-established relationship with will remain focused on investing in front-line recruitment LinkedIn, which continues to yield significant benefit consultant capacity to drive growth wherever we see interms of the productivity and efficiency of our people.
At the same time, we will support InAustralia, we collaborate with SEEK, the largest jobs the long-term growth opportunities that exist in many board and recruitment data company in the market.
Again, parts of the business.
This will again be largely through there is clear mutual benefit.
Between each companys organic investment in headcount, as well as selective dataset, we cover around 90% of the professional people office expansion in specific markets such as Germany in Australia, meaning that we have unrivalled insight into andthe US where we see the most significant long-term the local candidate market.
This insight allows us to ensure growth potential.
our interactions with those candidates are as effective and valuable to them as possible, improving their The biggest risk we see over the coming year is in the UK, experience and improving our own efficiency in getting where uncertainties regarding the macroeconomic and the best, most relevant list of candidates to our clients political outlook are likely to remain throughout the asquickly as possible.
period in which the UK negotiates its exit from the EU.
This could have a detrimental impact on candidate Another area of change relates to data.
Specifically, the confidence to move jobs, or business confidence to amount and type of data we need to handle as a business investand take on new staff.
The impact on this could be which has increased dramatically over recent years.
reduced volumes of placements in our UK business and Asaresult, it is essential that we equip our people with therefore reduced fees.
That said, we are encouraged by the tools and skills they need to use and interpret this the resilience we currently see in the UK, which continues data in the most effective way possible.
We have invested to be broadly sequentially stable overall.
Forward visibility in search tools to enable real-time, targeted searches for remains limited and outlook uncertain, but as ever we will the best shortlist of candidates for a specific role as and monitor activity levels closely.
We worked with Google to embed their search tools within our database to do just that.
Overall, our core business model remains robust and the Equally, we are focused on what the power of data can outlook for specialist recruitment is positive.
Last year, doto make us better at what we do and provide a better wehelped over 300,000 people find their next job, service to both our clients and candidates.
Knowing andover 30,000 companies to hire talented people into which candidates are most approachable for a particular their business.
Helping businesses to grow and peoples role, or which candidates are currently active in the jobs careers to flourish is a core function within society and market, can mean we have higher quality interactions this is something were very proud to do.
Wecontinue withpeople, again generating better quality candidate tosee the emergence of new job types and new ways shortlists and more efficient processes for ourselves and ofworking in many markets around the world, which our clients.
With this in mind weve invested in our own present opportunities for our business and the first time internal resource, hiring specialists in Data Marketing and outsourcing of the recruitment process in places such as Analytics, and we continue to invest to keep abreast of Germany continues to drive growth.
We expect that we new and emerging business models, technologies and will see further change and evolution, for example in the routes to market which are relevant to our industry.
form of technological change, increased compliance or Wehave adedicated Innovation team in place to monitor changing regulatory environments.
Wewill embrace what isbeing developed so we can ensure we are these changes as they will continue to present us with positioned torespond accordingly in whatever way we opportunities to grow as well as create risks or threats.
This includes small investments Where they do, we will continue with our approach of into businesses or seed capital companies which we innovation and collaboration to ensure we preserve and believe can be beneficial or additive to our core business, enhance our business.
We see significant long-term as wellas building our own in-house test products and growth prospects for our business, and remain focused innovative services to respond to changes in certain parts on positioning Hays to fully capitalise on them in the of our market.
Alistair Cox Chief Executive 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 19
