Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review We have strengthened our positions in our core markets How would you summarise Kiers performance In 2017, we made good progress Q in2017?
operating in our core markets: building, From a strategic perspective, 2017 was a good year for infrastructure and housing.
We continued to simplify and streamline the Group, which enabled us to focus on our key clients and chosen portfolio simplification programme has markets and position ourselves for the future.
Operationally, our enabled theGroup to strengthen its core businesses continued to grow their market positions, especially the building and highways businesses.
market-leading positions, laying robust foundations which improve our efficiency Financially, 2017 also confirmed the strength of our underlying business.
We saw organic growth in revenue and operating profit and provide a platform for growth.
across the Group, and achieved a net debt position which was at the lower end of market forecasts.
At year end, our Construction 1, 2 3 Revenue Order book and Services order book was approximately 9.5bn including the McNicholas order book, which secures around 90% of our work for 4.27bn 9.5bn 2018.
OurResidential housing business performed well, and our Property division pipeline expanded to around 1.4bn, which 2016: 4.08bn 2016: 8.5bn willprovide excellent development opportunities over the next tenyears.
Overall, our performance in 2017 provided further validation of our core market verticals building, infrastructure and housing we Q&A have chosen topursue.
These positions now firmly underpin the future direction of the Group and support our proposition of Invest, Build and Maintain.
I believe we have the ability to be the UK Chief Executive Haydn market leader in these markets, and to exploit cross-selling opportunities between our businesses to the benefit of our clients.
Mursell reflects on last year What has the portfolio simplification programme Q involved and what are the implications for the business?
Weve been engaged in the process of portfolio Watch Haydn talk about the results and how we A simplification since 2015.
It has involved closing invest, build and maintain operations in territories where new business prospects on www.
co. uk have significantly declined, and selling businesses that were not aligned with the strategic direction of the Group, and or did not deliver our minimum ROCE hurdle of 15%.
For example, during 1 Continuing operations.
Group and share of joint ventures.
2017 we closed down our operations in the Caribbean and in 2 Continuing operations.
Hong Kong, and completed the sales of Mouchel Consulting See note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Includes 0.6bn for McNicholas acquired post year end.
14 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements These activities were challenging and, in this respect, itwas a The recent increase in fines for health and safety incidents, busy year, as we undertook these changes while keeping our core following the introduction of new sentencing guidelines in 2016, businesses on track.
Importantly, our core operations not only was a key consideration this year.
In light of the new requirements, traded well but managed to gain market share and deepen client in 2017, we recorded a provision of 8m in this years results to relationships.
We also maintained the strength of the Group with cover potentially increased fines for historic safety incidents.
apositive cash performance and a well-controlled pension deficit, However, while we support the intention and principle of the creating a robust year end balance sheet.
The financial impact regime, we are mindful that the fines levied to date by the Health ofthe portfolio simplification programme, together with certain and Safety Executive have been wide ranging in value.
We will othernon-underlying items on the Groups 2017 results, therefore continue to monitor the situation carefully.
was a non-underlying charge of 75m see page 54 for more What sets Kier apart from the information.
The programme also generated net cash of 67m, Q competition?
the significant majority of which was invested in the Property and Residential divisions.
There are very few UK competitors who can match the A breadth and scale of services we offer.
Invest, Build and With the portfolio simplification programme now substantially Maintain is at the heart of our business and demonstrates complete, I believe we have emerged from this period a more the range of services and operational flexibility we have within the agile, efficient and focused organisation with a growth trajectory Group.
Indeed, we can take on any asset or project and meet a ahead of us.
clients funding, development, construction and maintenance Given the scale of the exceptional charges in the requirements.
We can do this either as a single activity or as a Q 2017 results, how has this impacted on your risk combination of these activities, whether its a property appetite, particularly when operating overseas?
development, a new school, road construction or a facilities maintenance package.
In simple terms, its important to know your clients and A yoursupply chain, and have your best people available who Today, we encourage different businesses within the Group to understand the risks, the nature of the contract and its pursue business development opportunities together.
The Group continues to operate overseas in customer research carried out during 2017, we know that our the Middle East and Australia.
While geography and local knowledge clients value collaborative partnerships that support their are critical, the principles of risk management still apply.
Its about offering mindful that one poorly performing project can impact on our core expertise reinforced by the wider scale of the Group.
Our profitability and importantly our reputation.
The Caribbean unique strength is that we can offer add-on capabilities, either operations have demonstrated how significant losses can be from the outset or as projects evolve, which in turn increases the incurred and over the past three years we have implemented a depth of our client relationships.
Currently c. 30% of our revenue is very rigorous and disciplined bidding process.
This, in addition to generated from clients that work with two or more businesses in our review of procedures during project delivery, will underpin the Group, a trend we aim to increase.
consistent operating margins and further strengthen our Our strategy is focused on organic growth.
With a broad portfolio, we are able to mitigate complementary merger and acquisition opportunities which will the challenges which can arise from the contracting environment.
expand our offering and we invest in the development of the How was the Groups safety performance in enlarged business.
For example, Kier has a relationship with Q 2017and how will you continue to improve Highways England which was enhanced with the Mouchel yoursafety ethos?
McNicholas, acquired in July 2017, further enhances our presencein power, rail and telecoms, making us a top three Safety continues to be a key priority.
During 2017, we player in the UK utilities sector.
Most importantly, Kier is a A broadened our approach to incorporate the health and company with a good track record of delivery and is trusted by our wellbeing of our employees.
We achieved an accident clients and partners.
This has played a major role in our ability to incidence rate AIR of 130, an improvement of 38% compared deliver day-in day-out.
to2016 and well below the average industry benchmark of 480.
What about Brexit and the current political Our performance in 2017 was the culmination of recent efforts to Q uncertainty in the UK how will these enhance our safety record.
Our goal is to reduce our AIR to zero by developments affect the business?
2020, and as we continue to bring this rate down the challenge will be how to eliminate minor slips, trips, falls and similar We derive strength not only from the scale of our business, incidents.
To this end, we are exploring innovative new ways of A but from the nature of the work we undertake.
Firstly, we communicating safety messages and engaging our employees and specialise in markets that are key focus areas for the suppliers.
We encourage them to share good ideas and improve UKGovernment, such as housing and infrastructure, where our safety culture across all projects and contracts.
investment in new build or maintenance is likely to continue for some time.
Secondly, in our Services division especially, we deliver In 2017, we increased the number of Visible Leadership Tours to essential every-day services.
These services for example school help refocus attention on safety.
We also increased the coverage and hospital extensions, road network maintenance are required of our safety training and behavioural change initiatives across all year round, regardless of the prevailing political agenda.
Ultimately, safety comes down to attitude.
We run our means we can maintain operational stability and pursue growth.
sites in line with a set of core principles we refer to as the Five Even with major projects that require government intervention and Basics see page 32 for more information.
These principles are approval, our position is somewhat protected.
designed to promote awareness, accountability and rigour, and to discourage people from taking risks and shortcuts in their day-to-day work.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 15 d e y o l p m e l a C t i a p p a i t C a l c r e a t e d Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review continued We are continually exploring new and Our strategy and business innovative ways of communicating safety model are intrinsically linked messages and engaging employees about to deliver stakeholder value our safety culture.
For example, if there were delays in major capital works due to Building on our strategic priorities Brexit, funds are likely to be redeployed into other areas such as power distribution and utilities where our core infrastructure businesses operate.
The recent awards of the 1.5bn HS2 Operate a safe and sustainable projects to the CEK joint venture, in which we have a one-third business share, shows the political commitment to infrastructure Continual improvement in safety and investment.
There has been lots of discussion about the sustainability is a prerequisite to Safe and availability of labour and skills.
To date, we have experienced no success in ourmarkets.
We work with sustainable material change in the supply of labour.
However, we are employees, customers and our supply monitoring this situation particularly within the supply chain.
How would you define the Kier Q company culture?
Accelerate growth to be a top 3 At Kier, our people really live our values Collaborative, player in our chosen markets A Enthusiastic and Forward-thinking.
This should come as no Leading market positions mean we are better surprise, because our people chose these values based able both to capitalise on opportunities and Growth on the qualities that matter most to them.
When Im out in the manage risk frommarket changes.
business, Im really pleased to see the pride our people take in their work, and in the legacy that we continue to build.
Achieve top quartile performance We work hard to maintain an open and inclusive culture where and efficiency everyone feels welcome and can be themselves.
Indeed, new Strong cash generation and efficient capital joiners often comment on how open and welcoming Kier is.
This is recycling provides stability and enables something we are keen to build on.
We want to encourage people Performance investment in the future.
of all ages and backgrounds to join us, thrive and progress.
Our Balanced Business Network and recently launched Shaping Your World campaign, are great examples of how we are raising our profile among wider groups of potential recruits.
Provide sector-leading customer experience As we grow, we want to retain the best aspects of our culture while Our customer relationships give us the evolving it to reflect the changes in our business.
When we understanding we need to provide the best, Customers consider mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures, we think most reliable service and to tailor our offer carefully about cultural fit and combination, and whether a new as customers needs evolve.
business can strengthen or enhance what we have.
Its also important that we keep listening to our colleagues to understand their experiences of working at Kier.
We want our people to feel Attract and retain highly confident that we will take action to improve things where we can.
motivated, high-performing teams Our culture is hugely important to us, and is a key factor in Attracting, developing and retaining the attracting and retaining the people we need to drive the business best people is critical to our success.
And, of course, our people are at the heart of this culture and make Kier what it is today.
Dating back to the 1980s, our history is one of employee ownership, and over the years this has created an environment in which every individual takes a deep and Embracing innovation and technology across our business genuine interest in the performance of the company.
Embracing innovation and technology enables us to improve customer Innovation service, our offering and efficiency.
Turn to pages 22-27 for more information on our strategic performance 16 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 C d a e d p t e i s t t e a a l v e n r r i e e i c n r v l l e a a t s t i C t i p e a p a d p a C i C t a l e m p l o y e d Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements e d e l y o p l p o m e e l a C t P i a p p a i t C a l c r e a t e S d y s We take a customer-centric approach to service delivery and development.
By using our combined capabilities to invest in, build and maintain assets, we deliver for our clients and create value for all our stakeholders.
Delivering for our customers Creating value for all our stakeholders Investors A sustainable dividend policy Average annual dividend growth since 2014: 19% People Engaged people who are able to grow and develop Engagement: 60% Services Property Customers Helping customers achieve their goals Customer satisfaction: Creating Capital Value customer invested created 91% value Community Operating in a way that benefits the community Construction Residential BITC score: 91% Environment Reducing our impact on the environment Energy reduction target by2030: 30% Turn to pages 30-33 for more information on operating a safe and sustainable business Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 17 t e C d a e d p t e i s m t t e a a l v e n s r r i e e i c n r v l l e a a t s t i C t i p e a p a d p a C i C t y a l t e m e p l f o y a e d S Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review continued What were the major corporate responsibility How, in these uncertain times, do you ensure you Q highlights of 2017?
Q have the right flow of people into the business?
Im pleased to report that we made good progress in We know that homegrown skills and labour will be critical A several non-financial areas.
We made real progress in A in the years ahead, which is why were fully committed to terms of diversity, or what we call creating a more making our company and our sector as attractive as balanced business.
This year, for the first time, Kier employees possible.
To this end, in September 2017 we launched Shaping participated with industry colleagues in Pride London, marching Your World, which informs pupils aged 11-15 about careers in under the banner of #buildingequality.
We also continued to construction and the wider built environment.
As part of this extend opportunities to people who may find it more challenging to campaign, we have created the Kier 1% pledge which commits enter employment.
These efforts include initiatives for exthat over 200 Kier employees will visit schools as our offenders, school leavers from disadvantaged backgrounds, ambassadors to talk about the diverse career paths on offer former service personnel and workplace returnees.
We are also across the Group, from quantity surveying to civil engineering.
proud to support the Government-backed Apprentice Diversity Thisactivity will also help to recruit older students for our Network initiative.
During the year, we focused on activities which apprenticeship programmes and graduate schemes.
help our people, our teams and the communities in which we As a member of the 5% Club, we also ensure that 5% of our operate.
Highlights included the Kier Awards, held for the first time workforce is made up of apprentices and graduates.
We have a at a national level, to recognise outstanding examples of strong track record of providing dedicated and tailored employees living the Kier values.
development to our existing employees, giving them the career We also held our second corporate responsibility CR forum for support and guidance they require.
shareholders, during which we articulated our CR commitments Personally, what highlights or events stood out and activities, including our environmental achievements, safety Q for you during 2017?
performance and social value initiatives.
By communicating our efforts in this way, we have successfully engaged investors and Throughout the year, we demonstrated that we can grow demonstrated our commitment to value creation beyond the A both organically and through acquisition.
The increase in our Business in the Community BITC completion of the portfolio simplification programme was a score from 87% to 91% is a clear demonstration of the progress significant achievement, as it enables us to move forward with we have made.
We have invested in systems and infrastructure such as a new finance shared service centre in Manchester which creates important back-office support enabling the business to deliver and grow.
The performance of our highways business also underscored the viability of our model.
We remain focused on delivering our Vision 2020 strategy continuing to develop the business remains a priority.
18 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The end of June saw the tragic events at Grenfell Tower.
We have Whats the outlook for the business, and what been reviewing the use of cladding and projects undertaken in the Q are your immediate priorities?
building business and on clients estates where Kier provides Following the portfolio simplification programme, we are in either maintenance or facilities management services.
The A a strong position to pursue our growth strategy with a construction of high-rise residential tower blocks is not a core focus on organic growth.
Within this strategy, we have set activity of Kier, but the discussion relating to cladding has ourselves the goal of increasing our operating profits, on average, extended to other types of developments and therefore by 10% every year, and in 2017 we saw ongoing improvement in wecontinue to work with clients to address their challenges.
the quality of our earnings and margins.
What are your priorities for the new financial Q year?
Looking ahead, we will focus on operating as efficiently as possible.
In 2017, we invested 40m in our back-of-house We remain committed to delivering on our Vision 2020 capabilities to ensure we can optimise our performance and A strategy, and achieving our financial and non-financial successfully assimilate all future acquisitions.
I am particularly focused on improving the quality of roll-out of our 70m back-office system investment, and the our products and services while increasing our efficiency.
I believe integration of our customer relationship management system, will that by looking at new ways to share ideas and solve problems, provide a robust platform from which we can further streamline wecan develop Group-wide solutions which will provide further processes and drive innovation through the business.
investments will stand us in good stead as we move forward.
In the coming year, we will establish a new 1m innovation seed I believe the general outlook for the business is positive, with a fund for our teams to help make this a reality.
Our newly-created strong order book, healthy balance sheet, andbuoyant core Innovation team and the #forwardthinking@Kier plan will be critical markets supported by government policy.
to this process, as we embrace the technological developments that are occurring across the Group and in the marketplace.
We are now ready to take the next step on our journey, and I look Consequently, we have updated one of our strategic priorities to to the future with confidence.
reflect this focus embracing innovation and technology across our business.
However, as well as new investment, we continue to look at ways to transfer technology already used in other markets to our businesses such as virtual and augmented reality.
We are looking at new ways that technology can help our clients deliver, for example, smart recycling where data collection can help Haydn Mursell councils understand the behaviours of their customers and Chief Executive intelligent technology in homes and offices which provides data that helps you understand the wear and tear of living and working 20 September 2017 in buildings.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 19
