Group Chief Executives statement Sky has had a strong year delivering on our growth strategy.
Its been another good year for Sky and we have delivered a strong performance in all markets.
We have made excellent progress in advancing all areas of our business plan, combining solid operational delivery with a range of new initiatives that we believe can deliver further strong growth.
At the heart of Sky, is a relentless focus on delivering three things the best and broadest range of content, innovative products and excellent customer value and service.
This approach, delivered by talented and dedicated people, is what allows us to consistently create value for our shareholders and enjoyment for our customers, while contributing strongly to the communities in which we live and work.
Strong results and a year of significant delivery We have made good progress against the priorities that create sustainable value for our shareholders over the medium term.
This is achieved by providing the broadest range of the best content for every household, innovating at pace to create the best products and extending our lead as the number one customer service brand in our space.
At the same time, we will look to expand into new markets and build new revenue streams, Jeremy Darroch all underpinned by sustained operating cost improvement.
Group Chief Executive Delivering on this has ensured that our full year financial performance was strong.
Revenue growth was 10% 5% on a constant currency basis at 1 12.9 billion with all markets and categories in growth.
Operating profit of 1 1,468 million was 97 million below last year after absorbing the step up in UK Premier League costs, investment in new businesses and on screen.
We continued to make excellent progress in improving our operational efficiency and delivered further cost savings, with operating costs down by 3% as a percentage of revenue.
We delivered our 200 million synergy target six months ahead of schedule and are now working towards a 400 million target by the end of 2020.
This approach allows us to keep investing in our customer offer while delivering our long-term financial targets for the business.
Customer growth, despite challenging consumer environments, continued to be strong.
We added 686,000 new customers over the year across our platforms and territories, growing our overall customer base to 22.5 million.
At the same time, we grew paid-for products by a further 2.7 million with strong growth from the likes of Sky Mobile, UHD and multiscreen.
In the UK and Ireland, we continued our focus on delivering returns from the content and product investments we have made over the last few years.
We are targeting broadly based revenue growth with a number of new products and services such as mobile, transactional services and our targeted advertising product AdSmart, alongside our subscription business.
Delivering on these priorities has led to a good financial and operational performance in this market.
1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be found on page 141.
6 Sky plc Strategic report Joshua v Klitschko press conference Our performance in Germany and Austria has been very strong as we In Italy, we launched Vision Distribution, a new theatrical distribution pursue the significant opportunity that exists in Europes largest TV company set up as part of a deal agreed with five of Italys top independent market.
Our drive towards broadening our customer proposition and producers.
Sky will hold all TV rights to the titles released by Vision developing a range of products and services to suit the whole market Distribution, which ensures ongoing premium Italian movie content has delivered excellent customer growth.
And in Italy, despite a particularly challenging general consumer Sky Sports performed well across the Group.
It is the breadth and range environment, we have successfully grown our customer base and of our offering, and the choices we make in where to invest, that enables operating profits have reached their highest level for five years.
us to effectively monetise sports rights and ensure broad customer appeal.
Our loyalty programme attracted over two million members and In football, Serie A, Bundesliga and Champions League achieved recordwe continued to add value to customer subscriptions with the breaking audiences, and while Premier League viewing was down as a launch of Sky Go Extra, the Sky Kids App and a new Sky Sports app.
result of, among other factors, an additional ten games broadcast on the prior season, we saw the highest total reach in the Premier League for Investing 6 billion on screen makes us three years.
Motorsport, including F1 and MotoGP, was up year on year Europes leading investor in content and our pay-per-view Joshua v Klitschko fight exceeded one million This was our best year ever on screen and our slate of Sky productions buys only the third time we have exceeded this number.
continued to enhance our track record for producing world-class In 2017, we renewed or won a number of important sports rights that entertainment which our customers love.
Our channels now consistently position us well for the long term.
In the UK and Ireland, we agreed a new reach over 100 million people every quarter.
five-year partnership with the England and Wales Cricket Board, including In the UK, Riviera delivered almost 12 million downloads, making it our most the live rights to international and county cricket, taking our partnership popular premiere box set release ever.
In Italy, a new series of the original with them to a total of 18 years.
We also won the rights to domestic drama 1993 was the second best performing series on Sky Atlantic behind womens cricket and netball.
In Germany and Austria, we remain the the extremely popular The Young Pope.
In Germany and Austria, the locally home of the UEFA Champions League for the next four years, following produced Babylon Berlin and Das Boot are eagerly anticipated in the upcoming a successful rights renewal.
In Italy we won rights to the Europa League financial year where we will be growing our Sky Originals investment by and UEFA Champions League, further enhancing Skys position as the a further 25%.
leading sports service in Italy.
During the year we cemented our position as the partner of choice for We continue to work with rights owners, enforcement groups and other content and channel providers all over the world, renewing our partnerships industry partners to tackle piracy.
Among other initiatives, we supported with NBCUniversal, Discovery and A E Networks, along with launching the English Premier Leagues High Court action to block the illegal streaming a co-production partnership with our long-term partner HBO.
of matches which resulted in a significant reduction in the availability of illegal streams.
We will continue to support such action as well as seek The extension of these long-term rights deals means that we have more further legislative support to reduce this illegal activity.
new shows than ever before while ensuring that we continue to provide our customers with the best acquired content alongside Skys original productions.
Our partners trust in Sky as the custodian of their brands means we can give our customers access to a portfolio of the worlds best channels and movies.
Annual Report 2017 7 Group Chief Executives statement continued Super Netball Grand Final Sky News in the UK once again received acclaim for its coverage of major As consumers seek flexibility to access content, we continue to broaden news events during the year and proved itself as a leader in real-time news.
our offering to ensure we are serving the whole market.
We launched The strength of Sky News journalism was recognised when the channel pay-lite streaming services in Germany and Austria, Italy and Ireland as well took home five Royal Television Society Journalism awards.
With four as our NOW TV combo in the UK.
We also continued to make big strides in of the awards coming in categories in which we had not previously won, delivering content across multiple platforms with the introduction of Sky Go the recognition reflects the continual hard work of the team and our Extra in Italy, the new Sky Sports app in the UK and the Sky Kids and Sky VR ongoing evolution as a news organisation.
apps across all of our regions, making us Europes leading streaming service.
In Italy, Sky TG24 began the transfer of the majority of its operations to In communications, our broadband business in the UK continues to new hi-tech studios in Milan, and in Germany we opened our new in-house grow and we have added a number of new products to better serve our broadcasting facility, Sky Sports HQ in Munich.
These advances will both customers.
We have also been able to leverage the strength of our brand improve efficiency and, through greater technical proficiency, deliver a and industry-leading customer service to launch Sky Mobile and create superior product.
another revenue and future profit stream.
While it is early days, we are excited by the opportunity.
Innovating at pace to create the best products Best in class customer service We have continued to innovate across the business, developing industryleading products that are constantly improving and are giving customers Excellence in customer service is at the heart of what we do and we are a superior user experience.
Such superior functionality is leading to constantly seeking ways to get even better.
This is why we have extended greater engagement with our customers in the form of increased viewing, our leadership position in all markets.
In the UK we topped Ofcoms league tables for customer service across We launched Sky Pro in Germany and Austria into over 460,000 homes every quarter and every product category, while in Italy customer and in the UK we enhanced the already industry-leading Sky Q with satisfaction is at its highest level in three years and in Germany, voice search, new personalisation features and even more UHD content.
customer satisfaction levels are continually improving.
Sky Q is now the number one reason for joining Sky in the UK and we look forward to launching Sky Q without a satellite dish and unlocking a currently untapped customer base.
Sky Pro 8 Sky plc Strategic report on our websites and social media channels: and via internal engagement across Sky.
The campaign has reached over 100 million people online and on air to date, with more than five million having engaged in the campaign.
We have supported more than 170,264 young people with our initiatives over the past year.
Sky Sports Living for Sport over the past 14 years has developed and built skills in around a third of the UK and Irelands secondary schools: the launch of the Sky Academy Studios in Milan has welcomed 5,570 young people through its doors since opening in Q2: and the Sky Foundation in Germany has supported more than 5,663 children with year-round sports programmes across the country.
Our people Central to everything we do at Sky is our culture.
We work hard to be an inclusive employer, so everyone at Sky can be themselves and give their best.
Excellence in customer service In a high-performing, consumer facing organisation like ours, we have This year we launched a step change in customer service as we move from developed a talented, capable and dedicated workforce that is committed direct contact to digital first.
We have now rolled out new digital service to creating success for all of our stakeholders.
I am constantly grateful for apps across all our territories which have been well received by customers.
their contribution to our business.
Skys history of renewal and constant In the UK, where this service has been in the market the longest via the improvement has been led by our people, and we recognise that investment My Sky App, 50% of all interactions are now digital, which is driving in their training and development is central to our ambition.
enhanced customer satisfaction while reducing costs.
Looking to the future As evidenced by the outstanding success of the Sky Extra loyalty programme We exit the financial year in a strong position with significant growth in Italy, rewarding customers for their loyalty clearly has tangible benefits.
We provide our customers with world-class content, innovative Record customer satisfaction levels and industry-leading levels of churn products and industry-leading customer service, through a committed and illustrate how well customers in this market have responded to this initiative.
We are focused on delivering strong and sustained financial We will be taking these learnings and rolling out similar programmes in the UK performance and returns over the long term and have an appetite to invest and Germany in the coming year.
to achieve this while maintaining a strong financial position.
Alongside this How we do business we seek to make a wider contribution to the communities in which we live and work.
We believe this is the right approach in the interests of all our How we do business is a core part of who we are.
We recognise that stakeholders and we are optimistic for the future.
Sky sits at the heart of millions of customers lives and we seek to use our voice to make a difference in the areas customers care about.
Our major new environmental awareness initiative, Sky Ocean Rescue, has now fully launched across the Group, following World Oceans Day in June.
The campaign to engage consumers on the health of our oceans, starting with single use plastics, is running across all business channels led by Jeremy Darroch news coverage and documentaries: supported by on-screen programming, Sky Sports Living for Sport Annual Report 2017 9
