Chief Executives Review PIONEERING ANIMAL GENETIC IMPROVEMENT In 2017, Genus achieved an improving Our R&D programme had a planned financial performance through the increased investment in gene editing, year and made strong strategic as well as other areas of research and progress.
We grew our investment product development.
We achieved in our leading-edge proprietary further strong results in porcine technology platform and positioned product development, with rates of Genus to seize the significant growth genetic improvement exceeding our opportunities ahead of us.
We also incurred pre-launch costs for our GSS technology, which WE EXPECT TO MAKE Group Performance we brought to market as planned The Group performed in line with our after the end of the financial year.
FURTHER STRATEGIC expectations for the year.
In constant currency terms, revenue increased Strategic Progress PROGRESS AS WE by 6% while adjusted profit before In addition to our increased investment tax including joint ventures was 1% in R&D, we concluded a number of CONTINUE TO lower, after our planned increase in important strategic developments R&D investment.
In actual currency, in 2017, which continued to build revenue and adjusted profit before Genuss leading position in pioneering INVEST IN R&D tax rose by 18% and 13% respectively.
Genus PIC continued to perform Our efforts to improve Genus PICs well, with adjusted operating profit European business in recent years including joint ventures up by 7% in were rewarded with robust growth constant currency.
To strengthen further this was strong, particularly in China.
revitalised operation, we formed a Genus PIC continued to extend its strategic partnership with Hermitage royalty base, grew its presence with and acquired its porcine genetics.
We also formed fide Novo Genetics, key integrated producers in China This will help us to accelerate genetic a majority owned joint venture with and won business with new large improvement for the customers of both fide-Su, the leading independent customers in North America.
organisations, whilst we benefit from Holstein breeder.
fide Novo has a worldthe substantial footprint of Hermitages leading dairy genetic improvement We were disappointed with Genus European supply chain.
Early results programme and significantly expands ABSs performance in the first half of of the partnership are encouraging.
and strengthens our capability in the year and took action to address dairy product development.
While the issues, including appointing a In bovine, IVBs strong performance led the biological results will take time to new COO for ABS Dairy to sharpen us to acquire the outstanding 49% a come through, fide Novo has already our commercial execution and year early in March 2017.
The business produced industry leading bulls.
ABS continues to expand in the US and, with Dairy performance improved in the the successful launch of its operations We launched Sexcel, our proprietary second half, resulting in adjusted in the important Mexican market.
semen sexing product, on 1 September operating profits including non- 2017.
This followed the granting in controlling interest for the full year our favour of a permanent injunction declining by 13% in constant currency against ST, which was ruled to have compared with a 30% decline in the wilfully maintained monopoly power first half.
We continue to be pleased in the US market for processing sexed with the performance of IVB.
| 16 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 STR ATEGIC REPORT I also extend my thanks to all my colleagues around the world.
Their hard work and dedication to delivering for our customers enables Genus to succeed.
Outlook The fundamental drivers of our markets remain favourable, with 18% demand for superior genetics REVENUE IN ACTUAL continuing to grow.
We expect to CURRENCY make further strategic progress, as we continue to invest in R&D and the benefits of this years initiatives come through in both PIC and ABS.
We anticipate making further positive financial progress in 2018 and to perform in line with our expectations.
Karim Bitar 13% Chief Executive ADJUSTED PROFIT 6 September 2017 BEFORE TAX IN ACTUAL CURRENCY bovine semen.
We are excited by the INAD from the US FDA and continued prospects for Sexcel, which is the first to develop constructive relationships competing technology in this space for with regulatory authorities.
Sexcel is now available in the US, India and key markets People around the world.
ST has launched Dr Nate Zwald joined us in January new patent litigation, which we had 2017 as COO of ABS Dairy.
We are very anticipated and will vigorously defend.
pleased with the leadership, customercentricity and people focus he has Our longer-term PRRSv-resistance already brought to the business.
programme made good progress, in conjunction with our partner Caribou Catherine Glickman stepped down as Biosciences.
We have edited elite Group HR Director and will retire from pig embryos and implanted them, Genus at the end of 2017.
We co-founded thank Catherine for her outstanding RenOVAte Biosciences, a biotech contribution to our progress during company focused on creating gene her six years at Genus.
Angelle Rosata edited livestock, which is supporting was promoted to the role from July this programme.
We also secured an 2017 and we welcome her to the GELT.
