Strategic report Chief Executives Q&A In the spotlight Q&A upheaval which met with some employee opposition How would you characterise and undoubtedly had an impact on morale and this years performance?
The business should now be in a Overall, we are satisfied with where we ended up for much stronger and positive position with the project fully implemented.
the year, with some obvious caveats and considerations.
We suffered a dip in retail visits and performance last Mecca suffered from declines in visits, but managed summer and struggled to recover, leading to a weaker to outperform its main competitors and continued first half of the year than we would have expected.
to maintain good cost control.
More importantly, But an improvement in performance in the second we have trialled a number of bingo variants for half of the year together with some cost reductions example, Big Bingo Bash, Bonkers Bingo which are led to a much stronger second half, contributing showing promise, and, with the recently launched 1 46.9m of operating profit compared to 36.6m Luda, there is plenty to drive growth.
Our digital business had a strong year with profits Grosvenor applied a much more stringent application 2 up significantly.
With 15% revenue growth we are of customer diligence with respect to evidencing source outstripping UK market growth for digital gaming, of funds, which, together with lower gaming margins with Grosvenor continuing its stellar trajectory and on our VIP activity, led to lower than anticipated Mecca showing good progress in the lower growth revenues.
Grosvenor also implemented what it termed digital bingo sector.
We changed our digital operating Project One, changing and harmonising pay and structure, making way for a multi-brand approach, benefits across the casino estate.
This was a considerable and made a number of new hires into key positions, such that we feel that we now have a very strong team.
We also continued to develop our Sheffield Customer Solutions Hub, which has gone from strength to strength and gives us real competitive capability.
18 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 In Spain, where the economy continues to recover, Beyond achieving performance our Enracha business had a very positive year with 1 targets and all our brands revenues and profits up 23% and 72% respectively.
Although just nine bingo clubs, with a digital service showing solid growth, we are fully launching in 2017 18 and with possibilities on focused on five specific areas the retail side, we are excited about Enrachas continuing growth potential.
which will help drive growth and long-term value.
We also continued to look at how we could best run the centre of our organisation, closing our central London office and moving to a larger and more What is your view on the regulatory modern Maidenhead headquarters.
The resulting workspace has led to a much more unified outlook for the gambling industry?
The whole gambling sector is waiting for the Department of Media, Culture and Sport DCMS to Where do the Companys priorities lie publish the recommendations of their review of stakes in the next 12 months?
and prizes on gaming machines, social responsibility More information measures and gambling advertising: what has been Strategy 24 Beyond achieving performance targets and all our termed the Triennial Review.
The DCMS has delayed Operating brands showing solid growth, we are focused on publication a couple of times, latterly because of the review 32 five specific areas which will help drive growth and general election, and the Review is now expected in long-term value.
In the course of 2017 18, we will October or November of this year.
There is media launch a single account and wallet product across speculation that stakes on B2 machines or fixed odds our Grosvenor channels.
It will see the delivery of betting terminals in betting shops will be reduced, a complex solution combining different systems but curbs being placed on TV advertising are also a and technologies from a range of partners and possibility.
Neither of these issues would have a big suppliers.
The result will be a joined-up retail and impact on our business: we do not have B2 machines digital business with customers being able to move in any of our premises and we are not a significant seamlessly between the two, which should drive TV advertiser.
activity and volumes in both.
We will also be launching a number of new digital brands this year, As part of the consultation process, we, together which should also help digital growth.
Although with the rest of the casino industry, argued for a Mecca and Grosvenor are strong, established brands, harmonisation of 1968 Act and 2005 Act casino they appeal to a certain customer segment and having licences, which would mean that 1968 licences additional brands will give us an improved ability to the vast majority of our licences would be entitled cross-sell customers into new brands and reactivate to a higher number of slot machines based on a dormant customers.
Only 3% of the UKs slot machines are currently located in casinos Grosvenors nine London casinos generate and we estimate that harmonisation of licences would approximately half of its profit.
Whilst successful only move this to 4%.
We believe a harmonisation of clubs in their own rights, they have historically been licences would open the way for increased investment run fairly independently and have not utilised their and further non-gaming amenity to be contained combined benefit to full effect.
Implementing a clear within casinos, more akin to the US or continental Grosvenor London strategy is therefore a priority for casino model.
We have just opened our first new Luda site, bringing bingo-led entertainment to the high street, From August 2017, remote gaming duty at 15% will in August 2017.
Opening further Ludas and making be due on any bonuses or freebets given to digital the concept a success will also be an area of focus for customers.
Based on last years numbers this would the year.
Finally, with rising operating costs, including have translated to 3.3m additional gaming tax.
increases in the National Living Wage and higher There is always scope for the government to increase inflation, we are focused on keeping central and gambling taxes but, given this recent move, we would above-club costs disciplined whilst improving our be surprised if there were any further changes imminent support capability.
Land-based bingo is taxed at 10% reduced from 20% in 2014, casino table games are subject to a 15-50% tax scale based on volumes, and most slot machines are subject to 20% machine gaming duty.
Changes to tax are impossible to predict but we do not anticipate that these rates will change in the short term.
com | 19 Strategic report Chief Executives Q&A Beyond regulation, we believe that the gambling We believe that much is industry has suffered a deterioration in trust in the being done in and around the eyes of customers, politicians and the media in the last few years.
This has been reflected in the increased industry to promote responsible negative media coverage of the gambling sector.
gambling and to minimise Whilst much of this criticism is justified and we support continued scrutiny of our industry, we believe gambling-related harm that that much is being done in and around the industry often gets overlooked.
to promote responsible gambling and to minimise gambling-related harm that often gets overlooked.
As this develops we believe the industry will regain some of that lost trust and be viewed in a more Gibraltars access to the EU market would not impact positive light.
Were the border between Gibraltar and Spain to close we would need to enact contingency measures, Land-based retail businesses similar to other gaming companies, as many of our employees currently live in Spain rather than throughout the UK are struggling.
However, we see no imminent threat of What is your perspective on your this happening and have appropriate plans in place.
In general retail terms, there has been an undoubted How has the introduction of companyshift from much of the high street to the digital world wide values evolved in the last year?
with some high-profile casualties along the way.
We launched our STARS values in July 2016, However, where that shift has been most marked representing Service, Teamwork, Ambition, is where customer interaction is predominantly Responsibility and Solutions.
This is the first time transactional: where the convenience and choice that Rank has had a single set of values across its offered by a digital transaction trump anything businesses and reflects the fact that our businesses on offer on the high street.
But when there is an are increasingly bound together by the same set of experiential element to a good or service, the digital opportunities and challenges.
world often provides a less compelling proxy.
In our bingo venues and casinos, we offer both transactions Since their launch we have tried to embed our values and experiences and have the added advantage that into our business processes and daily working lives.
when it comes to gaming, many customers still want An example of this has been threading our values to play with or draw their winnings in cash.
So, we through the lifecycle of an employee: assessing have no doubt that both casinos and bingo venues potential candidates based on evidence of displaying will prosper long into the future but, to maximise our values: adapting our employee appraisal process, their ongoing potential, they will need to focus more such that our people are assessed on their adherence on the experiential side of things and continue to to our values as well as their individual objectives: adapt and change their offer.
We feel we are well and incorporating a values assessment as part of exit positioned on both fronts.
But beyond this example, there are many different areas, both in our venues and at the centre, Will Brexit have an impact on where our values now play an important part in our company.
We believe our values are key both to business success With the exception of our Enracha business 4% and and to shaping an organisation that has the right 7% of Group revenues and profits respectively, the culture and ethos for dealing with many of the majority of our revenues and costs are in pounds complexities of gambling, including the sometimes sterling and we have no direct benefit from a single negative impact it can have on customers.
A significant number of our we will continue to evolve how our values are used employees are non-British EU nationals, so their and embodied in our business and to try to track continued right to residency in the UK is important and measure our progress.
to us something to which the UK government has now committed.
Our digital operations are based out Henry Birch of, but not licensed in, Gibraltar we hold both UK and Chief Executive Alderney digital licences, meaning that any change to 16 August 2017 20 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017
