Chief Executives review Active Emerging Markets specialism delivering performance across cycles As expected, Emerging Markets attractive value opportunities for investors, sales momentum picked up and the second generated good returns over the past most of whom are underweight the half of the year delivered consecutive year both in absolute terms and relative asset classes.
to Developed Markets, and capital flows Investment performance and AuM The typical investor is underweight Emerging into Emerging Markets have resumed.
growth Markets, with an allocation of less than With this favourable backdrop, Ashmore Ashmores investment performance is 10% and in some cases well below 5%, continues to deliverstrong investment strong, as expected at this point in the compared with representative benchmark performance for clients, and its business market cycle, with outperformance relative weights of 20%.
This presents a significant model has performed as expected with to benchmarks and peers reflecting the medium-term growth opportunity, as good operational and financial performance decisions to add risk when market conditions investors should raise allocations towards demonstrated by the increase in the Groups were weaker and Ashmores active benchmark weights, and those benchmarks revenues, adjusted EBITDA margin and investment processes identified and acted increasingly reflect the growing relevance diluted EPS.
The ongoing improvements in upon the significant value available across of Emerging Markets within the worlds economic and political fundamentals across a wide range of asset classes.
The market economy and capital markets.
Emerging Markets compare favourably recovery is in its early stages, with plenty of with the structural growth challenges in the Financial performance value still to be captured by active managers.
developed world, and provide substantial Reflecting the growth in assets under The positive outlook, described in more detail opportunities for Ashmore to continue to management, the Groups net revenue in the Market review, provides the potential deliver value for clients and shareholders.
The for continued outperformance by Ashmores favourable market environment also provided Emerging Markets backdrop investment processes that have been opportunities to generate performance fees, Index returns across the main Emerging consistently deployed over the past 25 years.
although the vast majority 89% of the Markets asset classes were strong over As the chart below shows, since its inception Groups fee income continues to bederived the year to 30 June 2017 and ranged from in 1992, Ashmores first fixed income from recurring net management fees.
6% in external debt to 24% in equities.
fund, EMLIP, has delivered consistent This means that Emerging Markets assets outperformance against its benchmark, The Groups disciplined control of fixed continue to outperform their developed the JP Morgan EMBI GD index, and for costs limited operating cost growth world counterparts, in both fixed income and comparison the S&P 500 equity index.
excluding consolidated funds to 7% and equity markets.
While the rally has not been notwithstanding investment in the rapidly Ashmores assets under management a straight line, the brief interruptions have expanding local market platforms in countries increased by 12% over the 12 months been caused by events in the developed such as Colombia, Indonesia and Saudi from US$52.6 billion to US$58.7 billion, world, such as the US election result in Arabia.
Consequently, the adjusted EBITDA through positive investment performance November 2016.
The consequent reset margin rose from 62% to 65%.
Cash of US$4.2billion and net inflows of in Emerging Markets prices presented generation in the period was strong, with US$1.9billion.
As the cycle turned, gross Attractive long-term returns in Emerging Markets 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 100 EMLIP net EMBI GD S&P 500 Cumulative monthly returns since October 1992 Source: Ashmore, Bloomberg, JP Morgan 10 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Index 1992 100 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Strategic report 109% of adjusted EBITDA converted to markets in benchmark indices remains meaningful retail business that sources high cash flow excluding consolidated funds of inadequate, with just 8% of bonds and 18% net worth capital through agents such as 174.8 million.
The Groups balance sheet of equities included in indices, this presentsa private banks, broker-dealers, wirehouses, remains well-capitalised and liquid, with substantial set of investment opportunities wealth advisers and other intermediaries.
total regulatory financial resources of 559.4 for active investment managers to address Over the past five years, the proportion of million compared with a regulatory capital outside of those securities meeting the AuM from intermediated retail clients has requirement of 111.1 million, and cash and rigid index eligibility criteria.
Strong AuM cash equivalents excluding amounts held in over time, some countries will remove the growth from clients in Europe, the US and Asia consolidated funds of 420.1 million.
impediments to index inclusion, for example ex Japan has all but replaced the anticipated by improving foreign investor access to their Profit before tax increased by 23% to run-off of the Japanese retail money raised in domestic capital markets.
206.2million, with the Groups actively- 2010 and 2011, and the proportion of Group managed seed capital programme Looking at Emerging Markets fixed AuM from these geographies has nearly contributing profits of 41.0 million.
Diluted income securities, the US$20.1 trillion of trebled from 4% to11%.
EPS increased by 31% to 23.7 pence, and outstanding bonds is dominated by local Ashmore has delivered growth in retail AuM, the Board has proposed a final dividend per currency issuance comprising 89% of the notwithstanding the challenging market share of 12.10 pence to give total dividends total.
When combined with the US$30.3 conditions for much of the period when per share of 16.65 pence for the year.
trillion of domestic credit outstanding, sentiment, and especially retail investor Emerging Markets account for only 27% Strategic and business attitudes, was negative towards Emerging of global finance.
Yet Emerging Markets developments Markets.
While retail capital-raising was generate nearly 58% of global GDP, which There are several prominent themes that will difficult against this backdrop, the Group therefore offers compelling evidence of a affect the asset management industry over secured new distribution agreements and significantly better investment proposition the medium term, including the increase gained intermediaries approval for products than Developed Markets fixed income where in passive investing in certain markets, to put it in a stronger position when the cycle 73% of global financing is supported by just turned and investor sentiment improved.
continual regulatory developments, and, 42% of global GDP.
partly in response to some of the perceived Of particular note are the blended debt, Institutional investors in the developed challenges, the industry has seen some short duration and frontier equity products, world have limited exposure to Emerging consolidation activity.
which are selling well through retail channels Markets, with target weights for a typical In relation to recent regulatory developments in Europe and the US.
Asian private bank pension fund being below 10% for fixed such as MiFID2, Ashmore has been working relationships have also delivered growth income and equities.
In some cases, actual towards the implementation date of January through fixed duration products.
allocations are significantly below targets.
2018 and consequently is well prepared and Ittherefore remains the case that as Phase 3:local markets believes the impact on its business model emerging nations continue to grow more A key strategic initiative is to develop a will be manageable.
rapidly than developed countries, and their network of local Emerging Markets asset capital markets increase their representation Ashmores strategy and business model management platforms to capture domestic in global markets and benchmark indices, are designed to deliver value to clients flows.
These businesses also provide access the pressure on investors to address this and shareholders over the longer term by to global investors wishing to take specialised underweight position will increase.
This growing a high-quality, diversified, focused, single-country or regional exposure through situation is amplified by the relative value specialist active investment management local managers affiliated with Ashmores arguments in favour of Emerging Markets, business.
This should mean that Ashmore strong brand and control culture.
While with attractive yields and equity valuations is well placed to deal with any medium-term many of the businesses are at an early contrasting with the elevated price levels industry challenges and to take advantage stage of development, the network spans and negative real yields prevailing in many ofthe opportunities that may arise.
seven countries, represents a meaningful Developed Markets.
proportion of Ashmores employees Phase 1:Emerging Markets investment including investment professionals, and Phase 2: diversification through universe continues to grow contributes approximately 5% of Group AuM.
growth in intermediary AuM The Emerging Markets investment The second phase of the Groups strategy universe continues to grow rapidly and The local businesses are performing as looks to diversify its sources of AuM, and now comprises US$44.6 trillion of fixed expected, with good growth in AuM, therefore revenues, through broadening income and equity securities, an increase revenues and profits.
During the financial access to its distribution channels and of 12% or US$4.7 trillion over the past 12 year, action was taken to resolve growth its client mix.
While the representation of these challenges in some of the weaker-performing Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11
