STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 22 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 23 STRATEGIC REPORT 2,200 Chief Executives Review Employees Our Central divisions had an excellent year due For the first time in our history we completed over 5,000 homes to both the Radleigh acquisition and a sizeable contribution from forward land.
They now account in a financial year.
for 25% of the owned and contracted land bank compared to 22% last year.
Over half 54% of the Groups land bank is in the South and Greater DELIVERING GROWTH CREATING GREAT PLACES TO LIVE 200 London with the balance of 21% located in the North.
I am delighted to report that the Group has again Long before the recent resurgence of interest in delivered outstanding results for the year.
We have Garden Towns and Villages, Redrow was leading New directly employed Notwithstanding the strong forward land continued to grow the business and for the first time the way: in the nineties we masterplanned and pull-through, we increased the forward land bank jobs created in our history we completed over 5,000 new homes developed Kingsmead in Cheshire a thriving to 26,400 plots by adding 4,000 new plots.
Our success is attributable to a community of around 2,000 homes.
The robust business model implemented by a talented development has stood the test of time and At a strategic level we saw planning improve team of people across a well-structured continues to be a sought-after location to live.
Many following the introduction of the National Planning .
of the design principles that made Kingsmead such Policy Framework in 2012.
There are now signs this a success are being applied to the Garden Villages improvement has stalled as local authorities fail to These exceptional results were achieved against we are developing today.
get Adopted Local Plans in place.
This is adding to an uncertain political and economic backdrop as a the delays that continue to frustrate the detailed result of Brexit and also an ongoing requirement to Our major Garden Village developments at planning and technical approval process.
We have manage an industry-wide shortage of skills to meet Woodford in Cheshire, Ebbsfleet in Kent, Tamworth also seen timescales for appeals extend which our build programmes.
in the Midlands and Plasdr in Cardiff are designed unfortunately reduces the pressure on local to create attractive and great places to live.
They authorities to make timely decisions.
In the year we delivered 5,416 new homes including are well-located to take advantage of excellent We continually JVs, an increase of 15% on the previous year.
transport links but more importantly, are set in Our caution in the land market in the first-half Turnover grew by 20% to 1.66 billion and pre-tax landscaped environments where families can live combined with planning delays will inevitably have strive to improve profits were up 26% to 315m.
We have also applied some impact on the timing of new outlets coming the same principles to our Colindale Gardens on-stream.
As a consequence, outlets are only our build operations.
During the year we acquired Radleigh Homes, a development in North London.
This high density expected to marginally increase over the course of small Derby-based homebuilder.
The acquisition new Urban Village development is just a short walk the next year.
However, with our strong land bank allowed us to accelerate the opening of a new East from the tube and will eventually consist of over and output per outlet continuing to steadily Midlands division and has given us a pipeline of 3,000 homes set in generous areas of open space increase, we remain firmly on-track to meet our excellent sites from which to expand.
We now have and formal gardens.
14 operational divisions across the Group including Colindale Gardens our major regeneration project This careful approach to designing great places BUILDING RESPONSIBLY in North London.
to live is equally applied to our smaller sites that Ensuring our sites are safe places to work, visit and made up a large proportion of the land we acquired live is central to our build operations.
We are also The strategic decision we took in 2015 to focus our in2017.
conscious of our responsibilities to protect the London operation on the outer boroughs was timely.
environment and to be considerate to those We have now substantially completed our high-end In the year we added 5,419 plots with planning and affected by our building works.
Significant volumes marginally increased our owned and contracted of completions are now coming through from our JOHN TUTTE land bank to 26,100 plots.
In the first half of the year, We continually strive to improve our build Outer London sites and these are set to increase Group Chief Executive immediately following Brexit, there were fewer operations and we have recently achieved materially as Colindale completions begin to come opportunities in the land market and we also ISO14001 certification for our environmental on-stream later in 2017. adopted a more cautious approach in the second management systems.
We also retained our Gold half momentum returned to our land buying and we rating in the annual NextGeneration Sustainability Overall our compound rate of growth has been added 3,703 plots.
Our forward land pull-through Benchmark and our Three Trees status from the exceptional in recent years.
However, whilst our was particularly strong and accounted for 3,356 World Wildlife Fund.
strategy is to continue to grow the business, the plots representing over 60% of the plots acquired in rate of growth is expected to moderate over time the year.
We were also recognised in the year for our as divisions reach optimal scale and our scope for standards of Health and Safety winning one divisional expansion reduces.
Commended and four Highly Commended Awards in the coveted NHBC Health and Safety Awards one of the best performances amongst the majorhomebuilders.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 24 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 25 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives Review continued Our success in the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards Against these challenges and rising customer By ensuring we create a rewarding and enjoyable there are key issues that need to be addressed by continued a record 27 of our site managers expectations, it is pleasing to report we maintained place to work we are able to both retain and expand Government to support future growth: in particular received awards in this years competition.
We also a customer recommendation score of close to our workforce.
Last year we created over 200 new the status of EU workers, the future for Help to Buy won two LABC Local Authority Building Control 90% last year.
jobs and increased the directly employed workforce and the need to revitalise stalled planning reforms.
awards for the quality of our site management on our to 2,200 people.
We are seeing gratifying returns VALUING OUR PEOPLE Notwithstanding the need to address these issues, high-rise apartment blocks at Colindale Gardens.
from our investment in people in particular, it is we are in a strong position to both deliver another pleasing to see so many young people building their Much of what we have achieved is attributable to Growing output and maintaining high levels of set of record results in 2018 and to meet the careers with us.
To support our career development the quality of land we have acquired, our award quality and productivity remains a challenge.
ambitious targets we have set for 2020.
We have programmes we have expanded our training winning homes and the places we create, but However, we are working hard to overcome and a very strong order book, an excellent land bank, facilities across the country opening new centres in fundamentally, its about the talented people we manage skills and a few isolated materials a sought-after product range and, above all, a the North West and at our Colindale Gardens employ and their dedication to making our business shortages as the industry, and its supply chain, talented team of people.
I am confident we can development in London.
It is pleasing that when industry-wide adapts and invests to increase resources to meet overcome the challenges we face and maintain our talent is in short supply so many of our people the ongoing demand to build more new homes.
We LOOKING AHEAD track-record of meeting or exceeding our targets.
In our most recent need the Government to continue to support Employee Satisfaction Survey, 96% of colleagues The longer-term prospects for the housing market training initiatives and in particular reach an early said they were proud to work for Redrow.
remain encouraging: unemployment is low, mortgage JOHN TUTTE agreement as part of the Brexit negotiations on the rates are attractive and there is robust underlying Group Chief Executive status of EU workers who make such a valuable demand for new homes.
However, aside from the contribution to our industry.
4 September 2017 short-term risk of political and economic uncertainty, RADLEIGH HOMES PRODUCT AT LANGLEY COUNTRY PARK, DERBY
