Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review I am delighted to introduce my first Chief Executives review.
I am proud to be leading a business that has clients at the heart of how it operates.
We are a market leader, looking after the wealth of nearly a million individuals: a huge responsibility at a time when people need more help than ever in managing their savings and investments.
We take this responsibility very seriously.
Our expertise and client service are well respected and I believe the strength and scale of our business means we can continue to develop its offering to the benefit of all our stakeholders in thefuture.
2017 highlights It was a busy year at Hargreaves Lansdown, providing us with astrong foundation on which to build future growth.
We have broadened our offering, adding products such as the Lifetime ISA and two new HL Select funds, launched our new mobile apps, increased our digital marketing presence and continued to grow our execution-only stockbroking market share.
We added record net new business NNB of 6.9 billion, introduced 118,000 net new active clients to our services and grew our active client base by a further 14% to 954,000.
All achieved while maintaining our client service at the high standards to which we aspire to.
Our vision is to be a 118,000 net new active clients household name and the The importance of offering a wide range of services to clients was best place for savers and made clear during 2017.
Brexit proved a drag on investor confidence and NNB in the first part of the year, although we still increased our investors in the UK.
market share and grew assets faster than the UK D2C platform market.
However, we also saw a significant uplift in client share trading and associated revenues which carried on throughout the year.
This resulted in our execution-only stockbroking market share 1 increasing from 26.9% to 30.1%, reflecting our competitive charges and user-friendly proposition.
In the second half of the year, improved investor confidence allied with bringing selected fund launches such as CF Woodford Income Focus, the increased ISA allowance and targeted transfer campaigns saw NNB accelerate.
Strong flows and supportive markets saw Assets Under Administration AUA increase 28% to 79.2 billion.
This drove revenue growth of 18% and, despite selective investment to support both higher client activity levels and our growth ambitions, we increased profit before tax by 21% to 265.8 million.
It was disappointing that we had to announce on 4 August that we could not pay a special dividend for the 2017 financial year from these profits, but we have had a very strong year and are well positioned to deliver future value for our shareholders.
1 Source: Compeer Limited XO Quarterly Benchmarking Report Quarter 2 2016 andQuarter 2 2017.
16 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Net new business One of the first companies to launch the Lifetime ISA 6.9 billion Developing our client offering We continually look to enhance the offering that we provide to Expanding our digital footprint is a key strategic drive: we received clients, and 2017 was no exception.
Having identified that clients 138.4 million digital visits for the year to June 2017 up 31% on last wanted to trade shares more, we also established that, for some year.
An important enhancement this year was the launch of our people, their levels of confidence in doing so were low.
new mobile app in February.
Mobile functionality is no longer an Consequently we developed two equity funds: the HL Select UK optional extra, it is essential for people who want to manage their Growth Shares fund and HL Select UK Income Shares fund.
The app has been well received and we are getting innovation was to increase the communication and engagement great feedback from users.
We have now had over 486,000 with participating clients, allowing them to gain insight into the downloads, and the additional functionality that enables clients to management of a share portfolio.
As at the end of the year, place cash with us has resulted in 72 million being added to the 525 million was invested in these funds.
We were also one of the Vantage platform.
The introduction of Touch ID as a means to login first to launch the Lifetime ISA LISA.
Having been uncertain as to has also seen a change in client behaviour with more frequent demand for this, we surveyed our clients, determined there was real engagement with their investments.
As a result, we now see more interest and went live just after midnight on 6 April 2017.
We now digital contact from mobile devices and app visits than through our have 14,550 LISA clients with 36 million of invested assets, with traditional desktop site.
half of these clients being new to the business.
I am always impressed at how Hargreaves Lansdown listens to its clients and With all of this in mind, I want to recognise the hard work and pulls together to provide solutions that help.
commitment of my colleagues throughout the business and thank them.
They have strived this year to deliver incredible service to Our desire to bring market leading propositions to our clients is clients in the face of significant increases in activity and have critical to our ongoing success.
We remain excited by the potential alsomanaged to develop the range and extent of the services of Active Savings, our upcoming cash management service and we weprovide.
are targeting a live proposition which is ready to launch around the end of the year.
This has taken longer to launch than originally Delivering our strategy anticipated due to the significant technology development required.
As the new Chief Executive, my challenge is to drive the next phase This is essential as we are determined that Active Savings must of Hargreaves Lansdowns growth.
Our vision is to be a household deliver the same levels of client service as our existing offering.
name and the best place for savers and investors in the UK.
This Thisyear we took the tough decision to drop our plans to set up means investment in our people, marketing and technology as apeer-to-peer lending platform.
Peer-to-peer is an interesting area Hargreaves Lansdown continues to grow and add clients.
During and we can see the attraction to selected investors, however, the the year, we deepened our people focus with work on leadership market size remains relatively small compared to the other exciting and development, our reward structure, culture and succession opportunities we have in front of us.
We have worked hard to build on feedback from our We have seen a significant increase in client activity this year.
The colleague survey and improve engagement.
We have also number of calls, applications, transfers, trades and other client commenced a broader initiative to bring our values, the enthusiasm instructions have all increased and we have continued to invest in for client service and pride in working for Hargreaves Lansdown to the resources to maintain client satisfaction with their experience.
the heart of how people work here.
Our IT is scalable and has coped well with the events of the last We have a leading brand and reputation in marketing.
In 2017, we year, including the general election.
Our client and asset retention have particularly been looking at how we use digital marketing and levels remain high at 94.7% and 93.2% respectively and it is SM 2 client segmentation to improve the effectiveness of spend across pleasing that our Net Promoter Score is at an all-time high.
We believe these are sources of competitive Wecontinue to strive to provide an incredible level of client service advantage and will continue to invest in them where we can see the in all that we do.
We have also reviewed our marketing team and restructured it to focus more actively in these areas, concluding that we will expand it to embrace the opportunities that new technology brings.
2 Net Promoter, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered service marksandNet Promoter Score and Net Promoter Systems are service marks ofBain&Company Inc. Satmetrix Systems, Inc. and Fred Reichheld.
17 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Effective investment in technology is also key.
In February, we took the decision to set up HL Tech in Warsaw, Poland to leverage the considerable IT development talent located there.
Our aim is to have 50 developers up and running during 2018, enabling us to push forward with improvements and developments to our services at afaster pace.
Equally, businesses must ensure that they have resources allocated to, and continually adapting their response to cyber attack, and we continue to invest heavily here.
Ensuring the security of our clients assets is the most important thing we do.
Looking forward I am pleased that we have delivered strong 2017 results in an environment where the UK has many challenges.
Global politics are unsettled, our position with Europe in a state of flux and markets continue to be uncertain.
Unfortunately, this state of affairs is set to continue for a while yet.
At the same time, society is going through long-term changes in demographics meaning that people are older for longer.
Pension arrangements are moving from defined benefit to defined contributions, where individuals must take responsibility for managing their financial future, and over a longer period.
People are not making sufficient provision for this so the country has a 3 long-term savings gap of an estimated 314 billion.
Offering great value and an incredible service At a time where people need to be taking greater involvement with their finances, pensions and savings are increasingly more complicated.
The advent of pension freedoms, the challenges of drawdown, the complexity of lifetime and annual allowance pension caps, new dividend and savings tax structures and six different forms of ISA have all made it more difficult.
Our purpose is to empower people to save and invest with confidence.
We achieve this by continuing to place our clients at the centre of what we do: offering them great value, incredible service, making it easy and efficient for them to manage their savings and investments in a secure environment, and establishing a lifelong relationship with them as a partner.
44% of UK investors now claim to deal with their investments themselves, up from 29% in late 4 2013.
This is a significant opportunity for Hargreaves Lansdown.
We might have a 38% share of the execution-only D2C platform market but in the wider accessible investment market of over 1.1trillion, in which we already operate, we have a much smaller share and an even smaller share of the relevant 2.4 trillion savings and investment pool.
Our scale combined with our expertise and capabilities places us in pole position to be able to provide thishelp.
Chris Hill Chief Executive Officer 14 August 2017 3 Mind the Gap Aviva and Deloitte, September 16.
4 Source: Platforum UK D2C Guide July 2017.
18 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
