Strategic report Review of 2017 This was a record year for revenue and whilst there was a boost from Performance Overview currency due to the Sterling weakening following the UK vote to leave the It was a very good year for Renishaw EU, there was still underlying growth at constant exchange rates of 14%.
with record revenue for the Group and All product lines experienced growth, strong growth in both revenue and including strong growth for the position encoder line, which benefited from profit compared to the previous year.
strong investments in the electronics Investment for long-term business growth sector in the Far East.
This provided us with the confidence to continue our continued, including the recruitment ongoing investments for the long-term and training of skilled people, new sustainability of the Group, including global marketing and distribution product development, manufacturing infrastructure, the recruitment and capacity and global marketing and training of skilled employees and new product development and distribution infrastructure.
The year saw continuing high levels of capital investment in the development and refurbishment of property.
The new 133,000 sq ft headquarters facility for Renishaw, Inc. was completed and is occupied, allowing us to consolidate operations from two existing sites, including the 37,500 sq ft former headquarters building which was sold for US$3.2m.
The new building at West Dundee, Illinois, is much better aligned to our solutions provider strategy with excellent customer demonstration and training facilities.
In the USA we also completed a new 20,000 sq ft building in Detroit, Michigan, for Renishaw Advanced Consulting and Engineering, Inc. a business that we acquired in 2014 to help support sales of CMM products and Equator gauging systems in the USA.
A small office has also been established in California to support customers within the electronics sector.
D Renishaw Additive Manufacturing D Renishaw products, such as the SPRINT scanning system, are meeting market Solutions Centres provide a secure development environment.
needs for ever-tighter production tolerances.
36 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information During the year, refurbishment of We continued to invest in our global us to win significant business in this existing premises in Italy, France Paris IT infrastructure to support all the new sector.
With ever-shorter lead times and Sweden was completed, whilst in and refurbished facilities, including demanded by this market, our ongoing Spain, our subsidiary for the Spanish ongoing investments in regional data investments in manufacturing capacity and Portuguese markets relocated centres to improve performance across have given us an agile capability to a new facility close to Barcelona, our subsidiary network.
that allows us to quickly respond to which has given them three times such demands.
The skills agenda continues to be a the space of their former building.
major topic of conversation amongst As well as strong trade in the Far East As well as a new showroom which engineering and science-based electronics sector, on a global basis follows the highly successful template businesses, with strong competition we are continuing to see ongoing of the Renishaw Innovation Centre, for the best talent that will ensure investment in production systems the new Spanish office includes an the future success of the business.
and processes, including automation, additive manufacturing lab which We continue to work hard regionally aided by an increasing awareness of includes material development facilities and nationally to promote engineering the benefits to be gained by adopting and post-processing equipment for as a desirable career and Renishaw Industry 4.0 and Smart Factory 3D-printed metal parts.
The ongoing as a desirable employer see CSR philosophies see pages 2627. investment in infrastructure to support report pages 5463 on Education and Key sectors such as aerospace, our additive manufacturing business Community.
With such a competitive automotive and energy require also saw the formal opening of our first environment for skilled people, we were Renishaw systems to meet their need North American Additive Manufacturing very pleased to again be recognised for ever tighter production tolerances Solutions Centre AMSC in November for our graduate recruitment by and cost controls.
Based in Kitchener, Canada The JobCrowd a UK graduate job and close to our existing office, it is Strategy review website.
We received a Highly one of a global network that is being To meet our key strategic aims, we Commended Award for the benefits established to increase the adoption of continued to make investments, package offered to graduates, rated AM technology by providing a secure which this year included focusing on second behind winner Volkswagen development environment in which enhancing our ability to demonstrate UK.
We have a planned intake of our customers can expand their AM our products and their applications, 45 graduates and 48 apprentices knowledge and confidence to enable it the infrastructure to support our this summer, whilst our in-house to be deployed in their own facilities for additive manufacturing business, our academy delivered 3,050 training volume production.
manufacturing capabilities to meet the days 2016: 6,500, with the reduction strong growth in business, and our primarily due to changes to our continuing drive to develop a strong graduate induction and apprenticeship market presence in both established programmes, which meant that less and emerging markets.
time was spent with the academy in favour of more on-the job training.
We continued to invest heavily in R&D During the year there were various to create strong market positions awards for Renishaw including the through technology leadership, prestigious Company of the Year award with 78.0m before net capitalised presented at the 2016 NMI awards development costs and the R&D NMI is the UK trade association tax credit expenditure on R&D and representing the electronic systems, engineering during the year.
We filed 27 D Demonstration area at new facility near microelectronics and semiconductor new patent applications and there were Barcelona, Spain.
There were also 74 previously filed applications granted In Mexico, work is nearing completion awards for products, including the this year.
of a new building that will provide XM-60 multi-axis calibrator winning Another important aspect of our expansion space for sales and the German MM Award for Innovation strategy is to utilise our existing marketing operations.
In October in the Measuring Systems category technologies across different product 2016, a new 11,800 sq ft office in and a TASIA The Analytical Scientist lines: for example, the Z-axis on Taiwan was formally opened, allowing Innovation Award 2016 award for our our new RenAM500M additive enhanced commercial and technical LiveTrack focus-tracking technology manufacturing system, and the support to customers through for Raman imaging.
new REVO-2 measuring head see product showrooms, training and page 35 all incorporate our optical Market conditions demonstration facilities.
Our MODUS metrology As reported last year, we were already In the UK, we continued to expand software platform, initially created for seeing a favourable environment for our manufacturing facilities, with CMM applications, is also increasingly our position encoders line due to further expenditure on plant and being applied across our metrology new investments in LED manufacture equipment to enable the Group to lines, and during the year, a new and the semiconductor sector.
meet the demands of a record order group was created to focus on its These investments have continued book.
Following refurbishment, the future development.
this year and have been boosted Old Town site in Wotton-under-Edge is by a major investment cycle in flat During the year we established a now being used as an R&D facility for panel display FPD manufacture in new subsidiary in Turkey to expand metrology product development, whilst the Far East, where a combination our marketing, sales, service and at the Miskin site in South Wales, the of the right products, backed up by distribution infrastructure in this Healthcare Centre of Excellence was our excellent reputation for customer growing economy.
formally opened by the First Minister of service, including delivery and Wales in September 2016. engineering support, has enabled 37
