12 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Chief Executives statement Performance review We delivered organic net sales up 4.3%, driven Chief Executives by organic volume up 1.1% and strong price mix with broad based growth across categories statement and regions.
Organic operating margin expanded by 37bps driven by our global productivity programme and positive mix.
Reported net sales and operating profit were up 15% and 25% respectively, reflecting favourable exchange and accelerated organic growth.
Operating profit grew 5.6% on an organic basis.
All regions delivered organic net sales growth and we reported broad based growth across all categories, except vodka.
Our global giant brands delivered organic net sales up 3%, with Johnnie Walker, Captain Morgan, Baileys and Tanqueray in growth in every region.
Smirnoff organic net sales were down 1%, still challenged in a competitive vodka category in the US, and Guinness organic net sales were flat, impacted by weakness in Nigeria and Kenya.
Earnings per share before exceptional We continue to build a stronger, more consistent, items was up significantly at 21% driven by better performing company.
We are delivering exchange benefits, organic growth and higher associate income.
against our strategy and this is coming through Our focus on cash conversion and in our performance.
We built on the improved working capital contributed to deliver free cash flow at 2.7 billion, up 566 million in performance we announced last year.
Our cash conversion continues to be strong at 107%.
Ivan Menezes, Chief Executive A year of progress We made good progress against the three focus areas we identified for the year: US spirits, scotch and India.
Organic net sales growth in US spirits, scotch and India were 3.4%, 4.7% and 1.9% respectively.
I am pleased with the momentum we built in the scotch category during the year, and, in the US, share gains were achieved in all key categories, except vodka.
In India, we experienced a challenging environment with demonetisation and the Supreme Court ruling, banning sales by outlets near highways.
When I laid out our Performance Ambition, the most important change I wanted to drive was to put the consumer at the heart of the business and we have made great progress: Volume Organic volume Net sales Organic net Operating profit Organic operating movement movement movement sales movement movement profit movement 1.7% 1.1% 14.9% 4.3% 25.3% 5.6% 2016: 0.1% 2016: 1.3% 2016: 3.0% 2016: 2.8% 2016: 1.6% 2016: 3.5% S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t Chief Executives statement DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 We are better equipped to win at the Productivity programme on track how one wrong decision can have Diageo delivers operating margins that devastating consequences.
Johnnie Walker moment of choice with increased outlet coverage and better sales execution are among the highest in our peer group.
also published a 360 Decisions video online Investment in our business remains our which has been viewed more than 14 million Our work on gathering improved insight times.
This supports the brands Join The number one value creator.
By focusing and measurement is enabling us to make on costs and efficiency, our productivity Pact initiative, which has so far attracted better, more informed decisions, and sets programme is aiding this investment, 3.1 million pledges to never drink and drive, us up well for the future creating the fuel to build our brands, innovate and has delivered around 1.8 million We are a more agile organisation kilometres of safe rides home.
and strengthen our route to consumer.
simpler and quicker able to adapt more We are pleased with the progress we have This year we continued our longstanding quickly to changing consumer trends made with our productivity programme.
This commitment to give consumers information We bring an efficiency mindset to enabled us to increase our marketing spend to make informed choices.
In March 2017, we everything we do developed a new, mobile friendly e-learning in the US in the second half of this financial year.
In financial year 2018, we are committed version of our DRINKiQ training, which has This progress builds on the strength we to increasing investment further in the US helped us surpass our target of reaching one have in our portfolio of iconic brands and our and also in scotch, as we seek to sustain our million adults with training materials that track record in innovation.
I am proud that will enable them to become responsible mid-single digit organic net sales growth.
The our brands won 66 awards at the 2017 progress we have made also allowed us to drinking ambassadors.
San Francisco World Spirits Competition, announce in July 2017 that we had raised our Employee safety continues to be an more than a third of which were Gold or productivity goal, over the three years ending every day priority for us.
We are focused on Double Gold.
This not only included great markets in particular need of improvement, 30 June 2019, to 700 million with two-thirds recognition for established brands such as being reinvested in the business.
embedding compliance to our core Buchanans Special Reserve, Johnnie Walker standards and programmes.
We continue to Green Label and Lagavulin 16 Year Old, but Our role in society make good progress on our environmental also for innovations such as our premium KPIs, improving on carbon and water A crucial component of our business Irish whiskey Roe & Co, launched to strategy is ensuring that we continue to efficiency by 6% and 3% respectively.
consumers in Europe this year.
make a positive contribution to society.
Our As we grow our business, our priority is Chairman, Javier, in his statement, sets out Our people to invest behind organic growth.
We also I am very proud of Diageos culture.
As I travel our approach and I am pleased that we have look for bolt-on acquisitions that will deliver reported further progress against our 2020 around the business, I am always energised by attractive returns and expand our leadership sustainability and responsibility targets.
the passion our people have for our strategy position.
For example, in June 2017, we Ensuring alcohol has a positive role in and for delivering our Performance Ambition.
announced the acquisition of Casamigos, the I would like to thank everyone at Diageo for society as part of a balanced lifestyle is vitally fastest growing super-premium tequila brand important to everyone at Diageo.
We are their commitment and hard work during the in the US.
This is an exciting opportunity for committed to tackling alcohol misuse, year.
The strong connection my 30,400 us to strengthen our participation in the US including through our implementation of colleagues have to Diageo and our brands, tequila category, as well as expand the brand purpose and values is evident in our annual the Global Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers internationally.
The transaction is expected Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking, employee survey results.
Our people are to close in the second half of calendar 2017, a partnership of the worlds largest alcohol highly engaged, which provides a strong subject to regulatory clearances.
In addition, companies coming together to take action.
platform to amplify our purpose and drive Distill Ventures, the Diageo-backed and enhanced performance.
We continue to improve the ways we funded accelerator programme for measure and manage the programmes we entrepreneurs, offers us the opportunity to support.
We supported fewer alcohol in Outlook invest in nascent brands with growth potential.
society programmes than last year as we Today, Diageo is a great blend of every day efficiency and investment for growth in our aimed to concentrate our efforts on those 2017 net sales by category % that will have the biggest impact on the issues brands.
I am pleased with our progress in we aim to address.
As with our marketing more disciplined execution and the improved work, the focus on evaluating the impact of agility we have across the business.
Our increased productivity goal underpins an our programmes is sharpening our capacity to deliver real benefits at scale, often through improved organic operating margin partnerships with other stakeholders.
expansion objective of 175bps over the three This year, for example, we began our two years ending 30 June 2019.
The expectation of mid-single digit organic net sales growth in year partnership with the UN Institute for Training and Research UNITAR aimed at the same period continues.
We feel confident reducing death and injuries from traffic about building on the positive momentum in accidents in more than 60 countries, with a the business as we continue to progress towards achieving our Performance Ambition.
focus on those with the highest road traffic Scotch 25% Ready to drink 6% Beer 16% IMFL Whisky 5% death rates.
Together we ran road safety Vodka 12% Liqueurs 5% workshops in Mexico, Nigeria, South Africa North American 9% Gin 3% and South Korea.
We also introduced a Whisk e y Tequila 2% Rum 7% Other 10% virtual reality experience called Decisions.
This experience places viewers in the front Ivan Menezes seat of a drink driving accident and shows Chief Executive
