Group Chief Executives review We are delighted to report another year of good growth for DS Smith, delivered through a combination of acquisitions and organic development.
We have again expanded our customer offering during the year both geographically and through our continuous focus on innovative solutions for our customers, and we have delivered against all our medium-term financial targets.
Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive Corrugated box volumes have grown by 3.2 per cent, on a like-forlike basis, with good momentum in the second half of the year.
All Creating sustainable regions have shown growth, with particularly good growth from the UK, which has seen more benefit from e-commerce customers, value for our and from the Central Europe and Italy region.
This rate of growth is ahead of our target of volume growth of GDP 1 per cent, which equates to 2.8 per cent.
The contribution from our pan-European shareholders customers has continued to be very good, with growth well ahead of the Group average.
This has been due to unique innovation and service offerings coupled with an expanded geographic coverage.
This demand is part of a continuing trend that we are seeing Overview among customers who are seeking to reduce their overall supply In the financial year 2016 17, DS Smith has once again delivered chain costs by sourcing their materials, such as packaging, from on all our financial metrics, with continued strong organic volume fewer, strategic suppliers.
This is why we are investing in our growth.
The business has also continued to expand, with five geographic coverage such as the new additions in Iberia and acquisitions completed in the year for a total of 85 million, both in specialist packaging such as display packaging, where we are consolidating our presence in the important growth region of seeing a similar trend.
Our long-standing approach of working Iberia and expanding our capability in the specialist sector of with customers to increase their sales, reduce their costs and display packaging.
Integration of our acquisitions is fully on track manage their risks, remains as relevant as ever.
and the customer and employee reactions have been extremely For the full-year, revenue growth of 6 per cent was broadly positive.
In addition to delivering against all our financial KPIs, we equally weighted between the contribution from organic growth have also made further improvements to our non-financial metrics.
and from acquired businesses net of disposals, which contributed We have delivered another annual reduction, of 19 per cent, in our 3 per cent growth each on a constant currency basis.
Organic accident frequency rate, our service levels are further improving, growth was predominantly driven by corrugated box volume and we have again seen reductions in our emissions of growth, and by volume growth from other elements of the greenhouse gases per tonne of production.
business, along with improved sales price mix.
The impact of foreign exchange FX translation boosted reported revenue by 432 million or 11 per cent over the year as a whole, reflecting the material devaluation of sterling following the EU referendum in June 2016.
28 Strategic report Adjusted operating profit increased by 5 per cent on a constant Return on average Earnings per share currency basis to 443 million 17 per cent on a reported basis, capital employed driven by the contribution from volume growth, contributing 32.5p 9 per cent growth 38 million, and from the net contribution 14.9% of businesses acquired and disposed of, contributing 2 per cent 2015 16: 27.4p growth 10 million.
Input cost increases were driven by a rise 2015 16: 15.4% in the cost of raw materials and other operating costs, which impacted profit by 36 million.
The weakening of sterling in the year resulted in an increase in In November 2016 we acquired Gopaca, a well-invested corrugated profits of 43 million on translation.
packaging business in Portugal, with c. 135 employees.
This Adjusted earnings per share increased by 7 per cent on a acquisition expanded our position in the Iberian peninsula and constant currency basis to 32.5 pence 19 per cent on a reported complemented the operations we have in this important region.
This result builds on six years of More recently, in January 2017, we acquired Parish, a plastics consistently strong growth, with the seven year compound bag-in-box business complementary to our existing operations annual growth rate for adjusted EPS being 28 per cent.
The Board considers the dividend to be an important component Integration of acquisitions remains an absolute focus in the of shareholder returns and, as such, has a policy to deliver a Group and we have an experienced team with well-established progressive dividend, where dividend cover is between 2.0 and processes to ensure successful integration.
Communicating 2.5 times, through the cycle.
For the year 2016 17, the Board corporate values and developing a positive corporate culture recommends a final dividend of 10.6 pence, which together with both within our existing Group and to newly acquired businesses the interim dividend of 4.6 pence gives a total dividend for the is vital to delivering sustainable value and in order to achieve year of 15.2 pence per share 2015 16: 12.8 pence per share.
This this, immediately upon completion of an acquisition, we hold represents an increase of 19 per cent on the prior year and cover an integration event for the senior management of the acquired of 2.1 times in relation to earnings per share before amortisation business along with key individuals from DS Smith.
Building on the and exceptional items.
due diligence undertaken prior to ownership, we then spend an initial period refining the business plan, taking into account the input of the local management team.
We will also implement Investment in the business OWN IT!, our employee engagement programme which helps DS Smith remains ambitious to grow both through continued colleagues around the organisation understand their part in organic investment and through acquisition.
The success of delivering the corporate strategy.
our pan-European customer strategy demonstrates that there is significant customer demand for high quality packaging and We have continued to invest in our assets ahead of depreciation, consistent service on a multinational basis, and as such we with net capex of 226 million 2015 16: 201 million.
We are continue to see this as a major opportunity.
All investment in investing to support our strategic priorities, with over 40 per cent the business must fulfil our strategic and financial criteria.
Our invested in growth projects, in particular in the UK, south eastern strategic aim is to become the leader in sustainable packaging Europe and Iberia, supporting our customer growth and solutions.
In order to achieve this we will continue to seek to commitment to high quality production.
extend our reach, as driven by customer demand, and further improve the quality of our service and products.
Scale allows us to invest in innovation and design, with the benefit shared throughout the business and with our customers.
We have made further steps this year to expand our scale and breadth of service in key growth areas, such as display packaging, following on from the prior year when we substantially increased our geographic scope.
In the year, we have acquired three specialist businesses focused on display packaging and point of sale, being Creo acquired in June 2016, based in the UK, Deku-Pack acquired in September 2016, based in Denmark and P&I Display acquired in November 2016, based in Portugal.
This, combined with the opening of a new state of the art point of sale and display production facility in Germany, is part of a strategy to offer a pan-European solution for display packaging, alongside other corrugated packaging.
We expect this to be an area of strong growth as in-store marketing continues to grow rapidly.
com 29 Group Chief Executives review continued DS Smith is committed to providing all employees with a safe Delivering on our medium-term targets and productive working environment.
We are pleased to report and key performance indicators a further substantial improvement in our safety record, with We have again delivered against all our key performance indicators our accident frequency rate defined as the number of lost over the full-year.
As explained above, corrugated box volumes time accidents per million hours worked reducing by a further grew by 3.2 per cent.
This exceeded our target of GDP 1 per cent, 19per cent from 3.2 to 2.6, reflecting our ongoing commitment with year-on-year GDP growth, weighted by our sales in the to best practice in health and safety.
This follows the substantial markets in which we operate, estimated at 1.8 per cent Source: improvement in the prior years, such that the accident frequency Eurostat resulting in a 40 basis point outperformance against rate is now 46 per cent lower than in 2013 14.
We are pleased to the target of 2.8 per cent.
All regions have again recorded volume report that 207 sites achieved our target of zero accidents this growth in the year, with a particularly strong contribution from year and we continue to strive for zero accidents for the Group the UK and from Central Europe and Italy, including businesses as a whole.
acquired in the prior year.
Underlying the regional performances has been the growth of our pan-European customer base, where The Group has a challenging target for customer service of we continue to make significant gains with existing customers as 97per cent on-time, in-full deliveries.
In the year we achieved we increase our market share with them, further demonstrating 93per cent, an improvement versus the prior year, but still below the demand for a high quality pan-European supplier of corrugated our target.
Management remains dissatisfied with this outcome packaging, operating on a co-ordinated multinational basis.
and is fully committed to delivering the highest standards of service, quality and innovation to all our customers and will Adjusted return on sales has remained at 9.3 per cent, in the upper continue to set ourselves the demanding standards our half of our target range of 8 to 10 per cent, reflecting the benefit customers expect.
of good drop-through from incremental revenues into profit, offset by substantial input cost pressure over the period.
One part of the DS Smith strategy is to lead the way in sustainability.
Corrugated packaging is a key part of the Adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE on a sustainable economy, providing essential protection to products constant currency basis is 14.9 per cent, at the top end of our as they are transported, and at the end of use, it is fully recyclable.
medium-term target range of 12 to 15 per cent and significantly Corrugated packaging is also substantially constructed from above our cost of capital.
This represents the expected small recycled material, as are many of our plastic packaging products.
decline compared to the prior year which reflects the impact of Our Recycling business works with customers across Europe to capital invested in recently acquired businesses: acquisitions improve their recycling operations and overall environmental typically move into our target ROACE range over a three-year performance.
In calendar 2016, compared to calendar 2015, period, and, as such, can be dilutive to the overall Group returns on a restated basis to reflect acquisitions, our CO equivalent 2 initially.
The ongoing high ROACE reflects significant focus on emissions, relative to production, have reduced by 7.0 per cent.
an efficient capital base, in addition to profitability.
We have Our targets on sustainability were first set in 2010, when the maintained our continual focus on tight capital allocation and DS Smith business was very substantially smaller than it is now.
management within the business, including working capital, The target to deliver a 20 per cent reduction in CO equivalent 2 which has shown further improvement this year, despite the emissions relative to production, has already been achieved, growth of the business.
ROACE is our primary financial measure as has our target on water usage, and we are on track to achieve of success, and is measured and calculated on a monthly basis.
our target on waste to landfill.
As a result, we are taking the opportunity to restate our sustainability targets to set Net debt has remained broadly unchanged, despite the material impact of FX on the translation of euro-denominated debt, to ourselves new challenges, with more detail to follow in our Sustainability Report.
1,092 million 30 April 2016: 1,099 million while net debt EBITDA calculated in accordance with our banking covenant requirements has improved to 1.8 times 2015 16: 2.0 times Outlook reflecting the currency matching of debt to cash flow.
This is in The current year has started well, with progress from 2016 17 line with our medium-term financial KPI of a ratio of 2.0 times continuing into the new financial year.
Full recovery of the recent or below and reflects the acquisitions made as well as ongoing paper price rises is progressing well and as expected.
tight cash management and control throughout the business.
Although economic conditions remain uncertain, our innovationDuring the year, the Group generated free cash flow led offering and the scale of our business means that we are of 363 million 2015 16: 238 million.
Cash conversion confident about further growth and sustainable returns in was 133 per cent, in line with our target of being at or the years ahead.
Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive 30
