STRATEGIC REPORT Chief executives review ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PERFORMANCE Performance summary Total revenue grew 6.9% to a record high of 2,216.5m, driven by another good performance from the underlying business and by the additional seven weeks of Spirit trading in comparison with last year.
1,2 EBITDA surpassed 500m for the first time in the companys history, reaching 524.1m, up 5.5% on last year.
1,2 Operating profit before exceptional and non-underlying items was up 4.9% 1,2 at 411.5m while the operating margin decreased 0.3%pts to 18.6%.
Thiscomprised a positive contribution from Spirit synergies, offset by brand conversion costs and the more challenging cost environment.
1,2 Pub Company delivered LFL sales growth of 1.5%, outperforming the 3 market by 0.4%pts.
Total sales growth in Pub Company was 7.7%, while operating profit grew 3.0% to 308.1m.
11 new pubs were opened during the year while 65 disposals were completed.
2 Pub Partners revenue was up 5.8% to 198.8m and LFL net profit growth 1,2 was up 5.0%.
Average EBITDA per pub increased 7.9%, reflecting further GROUP REVENUE WAS: improvements in estate quality as a result of the Spirit acquisition, the disposal of 54 pubs from the combined estate and synergy contribution.
2,216.5m Brewing & Brands achieved revenue of 200.3m in the year, up 1.7%.
OBV was down 2.8%, in line with the total ale market and beating the cask ale market.
Our share of the UK cask ale market was 10.3%.
Operating profit OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE was down 5.2% to 31.0m and operating profit margin was down 1.1%pts EXCEPTIONALITEMS AND to 15.5%.
Factors impacting profit conversion included increased cost of NONUNDERLYING ITEMS WAS UP: goods sold and investment in marketing and price, mainly in the second half of the year.
4.9% The integration of Spirit was completed a year early with annual cost synergy realisation of 35m.
2 The group delivered strong free cash flow from operations of 119.6m and ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS we again covered our debt service obligation, core capital expenditure and PERSHAREGREW: 1,2 dividend from internally generated cash.
Adjusted earnings per share grew 1.3% to 70.8p and we have recommended 1.3% a 3.6% increase in the dividend per share, maintaining our long-term progressive dividend policy.
2 The business achieved another year of strong returns, generating a ROCE of 9.4%, which remains comfortably above our weighted average cost of capital WACC.
Adjusted measures exclude the impact of exceptional and non-underlying items asdetailed in note 3 of this statement.
The directors use a number of alternative performance measures APMs that are considered critical to aid understanding of the groups performance.
Key measures areexplained on page 127 of this report.
Source: Coffer Peach Tracker, 52 weeks to end of April 2017.
12 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT As well as the macro themes evident over the last year, we have also seen Trading environment a number of developing consumer trends within the eating and drinking out Consumer confidence in the UK has softened over the last 12 months sectors.
Consumers are raising their expectations for their eating and drinking with nominal wage growth starting to fall behind rising levels of cost out experiences, particularly in the value, quality, service and environment inflation leading to a squeeze on disposable household income.
While of the offer, while they are also increasingly seeking out healthier options spending on essentials has held up, discretionary spending has started to in their food and drink options.
The digitalisation of leisure continues to fall.
Within this, we believe that affordable treats such as visits to the pub develop at pace, with digital channels becoming increasingly important will continue to play an important role in consumer discretionary spending.
ingetting closer to the consumer and in growing market share.
We are We anticipate that this challenging environment will intensify over the next active in using our scale, following the Spirit integration, to continue to few years, partly due to the ongoing political and economic uncertainty invest in areas to ensure we meet consumer expectations going forward.
If this is the case, we think our business model is well placed tooutperform the market: Pub Company has good national coverage with At the same time that the consumer is becoming more demanding, the abias towards London and the South East: we operate pubs in the value, cost environment has become more challenging.
Regulatory pressures mainstream and premium sectors: and we have a good mix of sales between including the National Living Wage, the Apprenticeship Levy and business drink, food and rooms.
In addition, 30% of our profits come from our rates, compounded by inflation and foreign exchange costs, are impacting cash-generative non-retail businesses, Pub Partners and Brewing & Brands.
margins across the hospitality industry.
We are at an advantage in that wehave the benefits of the Spirit acquisition and integration to help offset these cost pressures but we shall also seek out opportunities for further cost savings.
Our business model Due in some degree to the cost pressures described above, competition for market share is intensifying and broadening.
We are the leading pub is well placed company in an eating and drinking out market that is expected to grow 1 7.2%, or 6.2bn, over the next few years.
At the same time, it is expected that the local, wet-led pub sector will see an ongoing decline in the number to outperform of pubs, following falls of 12.5%, 8.2% and 12.5% in England, Scotland and 2 Wales since 2011.
Competition for wet-led pubs comes predominantly from the off-trade, where we are seeing continued discounting being used the market.
Competition for our food-led destination pubs comes from the increasing supply of food-led outlets, expected to increase 1.9% 1 between 2017 and 2020, but also from the night in, supported by better home comforts, value offers from grocers and growth in delivery and takeaway aggregator sites.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief executives review continued Integration The integration of Following the acquisition of Spirit in June 2015, we have managed to complete its integration in just two years, one year ahead of the original schedule.
This integration has created a much stronger business and a better platform Spirit has created for long-term growth and outperformance.
There have been four key elements to the physical integration of Greene King and Spirit: a better platform 1.
C ost synergies having originally targeted annual cost synergies of 30m within three years, we subsequently upgraded the target to for long-term growth 35m and we have managed to meet that target within two years.
The main elements of the cost synergies included savings through overheads, purchasing and distribution.
We may be able to generate and outperformance.
additional synergies from the acquisition and these could be used to both invest in key areas of our business, such as people, systems and brands, and to offset some of the cost increases we are experiencing.
I T systems we have seamlessly rolled out the Pub Company IT system into over 1,700 pubs.
We have also developed a single database for the combined business which is now in use and which is increasing customer insight while significantly improving efficiencies.
D istribution the Spirit and Greene King food supply chains have been consolidated.
Over 1,000 pubs have successfully changed their supply model with no impact on availability to menu items.
We have also finished consolidating our non-food supply chain and our integrated drinks supply chain is in place.
The integration of supply chains will enable us to optimise our network and improve group efficiency.
O rganisation structures we have completed an organisational restructure of the wider group, including reorganising the functions and teams within Pub Company to better align to our focus brands and combining the leadership of Pub Partners and Brewing & Brands.
We believe this will enable further development of our focus brands, as well as delivering cost efficiencies and further synergies from the combined management of the non-retail divisions.
We have also appointed a new chief commercial officer, who joined from Reckitt Benckiser and is responsible for all Greene Kings retail commercial activities across both the marketing and trading functions, and a new group HR director who joins us from Brakes in October.
14 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT With the integration complete, we can increase focus on our brand We also made a donation of 15,000 to Pub is The Hubs Community optimisation strategy.
This strategy is targeted at creating efficiencies through Services Fund in order to help support rural pubs that want to diversify having a smaller number of larger pub retail brands including the five focus their services for the benefit of their communities.
This is the fourth year brands of Greene King Locals, Hungry Horse, Flaming Grill, Farmhouse we have given to the fund, bringing the total donated to 60,000.
In the year, we spent 30.2m on brand conversions with 63 pubs successfully converted to more suitable brands within the Current trading combined Greene King portfolio.
The average sales uplift for these pubs In the first eight weeks of the year, Pub Company trading has been in isover 30%.
Looking ahead, we expect to make annual investments of linewith our expectations, bearing in mind the tough comparatives from 30m to 40m in brand conversions between FY18and FY20.
Pub Partners has seen a slower start to the year but this was anticipated as we start to annualise the benefits from the Spirit integration.
Community Brewing & Brands has returned to OBV growth with a strong start to We raised over 800,000 for Macmillan Cancer Support over the year theyear in the take home, free trade and export channels.
and, in May, the company reached a new fundraising milestone, having raised over 3m for the charity over our five-year partnership.
Greene King will now embark on its Miles for Macmillan campaign, in which the companys 44,000 team members and its guests are invited to walk, run, bike or swim Rooney Anand enough miles to reach the moon.
The impressive feat will see them cover a combined quarter of a million miles, taking part in marathons, a London Chief executive 28 June 2017 to Paris bike ride in July and a climb of Mount Kilimanjaro in October.
Last year, we announced our partnership with The Princes Trust, launching a new scheme giving unemployed young people an opportunity to develop skills in the hospitality sector, achieve accredited hospitality qualifications and apply for an internship at the group.
Nine programmes were completed this year, with 103 young people taking part and 49 offers of permanent employment made.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 15
