Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio By harnessing the power, reliability and exibility of SUSE solutions, our Introduction customers and partners are able to operate more efficiently, create new The SUSE Product Portfolio represented 22.0% of the total products and services faster and ultimately to compete better and win.
Group revenue in FY17 2016: pro-forma CCY revenue 18.0%.
In a world of rapid and continuous technology change, SUSE customers SUSE has continued with the mandate to deliver accelerated, can condently embrace new development and operational models such as Dev Ops, containers, Iaas and PaaS solutions while simultaneously leveraging sustainable and profitable revenue growth and has continued the benets of well-established mission critical paradigms and platforms.
to invest in the business to support this vision.
FY17 has been another successful year for SUSE with growth in revenue, The SUSE Product Portfolio comprises: Annual Contract Value ACV, Total Contract Value TCV and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA.
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server and Extensions SUSE Linux Enterprise Server SLES is the industrys original enterprise SUSE created additional capacity with the objective of sustainable profitable Linux distribution.
Optimized for mission-critical workloads, certied on all growth, by expanding the SUSE headcount across all of the key disciplines major hardware platforms and available for on demand use from the worlds and SUSE also completed two technology led acquisitions during the scal leading public cloud providers.
The SLES product family also includes year.
Closer alignment of critical support functions continued during the year, specialized extensions and services for High Availability clustering, as we aligned SUSE Services and SUSE Renewals to have dedicated leaders Real-time precision computing needs and Live Kernel Patching for reporting into SUSE Sales leadership.
In FY17, we continued to strengthen our maximizing system uptime.
partner eco system, with continued investment in broadening and deepening the partnership with Alliances, OEM, two tier distributors, value add resellers, SUSE OpenStack Cloud cloud service providers and system integrators.
We continue with our concerted SUSE OpenStack Cloud is an enterprise-grade solution for building and effort to broaden the ISV partnership and accredit SUSE offerings on critical managing highly scalable infrastructure as service private clouds.
The and relevant business applications.
SUSE continues to rely on sustained support for all major hardware platforms and hypervisors, automated growing contribution from these strategic partnerships for its overall success.
installation, non-disruptive upgrades and true high-availability conguration capabilities makes SUSE OpenStack Cloud the ideal solution for creating business-critical private clouds that are ready for todays software-dened Technology acquisitions during the year: compute, storage and networking needs.
During the year, SUSE acquired OpenStack IaaS and Cloud Foundry based PaaS technology from HPE together with a workforce of 105 Engineers.
This SUSE Enterprise Storage will strengthen SUSEs existing OpenStack Cloud IaaS offering and also Built on Ceph technology, SUSE Enterprise Storage is a resilient and SUSEs Cloud Foundry PaaS offering when brought to market.
The acquisition scalable software-dened storage solution.
Support for industry standard also enables SUSE to broaden its Original Equipment Maintenance OEM hardware combined with intelligent self-management and self-healing partnership with HPE to now include SUSEs OpenStack Infrastructure as a capabilities provides customers a feature-rich yet economically scalable Service IaaS, Enterprise Linux and Software Dened Storage solutions as solution for growing data needs.
well as fast track provision of more comprehensive offerings in the OpenStack IaaS and Cloud Foundry Platform as a Service PaaS space to all of its IHVs SUSE Manager and alliance partners.
SUSE Manager provides integrated management capabilities across the entire range of SUSE products and solutions whether they are deployed on SUSE also acquired distributed storage management technology from premise or in the cloud.
From server provisioning to application deployment, OpenATTIC together with eight Engineers, which was a group within IT Novum from automated patching to conguration management, SUSE Manager GmBH, a German registered company.
This will enable SUSE to strengthen simplies administration and enables the secure, compliant systems SUSE Enterprise Storage and its open source software dened distributed management practices todays enterprises require.
storage offering by adding advanced storage management capabilities to the solution.
SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop and Workstation Extension High quality Linux workstation solution designed for interoperability with We continued to extend SUSEs presence and contribution in key Open Source other operating systems and infrastructures including Windows, Mac projects and relevant industry groups both in support of strengthening our and UNIX.
contribution to Open Source innovation and development efforts as well as in support of our partner and enterprise customer relationships.
SUSE Container as a Service CaaS Platform SUSE CaaS Platform, is a development and hosting platform for SUSE container-based applications and services.
The solution lets IT operations SUSE provides and supports enterprise-grade Open Source software dened and developers provision, manage and scale container-based applications infrastructure solutions and Linux with exceptional service, value and exibility.
and services to improve business agility by adopting a software-dened Founded in 1992, for almost 20 years, SUSE has collaborated with partners infrastructure approach to support containerization of their existing and and Open Source communities to innovate, adapt and secure Open Source cloud native applications.
SUSE CaaS Platform consists of three key technologies and create solutions for the worlds most computer intensive and components orchestration using Kubernetes, a purpose-built operating data intensive IT environments across physical, virtual, containerized and system SUSE MicroOS for microservices and containers, and multi-cloud platforms.
Thousands of customers around the world rely on SUSE for their Open Source, software-dened infrastructure needs ranging from enterprise Linux to OpenStack private cloud to software dened, distributed storage and container based application delivery all combined with comprehensive management capabilities for the complete software dened infrastructure architecture.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio continued SUSE Product Portfolio OpenStack Private Cloud OpenStack has become the industrys clear Open Source standard for IaaS Open Source Software cloud with active engagement from dozens of leading IT companies and SUSE products and solutions are developed from Open Source technologies enterprises.
This technology provides a highly exible alternative to proprietary and brought to market with an Open Source business model.
Open Source solutions which both commercial companies and end-customer enterprises software source code is made available in the public domain under a number can directly engage with through the OpenStack project in addition to utilizing of different licensing models such as GPL which fosters collaboration and distributions such as SUSE OpenStack Cloud.
rapid innovation by developers around the world working as private individuals, for Enterprise customers and from within many of the industrys largest SUSE was a founding platinum member of the OpenStack Foundation and has IT companies.
held the Foundations board Chair position since its creation.
SUSE OpenStack Clouds streamlined installation capabilities, unattended upgrades, high SUSE actively utilizes and engages in a wide range of Open Source projects availability features and support for all leading hyper-visors makes it an ideal and related industry initiatives where we work together with communities and choice for enterprise private cloud.
partners to drive the new innovation and create meaningful industry standards.
These projects include the Linux Foundation, OpenStack, Ceph, Cloud Some of the key drivers creating demand for OpenStack private cloud solutions Foundry, openHPC, OPNFV, Open Mainframe Project, Open Container such as SUSE OpenStack Cloud include: Initiative, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation CNCF and many more.
Data center evolution to Software Dened Infrastructure SDI Additional detail can be found at: https: www.
com company open-source the next step beyond data center consolidation and virtualization is to embrace the exibility and agility of cloud capabilities such as self-service, Enterprise Linux direct integration with software-dened storage and networking.
Linux is one of the first and most successful Open Source software projects in the industry and has now become a well-established choice in the enterprise On demand services and business agility in a world that expects instant operating system market but also in numerous other use cases including access to everything, the ability to rapidly stand up new products and mobile devices, Internet of Things IoT, cloud computing, big data analytics services for both internal and external customers is essential to competing and more.
All of the industrys major software-dened infrastructure effectively.
innovations are being developed on and for the Linux operating system.
Cost and value traditional solutions lag in innovation and dont bring the SUSE was the industrys first provider of an enterprise distribution of the Linux economic scalability in both CAPEX and OPEX costs needed to support operating system and are the preferred choice on platforms such as IBM z modern business models the way Open Source solutions can.
Systems and for workloads such as SAP applications and SAP HANA.
Software-dened Storage Some of the key drivers behind the continued demand for enterprise Linux Enterprises across all industry segments and sizes are struggling to control solutions such as SUSE Linux Enterprise Server include: and manage the impact of explosive data growth at the very time that effectively using information is rapidly becoming the key to competitive UNIX to Linux migrations the movement of workloads from proprietary differentiation.
With more data to store in increasingly large and complex UNIX operating systems on specialized hardware to Linux on industry formats for longer periods of time, traditional storage solutions are not able standard hardware platforms but also IBM z Systems and Power.
to adequately address all the user cases and needs.
Data Center consolidation and virtualization maximizing hardware SUSE Storage, built on Ceph technology, is a unique solution with resilient investments by running multiple operating system instances on the same self-managing and self-healing capabilities combined with exibility to physical server.
dynamically utilize both existing hardware as well as todays latest industry standard hardware components.
Cloud computing infrastructure the most prevalent OS for the cloud infrastructure and also widely used as the OS for the workloads running Some of the key drivers creating demand for Open Source software-dened on the private and public clouds.
storage solutions like SUSE Storage include: High Performance Computing the worlds top supercomputing clusters Massive data growth more data volume, complex, large data formats and and the growing use of high performance computing systems leverage the requirements to keep data for longer periods of time for analytics and exibility and performance of Linux operating systems.
Software-dened innovations Linux has become the fide-facto standard Need for exibility and elasticity replacing traditional static storage OS for the industrys infrastructure software innovations from IoT, Big Data appliances when more capacity is needed is simply not tenable in many analytics and software-dened storage, IaaS and private cloud, Containers cases.
Enterprises require the ability to dynamically add capacity using and orchestration, PaaS, NFV and software-dened networking.
Cost and value traditional storage solutions are often not economically scalable when faced with the massive data growth, larger complex data formats and need for longer term storage.
28 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Some of the key drivers creating demand for Application Containers and Systems Management solutions like SUSE CaaS Platform include: For mid-sized or larger computing environments, comprehensive systems management is a critical factor that many enterprises still struggle to address.
Reduced time to market using out-of-the-box container platform Considering the complexity of multiple hardware platforms, a wide variety of capabilities that enable customers to implement container orchestration infrastructure technologies and the increasing use of combinations of on using production grade Kubernetes, deploy resilient container services, premise, hosted and public cloud resources, the business challenges are maximize portability, and develop in a trusted computing environment: significant as are the potential benets.
Increased operational efficiency with automation of deployment SUSE Manager is designed with a deep understanding of todays Linux-based, management tasks and full application lifecycle support of containers: and Open Source enterprise infrastructure technologies whether those are used on premise, virtualized or in a cloud deployment.
SUSE Manager is a powerful Faster and more automated application releases across different tool for integrated management and orchestrations of system provisioning, infrastructure.
Enablement of DevOps for improved application lifecycle monitoring, conguration management, automated patching all designed to management.
Bridging developers and operations using a single, unied support the most complex enterprise and supercomputing scale deployments.
container platform that helps save development and operations time.
Deployment of microservices and coexistence of conguration and code.
The key drivers behind the demand for systems management solutions like SUSE Manager include: SUSE Key Performance Metrics Managing complexity growth in systems physical, virtual and cloud and SUSE provides technical support together with rights to updates, patches new infrastructure technologies like IaaS, Containers, PaaS creates needs and security xes for its Open Source solutions on a subscription basis with for new management methodologies Dev Ops and new tooling revenues being recognized rateably over the period of the contract.
The key to manage effectively.
metrics are Revenue, TCV and ACV of the TCV.
The ACV represents the value of the first 12 months of each contract reported as TCV.
Maintaining security, Service Level Agreements SLAs and uptime to be most effective, systems and servers, wherever they are deployed, must Revenue be secure and able to meet stringent SLAs with maximum uptime.
The table below provides a breakdown of the revenue for the year and a comparison to FY16 on a pro-forma CCY basis and as reported.
Reducing Operating Expenses OPEX the days of manual systems management processes are past for any enterprise that needs to also innovate and compete.
Automation is essential to free up resources and SUSE Product Portfolio control systems management OPEX.
Year Year ended Year ended ended Meeting regulatory compliance requirements to stay compliant, 30 April 30 April 30 April enterprises must have comprehensive monitoring, conguration 2017 2016 2016 management controls and remediation capabilities in place.
As reported Pro-forma Growth As reported 1 Actual CCY Decline Actual $m $m % $m Application Containers Subscription 298.7 245.5 21.7% 248.9 Organizations can improve business agility by adopting a software-dened infrastructure approach to support containerization of their applications.
Consultancy 4.7 4.9 4.1% 4.9 Container innovation helps to develop and deploy next-generation, cloud native 303.4 250.4 21.2% 253.8 container-based applications and to progressively migrate traditional and existing apps.
SUSE CaaS Platform, is a development and hosting platform for container-based applications and services.
The solution lets IT operations and developers The SUSE Product Portfolio revenue increased by 21.2% to $303.4m provision, manage and scale container-based applications and services.
The compared with the pro-forma CCY revenues for FY16 of $250.4m, with the solutions consist of three key components orchestration using Kubernetes, Subscription revenue increasing by 21.7% to $298.7m 2016: pro-forma CCY a purpose-built operating system SUSE MicroOS for microservices and $245.5m.
The Subscription revenue is net of the fair value deferred revenue containers, and conguration capabilities.
Prior to this adjustment Subscription revenue grew by 19.8%.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio continued TCV and ACV Regional revenue performance TCV represents the gross billings for the year of $339.1m, an increase of 11.6% from the pro-forma CCY for FY16 of $303.8m.
The weighted average Year Year contract duration marginally reduced to 28 months in FY17 from 29 months ended Year ended ended in FY16.
The in scal year yield from TCV to revenue remained broadly the 30 April 30 April 30 April same at 34% in FY17 as it was in FY16.
In scal year yield represents the 2017 2016 2016 As reported Pro-forma As reported proportion of TCV generated in the scal year that can be recognized as 1 Actual CCY Growth Actual Subscription Fee Revenue SFR in the same scal year.
As the weighted $m $m % $m average contract duration reduces, we would generally expect to get a higher North America 121.8 108.7 12.1% 108.6 in scal year yield.
Net new subscription TCV increased by 12.4% year-onInternational 142.8 111.6 28.0% 115.6 year and renewal subscriptions TCV grew by 10.4% year-on-year.
Net new subscription contracts are derived from sale of subscriptions to new logo Asia Pacific & Japan 38.8 30.1 28.9% 29.6 customers and existing customers expanding footprint of existing product 303.4 250.4 21.2% 253.8 portfolio or subscribing to new product solutions.
ACV measures the first 12 months duration equivalent of TCV.
$220.1m, an increase of 15.7% from the pro-forma CCY for FY16 of $190.3m.
ACV removes the impact of multi-year TCV and is a cleaner KPI on the performance of the business.
Where subscription term is less than 12 months, International and Asia Pacic & Japan regions have shown strong growth all of the subscription TCV billing is included in the ACV measure.
in revenue of 28.0% and 28.9% respectively.
Growth in these regions was derived across all routes to markets together with securing new business with large enterprise accounts.
We are pleased to note that the change to specializing and aligning the eld sales and marketing resources to SUSE in the Asia Regional TCV performance Pacic & Japan has enabled setting the foundation for sustained profitable Year Year revenue growth.
ended Year ended ended 30 April 30 April 30 April Revenue growth in North America was lower than expected, with some of the 2017 2016 2016 larger transactions not closing within the scal year as expected.
We expect As reported Pro-forma Growth As reported 1 Actual CCY Decline Actual to see continuing growth in FY18.
Regional ACV performance Year Year ended Year ended ended 30 April 30 April 30 April 2017 2016 2016 As reported Pro-forma Growth As reported 1 Actual CCY Decline Actual $m $m % $m North America 84.2 88.4 4.8% 81.7 International 99.7 75.6 31.9% 67.8 Asia Pacific & Japan 36.2 26.3 37.6% 25.3 220.1 190.3 15.7% 174.8 1 unaudited.
30 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information North America had below expected performance on TCV and ACV, declining Direct represents customers that have a master licence agreement with SUSE by 14.6% and 4.8% respectively.
Timing of some of the larger enterprise and subscribe directly with SUSE or via authorized fulllment partners.
multi-year renewals together with deferral of some of the larger enterprise deals contributed to this decline.
Indirect represents customers that subscribe via the SUSE Value Added Reseller network and predominantly through a two tier distribution model.
International achieved strong TCV and ACV growth at 33.8% and 31.9% respectively.
Good solid performance across all countries in the region Global Service Partners represents primarily Independent Hardware together with closing of some large enterprise deals contributed to this Vendors who sell SUSE subscriptions alongside the sale of their respective outstanding growth.
hardware and subscriptions generated from cloud service providers.
Asia Pacic & Japan had very strong performance in TCV and ACV, growing OEM Embedded Systems represents entities that embed SUSE by 31.1% and 37.6% respectively.
We continue to have strong performance in subscriptions within the sale of their respective specialized appliance offerings.
China and Japan, and are also continuing to win new accounts in some of the other key markets in the region.
The region continues to get good traction and We continue to see significant growth in Direct, Indirect and Global Service growing revenue streams on local OEM relationships and also by leveraging Partners routes to market, growing by 14.0%, 20.5% and 13.6% respectively.
the global agreements we have in place with key independent hardware vendors and cloud service providers.
We also see a trend of customers, who purchased subscriptions at the outset direct and through Value Added Resellers, subsequently subscribing through Global Service Partners.
We continue to see strength in the Value Added Reseller network, where we have seen significant growth in ACV during the ACV contribution by route to market scal year.
Year Year ended Year ended ended OEM Embedded Systems transactions tend to be large, custom, specialized 30 April 30 April 30 April and binary in nature, and thus year-on-year uctuations in ACV generated are 2017 2016 2016 As reported Pro-forma Growth As reported to be expected.
1 Actual CCY Decline Actual $m $m % $m In aggregate the ACV mix by route to market remains stable in the year ended Direct 47.3 41.5 14.0% 37.2 30 April 2017 compared to the year ended 30 April 2016 as we saw Indirect 87.1 72.3 20.5% 61.8 homogenous contribution to SUSEs growth from the various routes to market.
Global Service The diagrams below show the percentage share of ACV by the different routes Partners 80.2 70.6 13.6% 63.8 to market in FY17 compared to FY16 pro-forma CCY.
Percentage share of ACV bookings by different routes to market FY17 total FY16 total 2% 3% OEM 22% 22% Direct 40% 38% Global Service Partners Indirect 36% 37% Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 CEO Review SUSE Product Portfolio continued The table below shows the reconciliation between Adjusted Operating profit SUSE Adjusted Operating profit and Adjusted EBITDA and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA for SUSE: The table below shows the Adjusted Operating profit for the SUSE product portfolio and compares it against the pro-forma CCY numbers for FY16: Adjusted EBITDA and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted Operating profit Year Year Year ended ended ended Year Year Year 30 April 30 April 30 April ended ended ended 2017 2016 2016 30 April 30 April 30 April As reported Pro-forma As reported 2017 2016 2016 1 Actual CCY Actual As reported Pro-forma As reported $m $m $m 1 Actual CCY Actual $m $m $m Adjusted Operating Profit 98.7 79.9 79.8 Revenue 303.4 250.4 253.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2.1 1.7 1.7 Directly managed costs 178.5 143.2 145.1 Amortization of software Allocation of centrally managed intangibles 0.1 0.1 0.2 costs from Micro Focus 26.2 27.3 28.9 Adjusted EBITDA 100.9 81.7 81.7 Total Adjusted Operating Costs 204.7 170.5 174.0 Foreign exchange credit 2.0 0.3 0.3 Net capitalization of product Adjusted Operating Profit 98.7 79.9 79.8 development costs Margin 32.5% 31.9% 31.4% Underlying Adjusted EBITDA 98.9 81.4 81.4 1 unaudited.
SUSE Adjusted Operating profit for the year was $98.7m at a profit margin of 32.5%.
This is compared to the year ended 30 April 2016 pro-forma CCY Deferred revenue Adjusted Operating profit of $79.9m, which is an increase of $18.8m 23.5%.
We continue to have year on year steady growth in the deferred revenue profit margin improved to 32.5%, an increase of 0.6% 2016: 31.9%.
At 30 April 2017 SUSEs total deferred revenue balance was have seen a significant increase in directly managed costs in SUSE that is $374.3m 2016: $326.8m, an increase of $47.5m 14.5% year-on-year.
consistent with the continuation of investments being made to deliver the 56.4% of this increase in deferred revenue balance is recognizable revenue SUSE growth charter.
Reduction in allocation of centrally managed costs is a in the next 12 months and 82.6% recognizable in 24 months.
combination of Asia Pacic & Japan moving to directly managed costs from allocated costs in FY16 together with some synergy benets and efficiencies Headcount driving reduced allocation of costs for centrally managed functions.
At the end of April 2016, direct headcount in SUSE was 641 increasing to 936 by 30 April 2017, a net increase of 295 heads 46.0% in the scal year, which includes the additional heads joining from the OpenATTIC acquisition in November 2016 and from the acquisition of OpenStack and Cloud Foundry assets in March 2017.
The increased investment in direct headcount is primarily in Engineering, Product Management, Sales, Marketing, Product Marketing and Alliances to address the opportunity we see in the market for SUSEs existing offerings together with new opportunities in OpenStack IaaS, Software Dened Distributed Storage based on Ceph technology and with public cloud service providers.
In addition to the direct headcount, the SUSE portfolio received in the year ended 30 April 2017 support from SUSE dedicated employees, who are organizationally aligned in the shared service functions of the Group.
Most prominently in Renewal Sales, Consulting, Customer Care, Sales Operations and other corporate operations functions.
These add up to approximately 201 full-time equivalents FTEs, which brings the total SUSE dedicated headcount supporting the SUSE business and customers to approximately 1,137 FTEs at the end of April 2017.
32 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Recruitment and on-boarding The successful execution of the growth charter and investment plan for SUSE depends on the ability to ll the new, incremental positions in a timely fashion and thus ramping up our capacity in key areas of the business.
To build on the momentum of this year we need to improve our ability to grow our team.
To this end changes have been initiated, that will have a positive impact on the recruitment and on-boarding of new employees to the SUSE business as well as ongoing, quality HR management of the enlarged team that shall benefit from those changes.
This includes hiring of a VP HR dedicated to the SUSE business in Q3 FY17, closer alignment of shared HR service functions with the SUSE business and organization as well as deploying additional HR management and recruitment employees paired with an increase of third party recruitment spending.
Outlook Sustainable, profitable Revenue Growth We will continue to invest in building out the organization to ensure continuing improvements in execution capacity across all major business functions and geographies as well as further investment in marketing program spend to drive demand generation and build brand awareness for SUSE.
The SUSE portfolio will expand in FY18 to provide a broader range of open source SDI solutions paired with improved and more complete management tools for the SDI architecture as demanded by our enterprise customers and technology partners.
Examples include: SUSE OpenStack Cloud Monitoring launched in May 2017 : SUSE Container as a Service Platform launched in June 2017 : and SUSE Cloud Foundry PaaS scheduled to launch in Q3 of CY 2017.
For FY18 SUSE will focus on the successful execution of SUSEs mandate for sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
The objective is to grow revenue ahead of growth rates for relevant markets.
Nils Brauckmann Chief Executive officer SUSE 17 July 2017 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33
