CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio Introduction Progress in FY17 During 2017 our main priority has been completing the integration of the The Micro Focus Product Portfolio represents 78.0% of total different businesses into a more coherent whole, focused on consistent and Group revenue in FY17 2016: pro-forma CCY 82.0% and sustained financial performance and the delivery of innovation that matters to comprises the following sub-product portfolios, which are shown customers what we call customer centred innovation.
This means helping with their percentage of FY17 overall product portfolios revenues: customers solve the real world challenges they face today as they wrestle with balancing the ever increasing requirements for I. T. to deliver new capabilities and support new business models with the demands of securing and running Proportion of revenue delivered during FY17 day to day operations.
We achieve this through the rigorous application of our by each of the Product Portfolio FOUR-BOX MODEL which has at its core direct engagement with customers to enable highly targeted product development and delivery.
Percentage Product of FY17 Highlights include: portfolio Revenues Revenues As reported Our focus on delivering customer centred innovation continued to $m % gather momentum: COBOL Development & Mainframe Solutions CDMS 265.2 24.6 Delivered 185 product releases or significant enhancements in FY17 with each sub-portfolio improving the levels of customer engagement Host Connectivity HC 175.4 16.3 and cadence of product delivery: Identity, Access & Security IAS 207.0 19.2 Integration of Serena and acquisition and integration of GWAVA Development & IT Operations Management completed on time and now executing as integral parts of the Tools Development & ITOM 285.2 26.5 Micro Focus Product Portfolio, adding further depth and new Collaboration & Networking C&N 144.5 13.4 capabilities within Development & ITOM and C&N respectively: and Removed dependency on third party intellectual property in key Micro Focus Portfolio 1,077.3 100.0 strategic elements of our IAS portfolio.
Integration of the business into a coherent whole is now broadly complete From within the Micro Focus Product Portfolio we also manage, for the Group as evidenced by the progress on removing sub-branding, completely overall, the corporate support functions of HR, IT, Facilities, Finance, Legal and redesigning our websites, transitioning to a geographic Go-to-Market the Project Management Ofce PMO for acquisitions and integration.
In GTM model globally and creating an integrated approach to product addition we manage the delivery of a shared service for other elements of development and management.
The remaining focus area is on IT systems support to the SUSE portfolio enabling SUSE to directly control what they where our stated goal of driving standardization will take longer to deliver need to execute with speed and exibility whilst leveraging the larger Group than originally anticipated.
As a result of the planned merger with HPE where effective as SUSE builds scale.
During FY17 this shared service Software we have decided to implement the new set of systems being built approach was phased out to further enable the SUSE team to execute for HPE Software for the Group as a whole.
This will enable more effective autonomously such that in FY18 only the corporate support functions are integration of the existing Group with HPE Software and the creation of shared with all other resources dedicated to either SUSE or Micro Focus.
a more exible platform from which to execute our strategy but it remains Wherever practical the corporate support functions staff are dedicated to a very significant undertaking.
product portfolios, including SUSE, in order to provide the additional benefit of specialization whilst leveraging the scale of the shared function.
Financial performance in the year was in line with expectations, with progress in Maintenance Fee Revenue being somewhat offset by performance in Licence Fee Revenue where the loss to a competitor of an entire sales team and management structure caused three to five months of disruption which impacted our Host Connectivity business principally.
20 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The Micro Focus Portfolio Group in FY17 Systems and Processes The decision to switch the focus of our long term strategic approach to Product Group internal systems to leverage the HPE Software internal systems has had a We now execute as one global organization covering the five sub-portfolios.
short term impact on our ability to make the fundamental structural improvements we believe will underpin our long term strategy.
In the interim we switched During FY17 we delivered major product releases across each sub-portfolio focus to tackling other areas of process or technology inefficiencies.
Key and more than 185 releases in total.
We have established standard processes examples include the continued simplication of sales compensation plans, for market and opportunity analysis through product development to product rationalization of websites, marketing support systems and social media launch and sales and partner enablement.
Best practices in areas such as platforms, improvements to our core data and voice infrastructure and development methodologies, pricing and licence management have been improvements to our business intelligence and data analytics capabilities.
identied and are now adopted across the Group.
We believe the changes made enable us to better serve our customers but The FOUR-BOX MODEL approach was applied across all products to optimize we still have a great deal to do across systems beyond the main strategic returns and ensure product roadmaps reect the appropriate priorities based project, processes and people to deliver the levels of sales productivity on the individual products life cycle and portfolio management position.
This more unied approach to product development and management has We aim to increase sales productivity and predictability further by continuing presented new opportunities for delivering more value to customers through to simplify the underlying processes and systems we use to run the business sharing technology and best practice focused on specic customer use cases and improve customer insight by generating closer interaction between Sales or challenges.
For example, we have delivered advanced security capabilities and Marketing, Product Management and Product Development.
All of which from our IAS portfolio within our leading Host Connectivity solutions to bring is key to effective operation today and faster integration with HPE Software signicantly enhanced functionality for customers to secure mainframe in the future.
We continue to invest in product development and sharpen our focus in Micro Focus Product Portfolio product management.
We are excited by the significant enhancements to Details of our five sub portfolios are provided below.
existing products, the new products released in the past year and the product roadmaps for the future.
COBOL Development & Mainframe Solutions CDMS 19.2% of FY17 Group revenues 2016: pro-forma CCY 18.5% Go to Market GTM sales, services and marketing We have continued to invest in our core COBOL development CD products The transition of the GTM approach from global business units measured on that primarily target the off-mainframe distributed development market.
The annual bookings to a geographic organization focused on quarterly revenue CD products enable programmers to develop and deploy applications written is now complete.
in COBOL across multiple platforms including Windows, UNIX, Linux and the cloud.
Visual COBOL provides the fastest way for customers to move This realignment of structure and approach was executed to enable closer enterprise mainframe application workloads partially or wholly to Java Virtual engagement with the customer base and drive behaviour change at both the Machine JVM, .
NET or cloud environments whilst protecting their existing management and individual level to underpin the move to a more granular, investments and intellectual property.
quarterly cadence of sales forecasting and execution.
COBOL applications continue to be at the heart of the worlds business In services we have changed the direction and objectives to align fully with our transactions and to power the majority of large organizations key business strategy of making, selling and supporting software.
The teams have been operations.
Maintaining our leadership position in CD is at the core of our value reorganized with compensation and incentives changed to be targeted on proposition.
By embedding our products in industry standard development delivering successful software implementations rather than more standalone environments specically Visual Studio and Eclipse, we have addressed the services engagements.
This change also enables better alignment with our perceived skill issues, and expect that COBOL will provide a stable base and channel partners.
We have an extensive partner network that is a fundamental strong cash ow for the Group over the coming decades.
part of our long-term plans and it is important we ensure consistency of direction and focus to ensure objectives are aligned and mutual success is achieved in support of our customers.
Our approach to and our engagement with our channel partners was improved during FY17.
Channel programmes were completely revamped to focus on those partners who were adding most value to our customers through the investment in complementary skills and technologies.
Underpinning this is a completely redesigned Channel Portal to simplify how we collaborate and to provide improved visibility and analytics.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio continued Our Mainframe Solutions MS product set addresses a customers need to Identity Access & Security IAS 15.0% of FY17 Group get the most value out of their mainframe environment.
These technologies revenues 2016: pro-forma CCY 15.4% allow customers exibility in deciding the platform choice for development, This product set offers a broad set of proven solutions for Identity Governance testing and deployment of their business applications.
Various business and and Administration, Access Management and Authentication, and Security technical drivers would determine if it is best to do these functions either within Management.
Our customers span all sectors with particular strength in the mainframe environment or outside of it on distributed Windows, UNIX and regulated industries, including Healthcare, Finance, Government, Retail, Linux machines.
We offer customers the choice to do either or both, enabling Manufacturing, and Energy.
In addition companies in non-regulated industries the optimum balance of cost, risk and speed of execution across their also implement our IAS products as a best practice for protecting intellectual mainframe and distributed computing platforms.
Increasingly businesses are property or other sensitive information, and to make their organizations seeking to re-use existing business logic and data, while also looking to exploit more efficient.
new innovations in technology such as mobile and cloud.
Our mainframe solutions allow customers to accomplish both by enabling the re-deployment Customers use our Identity & Access Management IAM solutions to apply of enterprise mainframe applications to distributed systems, virtualized mobile integrated policies across local, mobile, and cloud environments to govern platforms, and the cloud.
We estimate that the mainframe COBOL development access to information, administer and manage the identity and access lifecycle market opportunity is approximately three times as large as that for off of users, and demonstrate compliance with regulations or mandates.
We provide mainframe distributed COBOL development.
solutions that address identity lifecycle management, risk-based authentication, single sign-on SSO, access governance, and multi-factor authentication.
Micro Focus will maintain its leadership positions in CDMS through products such as Visual COBOL and Enterprise Developer.
The continued stable Our Security Management solutions build upon this identity centric approach by revenue performance in this portfolio is showing that our strategy is working.
integrating identity and other contextual information with security monitoring, ensuring organizations have the security intelligence they need, when they Host Connectivity 12.7% of FY17 Group revenues need it, to detect and respond to abnormal activity that signals a data breach or compliance gap.
Our Security Management solutions provide privileged user 2016: pro-forma CCY 14.1% management, secure conguration management and visibility and control over The Host Connectivity product portfolio helps customers improve user user activities, security events, and critical systems across an organization to productivity as they extend host access to new web and mobile use cases enable them to quickly address evolving threats.
while ensuring that modern security practices around encryption, authorization, and authentication can be enforced.
We specialize in environments with Key trends driving growth in this area include the continued expansion and heterogeneous systems or platforms and this product set has, in one form diversity of security threats to organizations and the growth of the resulting or another, assisted in these tasks for over 30 years.
financial risk, the increasing demand for organizations to demonstrate that they have the processes in place to manage access, and the continued expansion The Host Connectivity capabilities are extended by other products that provide of virtualization and cloud deployments increasing the level of complexity of the legacy integration technologies that enable businesses to put their mainframe applications and information over which organizations need to manage access assets to work in new ways by exposing applications and data to modern and monitor activity.
Additionally organizations have an opportunity cost, development environments and business analytics systems.
There are effectively to implement stronger authentication methods than traditional additional Secure Shell SSH based le transfer solutions that solve a range of tactical and strategic problems for securely transferring les of any size, username password to help minimize data breaches.
enabling businesses to work seamlessly with partners and customers.
Our IAS solutions are well suited to address these trends, using unique In Host Connectivity we will seek to build on our existing strengths in terms identity-powered technologies to help organizations govern and manage user of technology and customer base combined with our innovations in security privileges, facilitate and control access to applications and data, and monitor to establish a true leadership position in this area.
Although well positioned from a technology and capability perspective in this growth market there are many niche players who have point solutions and the trend in the market seems to be for customers to look for the potentially quicker x of a single point solution rather than a company-wide integrated solution.
Our focus is to build on existing strengths but transition the portfolio to enable these strengths to be packaged for easier consumption and deployment giving the customer better longer term balance between speed of deployment as part of a more integrated solution versus disparate point solutions from multiple vendors.
22 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Development & IT Operations Management Tools 20.6% Collaboration & Networking 10.5% of FY17 Group revenues of FY17 Group revenues 2016: pro-forma CCY 22.7% 2016: pro-forma CCY 11.3% On 2 May 2016 we added important new capabilities and depth to this product Our collaboration products enable organizations to build and operate work portfolio through the acquisition of Serena, a leading provider of Application environments that are more secure and easier to manage, regardless of how Lifecycle Management products enhancing both our expertise in mainframe or where people work.
The products form a complete collaboration solution computing and distributed software change management.
Consistent with our that has long been praised by customers and industry watchers for security philosophy of customer centred innovation we have continued to develop the and reliability.
Key capabilities include email, calendaring, instant messaging, full suite of Serena products and started the process of leveraging existing contact management, task management: team workspaces with document Micro Focus capabilities to the benefit of Serena products and customers management, and workows.
On 30 September 2016 we completed the acquisition of GWAVA Inc.
The Application Delivery and Testing products offer a range of DevOps GWAVA, a leading provider of email security and enterprise information solutions which span an organizations software development lifecycle from archiving EIA solutions based in the US, Canada and Germany.
GWAVA has denition requirements capture through to delivery testing and change a full suite of products, including their award winning EIA product Retain, that management.
Organizations competing in a global marketplace must deliver enable customers to protect, optimize, secure and ensure compliance for email, innovative applications that meet customer expectations anytime, anywhere.
mobile and social data across multiple platforms including Micro Focus Greater agility is required as software teams rapidly adapt to the volume and GroupWise, Microsoft Ofce and Google.
velocity of evolving business requirements and the demand to work in more diverse environments including mobile and cloud.
Our Application Delivery and Collaboration brings people, projects, and processes together in one secure Testing solutions improve communication and collaboration between business, place to enhance team productivity and this ts closely with additional products test, and development teams for continuous delivery of a superior applications that offer le, print, and networking services designed to enable organizations and user experience across all their device and platform combinations.
to securely print and share les both inside and outside their organization.
The products can automate the conguration and management of high availability Our Data Centre Management solutions integrate service management, collaboration and networking servers, that are simple to resource manage and application management, and systems management to give organizations a maintain.
Suitable for small workgroups, right through to global enterprise holistic view of their IT environment and business services, enabling companies deployments, the end-user value proposition includes dynamic le services to manage increased complexity and capacity with the right balance of cost, which automates policies data storage: le access: secure le sharing: le risk and speed of execution.
We provide application performance management, reporting: mobile access: and online, ofine and mobile printing.
IT process automation, business service management, and systems management solutions.
Fully distributed networking services such as centralized server management: secure le storage: and storage management, provide full enterprise Our Workload Migration and Disaster Recovery products help organizations distributed networking environments suitable for small workgroups, right complete data centre transformation and migration projects quickly and through to global enterprise deployments.
efficiently with automatic, unattended high-speed physical-to-virtual, virtual-to-virtual, or anywhere-to-cloud workload migrations.
Additionally, our This product set also includes the CORBA based network and data transport high-performance disaster recovery solutions offer warm-standby recovery products which provide unrivalled functionality and performance to companies speeds similar to mirroring but at the lower cost points more associated with with a requirement for high speed, and secure transfer of data between tape backup for all server workloads: physical and virtual, Windows and Linux.
systems on their multi-platform networks.
This technology is deployed across thousands of customers supporting more than a billion transactions per day.
Endpoint Management products enable IT staff to handle the complexities of securing and managing a large footprint of PCs, Macs, tablets and smartphones We have been delivering value to our customer base with these products for to give the proper and secure working environment to each employee.
decades and are committed to delivering the practical innovation and support our customers want and need to continue to leverage these investments.
Using a unied management console, these tools enable all devices to be patched, compliant, secure and properly equipped.
Due to the multifarious Micro Focus will maintain its existing and seek to develop new leadership and complex nature of the user and system endpoints within todays large positions through continued investment in customer centred innovation.
We will organizations, this can be a burdensome and costly undertaking, and maintain our leadership in COBOL Development & Mainframe Solutions through accordingly the toolset is both broad and deep.
The capabilities include service products such as Visual COBOL and Enterprise Developer.
In Host Connectivity desk: application virtualization: asset management: conguration management: we will seek to build on our existing strengths in terms of technology and software distribution: full disk encryption: mobile device management: and customer base combined with our innovations in security to establish a true patch management.
In Development & ITOM and Collaboration & Networking the strength of our existing franchises can be built upon through targeted We offer a very broad set of solutions and capabilities for customers.
Our focus innovation and customer engagement.
By continuing to sharpen our focus is on delivering the targeted innovation our customers need as they seek to in IAS we are well positioned for growth over the longer term.
solve complex, real world and ever changing challenges in building, operating and securing complex IT applications and infrastructure.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio continued Revenue for the year ended 30 April 2017 by product portfolio compared to Revenue for the Micro Focus Product Portfolio declined by 5.7% on a pro-forma CCY and reported revenue for the year ended 30 April 2016 is pro-forma CCY basis.
shown in the table below: Licence revenue Licence revenue declined by 7.4% 2016: 4.8% on a pro-forma CCY basis.
Micro Focus Product Portfolio revenue There was year-on-year Licence revenue growth in CDMS and Collaboration & Networking offset by declines in the other sub-portfolios.
Year Year ended Year ended ended 30 April 30 April 30 April Maintenance revenue 2017 2016 2016 Maintenance revenues declined by 4.5% 2016: 6.1% on a pro-forma CCY As reported Pro-forma Growth As reported basis.
This was primarily in Development & ITOM Tools and Collaboration & 1 Actual CCY Decline Actual Networking.
The fair value deferred revenue haircut reduced maintenance by $m $m % $m $6.9m 2016: $10.2m.
Excluding this, underlying maintenance revenues fell CDMS by 4.9% 2016: 6.2%.
Licence 106.0 104.2 1.7% 104.7 Maintenance 149.7 145.0 3.2% 145.2 Consultancy revenue Consultancy 9.5 8.8 8.0% 8.9 Consultancy revenues declined by 12.0% 2016: 15.2% on a pro-forma CCY basis as we completed the implementation of the established Micro Focus policy 265.2 258.0 2.8% 258.8 of focusing only on consulting business that supports our licence business.
Host connectivity CDMS revenues were $265.2m: a growth of 2.8% on a pro-forma CCY basis Licence 69.2 89.0 22.2% 89.9 compared with the year to 30 April 2016.
This portfolio continues to show Maintenance 104.4 105.2 0.8% 105.4 annual revenue growth underpinned by Visual COBOL and Enterprise Consultancy 1.8 2.8 35.7% 2.9 Developer which highlights the continuing value customers derive from our CDMS products in support of their mission critical applications.
Licence 175.4 197.0 11.0% 198.2 revenues grew by 1.7% $1.8m, Maintenance revenues grew by 3.2% $4.7m Identity, Access & Security and Consulting revenues grew by 8.0% $0.7m.
Licence 48.6 51.7 6.0% 52.4 Host Connectivity revenues declined by 11.0% $21.6m in the year on a Maintenance 140.0 140.6 0.4% 142.2 pro-forma CCY basis.
Licence revenues declined by 22.2% $19.8m mostly Consultancy 18.4 22.0 16.4% 22.1 as a result of the loss to a competitor of an entire sales team and management structure.
Maintenance revenues declined marginally by 0.8% $0.8m and 207.0 214.3 3.4% 216.7 there was a decline in Consulting revenues of 35.7% $1.0m.
Development & IT Operations Management Tools Identity, Access & Security IAS revenues declined by 3.4% $7.3m Licence 55.4 64.4 14.0% 33.9 in the year on a pro-forma CCY basis.
Licence revenues declined by 6.0% on pro-forma CCY basis due to a lack of large scale projects in customers which Maintenance 215.9 235.9 8.5% 121.3 is an area of real strength for our products and increased competition in this Consultancy 13.9 15.5 10.3% 2.2 market from niche players for the smaller more point solutions.
We will continue 285.2 315.8 9.7% 157.4 to drive for growth in this area but expect that this will take time to be delivered.
Collaboration & Networking Development & IT Operations Management Tools revenues which now Licence 29.2 23.7 23.2% 23.9 include Serena were $285.2m: a 9.7% $30.6m decline on pro-forma CCY Maintenance 110.7 127.8 13.4% 130.4 basis.
$20.0m of the decline was in Maintenance revenues which declined by 8.5% compared with 11.3% in the prior year.
Licence revenues declined in the Consultancy 4.6 5.7 19.3% 5.8 period by $9.0m partly due to lower sales of our Serena products which had a 144.5 157.2 8.1% 160.1 number of large licence sales in the prior year.
Micro Focus Product Portfolio Licence 308.4 333.0 7.4% 304.8 Collaboration & Networking revenues which now include GWAVA were Maintenance 720.7 754.5 4.5% 644.5 $144.5m a decline of 8.1% $12.7m on pro-forma CCY basis.
Maintenance revenue declined by 13.4% $17.1m in the period compared with 15.8% in the prior year.
24 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Adjusted Operating profit and Underlying Regional revenue performance Adjusted EBITDA The table below shows the Adjusted Operating profit for the portfolio together Year Year with a comparison to the pro-forma CCY and reported gures for the year ended Year ended ended ended 30 April 2016: 30 April 30 April 30 April 2017 2016 2016 As reported Pro-forma Growth As reported 1 Actual CCY Decline Actual Adjusted Operating profit $m $m % $m North America 591.4 627.1 5.7% 525.2 Year Year Year ended ended ended International 389.7 415.0 6.1% 377.0 30 April 30 April 30 April Asia Pacific & Japan 96.2 100.2 4.0% 89.0 2017 2016 2016 As reported Pro-forma As reported 1,077.3 1,142.3 5.7% 991.2 1 Actual CCY Actual $m $m $m 1 Segment revenue 1,077.3 1,142.3 991.2 unaudited.
Directly managed costs 564.1 633.0 566.4 Allocation of centrally managed North America started the year promisingly but had a disappointing third costs to SUSE 26.2 27.3 28.9 quarter which resulted in year-on-year revenue decline of 5.7% 2016: 6.4% decline for the full year.
The Federal business performed very well and CDMS Total Adjusted execution improved throughout the year to deliver year-on-year growth within Operating costs 537.9 605.7 537.5 which Mainframe Solutions won exciting new customers and projects.
Host Adjusted Operating Profit 539.4 536.6 453.7 Connectivity was down signicantly mostly due to disruption and the impact of losing an entire sales team and management structure to a competitor causing Margin 50.1% 47.0% 45.8% both performance and pipeline development issues.
International had a challenging year with revenue decline year on year of 6.1% 2016: 4.6% decline.
This region like in North America experienced challenges in the Host Connectivity and IAS markets.
The directly managed costs are those costs specically managed by the CEO France performed well and Germany and Nordics improved signicantly in of the Micro Focus Product Portfolio.
In the year ended 30 April 2017 some the second half but this was not enough to make up for weaknesses in the of the management of the Asia Pacic and Japan APJ sales organization other territories.
moved under the direct management of SUSE.
All the Group central support costs are managed by the Micro Focus Product Portfolio group and the Asia Pacic & Japan saw a 4.0% year on year revenue decline 2016: 10.6% allocation of these costs to SUSE is based on an appropriate methodology.
Licence revenues were marginally ahead of last year and maintenance In the year ended 30 April 2018, SUSE will directly manage all of their own revenues were in line with trend.
Strength in Japan and Australia was offset by consulting services and maintenance renewals activities.
The Australia business was rebuilt to ensure that the correct teams were in place to execute consistently and improve the overall The adjusted operating profit was $539.4m, delivering a margin of 50.1% capabilities locally and these changes started to deliver improvements from which compares with the margin in the pro-forma CCY numbers for the year very early in FY17.
There were some excellent wins in IAS that demonstrate ended 30 April 2016 of 47.0%.
The increase in margin arises because of the what can be delivered when skill and execution levels are maintained.
continuing actions taken in managing costs.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 CEO Review Micro Focus Product Portfolio continued The table below shows the reconciliation between Adjusted Operating profit Outlook and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA with a comparative of the pro-forma CCY We have achieved a great deal over the last 12 months and enter the new and reported gures for the year ended 30 April 2016: financial year with stronger foundations than a year ago.
We continue to focus on improving the way in which we operate to maximize the efficiency of the organization.
Adjusted EBITDA and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA The Group has undergone huge change in FY16 and FY17 but the one Year Year constant has been clarity of strategy and the associated focus on aligning ended Year ended ended operational execution to the delivery of that strategy.
Looking forward to 30 April 30 April 30 April 2017 2016 2016 FY18 this focus will continue with our key priorities being: As reported Pro-forma As reported 1 Actual CCY Actual Delivery of our financial plan: $m $m $m Adjusted Operating Profit 539.4 536.6 453.7 Continuing to operationalize the FOUR-BOX MODEL to better align Depreciation of property, plant resources to optimize the performance of each sub-portfolio: and and equipment 9.7 10.0 9.7 Planning for and subsequent integration with HPE Software following Amortization of software Completion of the transaction.
intangibles 1.1 1.6 1.7 Adjusted EBITDA 550.2 548.2 465.1 Foreign exchange credit 2.9 3.0 2.6 Net capitalization of product development costs 5.3 11.3 11.4 Stephen Murdoch Chief Executive officer Underlying Adjusted EBITDA 542.0 533.9 451.1 Micro Focus 17 July 2017 1 unaudited.
The Underlying Adjusted EBITDA improved by $8.1m in the year on a pro-forma CCY basis primarily due to the staff related cost actions taken during the year.
26 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
