com stock code: NTG Q&A WITH THE CEO Kevin Bradshaw What are the three key things you have learned in your first five months with Northgate?
KB My first impressions on joining are that Northgate is a fundamentally good, well positioned business, with great What have been the reasons for the people that have a real desire to serve our customers well reduction in vehicles on hire in the UK?
and in turn deliver strong returns for our shareholders.
KB Competition has certainly intensified but our market There is however, work to be done and I am excited by the research concludes that the rental market has grown by How do you envisage Brexit challenges that lie ahead.
c. 6% a year over the last three years.
Reductions in vehicles impacting the Group?
on hire in our business have been broad-based across the KB It is currently unclear what, if any, impact Brexit will What is your vision for the Group range of customer sizes, industry sectors and geography.
Economic growth will drive demand Some critical key weaknesses have persisted in the execution over the medium term?
and on the other hand our flexible product lends itself well of our sales and marketing efforts and I have put in measures KB Over the first five months I have managed to spend to periods of uncertainty.
Under any scenario the Group to address these going forward.
time across our network with people working in all areas has a secure funding base and robust balance sheet which of the business.
I believe that the potential for Northgate is underpins our confidence for the future.
very significant and that we are a business that is capable What are your key sustainability of delivering good long term growth in cash flows with priorities over the medium term?
returns well ahead of our cost of capital.
The strategic review KB We constantly strive to reduce environmental impacts on pages 6 to 39 highlights four key growth priorities to to ensure we are building a sustainable business.
Over the deliver these returns.
The first area that needs attention is, of medium term I will encourage further initiatives around course, the UK business and I have already started to address energy usage and waste management to ensure we continue this with self-help actions and leadership changes.
Read more in our Corporate social responsibility report on page 34 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four
