Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives Strategic Review Halma makes a positive difference to peoples lives worldwide Halma performed strongly over the past year, achieving its fourteenth consecutive year of record revenue and profit.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive Adjusted pre-tax profit up 17%on revenue up 19% 7% increase in total dividendper share 38th consecutive year ofgrowing dividend payments by5% or more Strong cash generation M&A resource added to each of our sectors and increased financial resources support further strategic investment 6 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Halmas purpose is to protect life Cash generation and balance sheet Growth in all four sectors andimprove the quality of life supports future growth There was revenue and profit growth throughinnovative safety, health Cash generation was good and we in all four sectors.
All sectors achieved andenvironmental solutions.
ended the year with net debt of 196m record revenue and all, except Process Thisprovides us with exciting 2016: 247m after spending 10m on Safety, also generated record profit.
opportunities for growth in a diverse current year acquisitions 2016: 193m, range of markets and with a strong 24m on capital expenditure The Medical sector became our largest motivation to make a positive 2016:24m, 50m on dividends profit sector for the first time, with 2 difference to peoples lives worldwide.
51.7 including 6% organic constant We have a clear growth strategy, a currency growth.
Revenue grew by 31% simple financial model and a unique With gearing at the year end net to 261m 2016: 199m with organic organisational structure, which is debtto EBITDA of 0.86 times 2016: constant currency growth of 4%.
customer-focused and enables us 1.27 times, we have a strong balance Return on Sales remained strong at toadapt quickly to market changes.
sheet which can support further 25.6% 2016: 26.0%.
In November Halma has had a well-established 2016, we increased and extended our Regionally, the highest rate of organic financial target that aims to double revolving credit facilities from 360m constant currency revenue growth was ourearnings every five years, without until 2018 to 550m until 2021. in Asia Pacific and there was good becoming highly geared or seeking progress in China.
There were lower further equity, provided there are Final dividend to increase by 7% rates of organic growth in the UK and similar rates of organic, acquisitive and The Board is recommending a final the USA, which is the largest region dividend growth.
This aspiration pushes dividend increase of 7%, giving a final representing 52% of the sector.
our businesses to deliver sustainable dividend of 8.38p 2016: 7.83p and a Therewas a small organic constant revenue growth by increasing total dividend for the year of 13.71p currency decline in Mainland Europe.
investment in innovation, talent and 2016: 12.81p.
The final dividend Visiometrics and CenTrak, acquired international expansion rather than pershare is subject to approval by inDecember 2015 and February 2016 limiting their focus only onoperational shareholders at the AGM on 20 July respectively, delivered improved efficiency and short-term profitability.
2017 and will be paid on 16 August performances as the year progressed.
2017 to shareholders on the register 2 Over the past five years, we have on14 July 2017.
Infrastructure Safety profit grew achieved compound annual growth byan impressive 17% to 65.1m rates of 10% for revenue and 11% for Growth in all major regions 2016:55.6m and revenue rose profit with a good balance between A major benefit for businesses within by19% to 315m 2016: 265m.
organic, acquisition and dividend Halma is the support they receive Bothincluded organic constant growth.
This strong performance tobuild their business in key export currency growth of 7%.
Return reflects not only our soundgrowth markets.
This year, once again, this onSales was 20.7% 2016: 21.2%.
strategy but also theexceptional was reflected in the widespread commitment, abilities and dedication revenue growth achieved in both There was strong organic constant of talented individuals in every part developing and developed regions.
currency revenue growth in Asia Pacific, ofHalma.
I thank all of them for their the UK and Mainland Europe the contribution to this financial success There was impressive growth in Asia largest region at 30% of the sector and, in the process, realising our Pacific where revenue increased 21% supported by excellent progress from shared purpose and making a positive to 152m 2016: 125m, including 9% our Fire and Door Safety businesses.
difference to peoples lives worldwide.
There was organic constant currency Revenue from China was up by 25% to revenue decline in the USA, partly due Record revenue and profit 68m 2016: 54m, with 11% organic to a weaker performance from our Fire Halma performed strongly over the constant currency growth.
Revenue businesses, including Firetrace which past year, achieving its fourteenth from Other regions grew by 16% to we acquired in October 2015.
We have consecutive year of record revenue 99m 2016: 86m with good growth continued to strengthen Firetraces andprofit.
management team from within Halma and we expect its performance to Revenue increased by 19% to 962m Revenue from Mainland Europe grew improve as we move through 2017.
2016: 808m including 4% organic by 17% to 210m 2016: 179m Weremain confident in its longer-term constant currency growth and 10% including 6% organic constant growth potential, especially in 1 favourable currency impact.
Adjusted currency growth while UK revenue was international markets.
profit increased by 17% to 194m 2016: up by 7% to 155m 2016: 145m with 166m, also including 4% organic 5% organic constant currency growth.
The Environmental & Analysis sector 2 constant currency growth and 10% The USA remained our largest regional increased profit substantially by favourable currency impact.
There were market with revenue increasing by 21%to 41.7m 2016: 34.5m, which 52 weeks trading in this year compared 27% to 345m 2016: 273m and 1% continued the excellent progress made with 53 weeks trading last year.
last year and included 6% organic constant currency growth.
Revenue Returns were maintained at a high level grew by 16% to 219m 2016: 189m with Return on Sales of 20.2% 2016: with organic constant currency growth 20.6% well within our targeted range of 4%.
Return on Sales improved from of 18% to 22%.
Employed for our operating companies remained high at 72% 2016: 72%.
TheGroups Return on Total Invested Capital was 15.3% 2016: 15.6%.
7 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued The highest rates of organic constant encouraging 1% organic constant although each Halma sector has the 2 currency revenue growth were currency growth.
Profit rose by 2% to freedom to find new niches which achieved in Asia Pacific, with China 40.2m 2016: 39.6m.
Although there possess the right product, market and achieving double-digit growth and was a 4% organic constant currency financial characteristics.
In almost all now contributing 12% ofsector decline for the full year, there was cases we acquire 100% of an entity but revenue.
There was good growth in organic constant currency profit we will consider a minority investment theUSA and solid progress in the UK.
growth of 4% in the second half of to gain access to potentially valuable Mainland Europe saw organic revenue theyear.
Return on Sales for the year intellectual property if an outright decline after weaker demand remained strong at 24.1% 2016: 25.4%.
purchase is not appropriate or possible.
fromcertain OEM customers headquartered in the region.
There was impressive organic constant Our sector-focused organisation currency growth in the Near and Middle model gives us the scalability to During the year we completed the East and modest improvements in the continue acquiring small-to-medium restructuring of our photonics USA and Mainland Europe.
There was sized businesses to achieve our coatings business, Pixelteq.
The asmall organic revenue decline in the strategic growth objectives.
We are exceptional costsassociated with this UK and reduced demand in our pipeline also able to sell and merge businesses project were reported in our first half management sub-sector contributed to relatively easily should specific market results.
The profitability benefits dynamics change.
This active portfolio organic revenue decline in Asia Pacific.
started to emerge in the final quarter management has meant the number of 2016 17 and are expected to make a of businesses within Halma has In overall terms this was an encouraging positive contribution to profit growth year and Process Safety isnow much beenrelatively stable, reducing in the 2017 18 financial year, despite thepotential for concerns over better placed to sustain growth, with the small revenue reduction arising less reliance on energy andresources managements increasing span-offrom this consolidation.
In2007, Halma markets than one year ago.
had revenue of 355m from 39 The Process Safety sectors operating companies while today, One acquisition completed: performance improved as the year M&A resource strengthened wehave revenue of 962m from 42 progressed, benefiting from sustained operating companies.
Our core acquisition strategy is to find increased investment in market privately-owned businesses operating diversification and improving demand During the year, we added further M&A in niches within safety, health or from the US onshore energy market in environmental markets.
Our search resource to our four sector boards and the second half of the year.
Revenue the benefits of this are becoming efforts are typically focused on our increased by 7% to a record 167m core, or closely adjacent, market niches apparent in the improved balance 2016: 155m with a relatively ofour acquisition pipeline across Total shareholder return three years Halma FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment 250% 200% 150% 100% 50% March 2014 March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 sectors and in the increasing number We have completed the search for products launched in the past three ofvisits made to targeted businesses.
thenew role of Chief Innovation years has been around 22% although The M&A market continues to be andDigital Officer for the Halma the individual company metrics range competitive with high multiples being Executive Board and are pleased to from single digit to over 50%.
paid for businesses in many of our announce that Inken Braunschmidt will attractive market niches.
This be joining the Group in early July 2017.
Since 2004, the best examples of highlights the need for us to build Inken will be joining us from innogy SE, innovation in Halma have been strong relationships with business a renewables energy company based in celebrated and recognised each year owners, sometimes over a number of Essen, Germany and spun out of RWE through the Halma Annual Innovation years, so that they already seeHalma in 2016.
In recent years, Inken ledthe Awards.
All employees are able to as a great home for their business innovation and digital transformation enter, offering them a first prize of when they eventually decide to sell.
at RWE with a customer and people- 20,000.
This year the winner of centred approach.
Prior to that, Inken theNew Product award was BEAs Every transaction is approved by the was MD of RWEs Strategy and Flatscan laser sensor, which has Group Chief Executive and Group Management Consultancy practice.
transformed safety in swinging doors Finance Director, with all deals Her role at Halma will similarly be as well as promising further growth 10mor over requiring Halma plc critical in both accelerating the opportunities inother markets.
development of innovative digital Firstprize in theProcess award was strategies and in building a stronger FortressInterlocks online interactive In January 2017, we acquired FluxData, collaborative community both inside tool which helps customers easily a New York based manufacturer of the Group andwith external partners.
configure and order customised advanced multi-spectral and digital products from a standard product imaging systems for multiple market In April 2017, we held our biennial platform.
The Collaboration segments including industrial and innovation, collaboration and categorywas won by Ocean Optics medical applications.
FluxData builds on experimentation event, HITEx in andFiberguide who co-developed multi-spectral imaging capabilities that SanDiego, USA.
Board members aproduct to test the authenticity already exist in our Environmental & fromall Halma companies attended ofbank notes in China.
Joining Halma offers athree-day event which included FluxData theopportunity toaccess sessions focused on harnessing new Corporate responsibility and newniches and regions for safety, technologies, developing more sustainability is at Halmas core health and environmental markets.
ambitious growth strategies and Halmas core strategy is to protect Theconsideration paid was understanding the value of strategic lifeand improve quality of life for US$12m 9.9m with further partnerships.
As always, the event people worldwide.
Our primary market contingent consideration ofup highlighted the impressive capabilities growth drivers mean that Halma toUS$15.5m 12.8m based on and growth potential of our businesses companies operate in markets in itsperformance to 31 March 2019. but also reminded us of the need to which their products contribute constantly improve and change in positively to the wider community.
Increasing strategic investment for orderto be successful in the future.
These market characteristics and our th growth and the 4 Industrial Revolution commitment to health and safety, the We have a clear understanding of how R&D spend increased environment and people development we want our businesses to benefit to 5.3% of revenue are reflected in the values held by our from being part of Halma.
We New product innovation is a vital employees and our operating culture.
demonstrate this by making targeted component of creating organic central investments and building a growthand enables each Halma A detailed report on our approach to strong collaborative culture.
Over company to increase its revenue Corporate Responsibility, including thepast decade, our primary focus andprofitability through market ourCO emissions reduction 2 has been on Talent Development, sharegain and market expansion.
performance, is on pages 56 to 59.
These central investments Our investment in new product Outlook have led to individual sector initiatives development increased substantially, Halma operates in a diverse range targeted at opportunities and with a record R&D spend up by 23% ofmarket niches where demand challenges which are particularly to50.6m 2016: 41.2m.
This was a issupported by resilient long-term relevant to that sector.
13% increase at constant currency and growth drivers.
We are able to grow represented 5.3% of Group revenue faster than our markets through Increasingly, we are seeing the 2016: 5.1%, also a new record.
sustainable and increasing investment opportunities and challenges of the in innovation, international expansion th 4 Industrial Revolution and we are The decentralised nature of Halma and strategy-led talent management.
gaining a better appreciation of the means that each Halma company Our growth mind-set extends to our influential role that we can play in the determines its own R&D spend M&A activity where we buy businesses development of our safety, health and according to its market opportunity.
to increase investment for growth environmental markets.
Many of All four sectors increased R&D spend rather than reduce costs.
ourbusinesses have been using or with the relative investment levels experimenting with technologies such ranging from 3.6% of revenue for Since the period end, order intake has as robotics and 3D printing for some Process Safety up to 6.9% for continued to be ahead of revenue and time.
Increasingly our products are Environmental & Analysis.
We expect to sensing, analysing and communicating make further progress in the year data either as part of a larger We track the effectiveness of this ahead in line with our expectations.
connected system or as stand-alone investment in a variety of ways solutions.
In order to be successful in including the proportion of revenue this changing world the ability to generated from new products Andrew Williams combine technologies is increasingly launched in the past three years.
Chief Executive important and weare relentlessly Overthe past four years, the average 1 See Highlights improving our collaborative capabilities.
contribution to Group revenue from 2 See note 1 to the Accounts 9 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Understanding our stakeholders needs Chief Executive Q&A What is Halmas How do this years results What is Halmas acquisition track Q financial model?
Q record over the past ten years?
Halma has a simple financial model.
These results show the benefits of Our strong financial resources have Our aspiration is to double every five ourmarket and geographic diversity.
enabled us to spend 645m on years, through a mix of acquisitions Having an agile and flexible operating 26acquisitions since 2007.
In the and organic growth.
Because we model means our businesses can lastfew years, we have added generate high returns and strong cash adjust quickly to their markets, as dedicated M&A resources at sector generation, we are able toinvest for opportunities change.
Having a level, making us well placed to growth as well paying an increasing fide-centralised model is at the heart continue this successful track record.
ofour financial performance supporting 14 consecutive years of How will Halma sustain What is record revenues, profits and dividends.
Halmas strategy is based on growth, How has Halma performed We choose markets with resilient organically and through acquisitions.
growth drivers, including increased In 2014 we created four sectors, safety regulation, increasing demand Very strongly.
Halmas growth and miniHalmas Process Safety, for healthcare and life-critical consistency is a key differentiator.
Infrastructure Safety, Medical and resources e. g. water.
Within these TheGroup has delivered revenue Environmental & Analysis each with markets, weselect product niches growth in 41 of the past 43 years, the potential to be the size of Halma with strong intellectual property that anda return on sales higher than 16% today.
This gives us a structure to deliver high, sustainable returns.
Over the past support growth over the medium to Wehave an agile, fide-centralised decade, revenue has grown every year, long term, while retaining the unique, operating model which makes from 355mto 962m, aCAGR of decentralised operating model that sureresources are placed close to c. 10%.
In the same period, profit has has driven our success.
We drive organic growth grown from 66m to 194m.
This has set-up means we can maintain the through investment in innovation enabled us to increase our dividend current pace of acquisitions and e. g. R&D spend has grown from by5% or more every year for the continue to focus on relatively small 15.3mto 50.6msince 2007, past38 years.
It is also helping to drive international expansion e. g. revenue organic growth for example, through from outside the UK, Europe What does Halma look sharing technology, pooling information andtheUSA has increased from Q forinacquisitions?
on our customers and collaborating 67.8mto251.1m since 2007 for international expansion.
We typically acquire relatively small andtalent a major priority and businesses, in the 10m to 100m competitive differentiator for us.
pricerange, that share Halmas Acquisitions are also an important keycharacteristics.
They operate in, part of our growth.
and adjacent to, our existing markets and are financially strong.
Most of these deals we sourceourselves.
