AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW WHILST CONDITIONS REMAIN CHALLENGING IN OUR CORE OIL & GAS AND MARINE MARKETS, OUR BUSINESS HAS SEEN EXCELLENT SUCCESSES IN OUR KEY GROWTH INDUSTRIES.
As expected, AVEVAs financial The strength of our product offering WE MADE GOOD performance was resilient despite the was demonstrated by several key PROGRESS IN challenging conditions in our core end new business wins during the year.
In addition to delivering solid These included wins in both markets DELIVERING AGAINST results, we made good progress in that offer growth opportunities OUR STRATEGY DURING delivering against our strategy during for us and in our more mature the year and in structuring the business product and geographic areas.
THE YEAR AND IN to enable future growth.
Revenue STRUCTURING THE increased 7.1% to 215.8 million 2016 During the year, I took over as CEO and BUSINESS TO ENABLE 201.5 million, assisted by a currency David Ward transitioned to the post of translation benefit of 11.4%.
We have both been in the FUTURE GROWTH before tax grew to 46.9 million 2016 business for many years and were core 29.4 million, supported by a strong to formulating AVEVAs strategy.
On an adjusted plan to continue to pursue this strategy, basis, profit before tax grew 7.4% to with a sharp focus on execution and 55.0 million 2016 51.2 million.
getting closer to our customers.
As part of this, I have simplified AVEVAs On a regional basis, revenue in the management structure with greater Americas grew due to a strong decision-making capabilities and direct performance in North America, partly accountability for performance being offset by difficult market conditions allocated to our regions.
I have also in Latin America, specifically in Brazil.
added more customer-facing people to AVEVAs performance in EMEA and Asia our Executive team, including a recently Pacific was robust in the context of the recruited Chief Revenue Officer, who subdued Oil & Gas and Marine markets.
will take overall responsibility for Overall Group revenue declined in leading Global Sales, Partnership constant currency terms by 3.8%, Management and Marketing.
although we did see an improvement in the second half.
Excluding Latin America, Group revenue declined only 2.3% in constant currency terms for the 11.4% full year, and was flat in the second half.
Constant currency growth in Power revenue We made good progress in executing our strategy.
On a constant currency basis, we delivered good growth with More Than 3D MT3D, Owner 5.4% Operators and sales to the Power Constant currency growth in sector.
Owner Operator revenue James Kidd Chief Executive Officer S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C REP EPO OR RT T 1 15 5 Delivery against our strategy More than 3D: We see a major Growth markets: AVEVA generates AVEVAs strategy is to increase market opportunity in leveraging our approximately half of its revenue revenues by growing the addressable customer base and market position from EMEA.
This largely relates to market for its products as the concept by selling additional engineering our heritage as a UK-based of the Digital Asset is more widely software tools, extending beyond company.
Over time, we intend to adopted: to sell a wider range of our core 3D design platforms.
grow our revenues in key markets products: and to grow in industry and Further to this, information such as the USA and China, using geographic verticals where the Groups management tools such as AVEVA the competitive advantages that our market share is underweight, versus NET, can generate revenue products offer.
the strength of its product offering.
throughout the operation life cycle of assets, therefore expanding the Broaden market exposure: We Notwithstanding the cyclical headwinds market that we address.
aim to grow our market share in in end markets that AVEVA has industries beyond our core Oil & Gas experienced in the recent past, we Owner Operators: OOs such as and Marine markets, with a particular expect our strategy to deliver solid energy and power generation focus, in the short term, on Power, organic growth in the long term, across companies currently only account by applying the strength of our core end market cycles.
for approximately 16% of our technology and the rich knowledge revenue.
However, a significant of our people in these markets.
The building blocks of this strategy market opportunity is developing as are as follows.
OOs increasingly adopt the Digital Software as a Service SaaS and the Asset concept to help them manage Cloud: We intend to unify all of our their physical assets throughout applications onto a common Cloud their life cycles.
platform to provide greater value to our customers and address a wider customer base.
CASE STUDY GROWTH MARKETS AVEVA is an established global company with 50 offices in 30 countries.
As such, we can provide customers with local sales and support in all of the worlds major economies.
Notwithstanding this, AVEVA was not the first mover in some of the worlds key growth markets and therefore has underweight positions due to the stickiness of customers to incumbent providers.
We believe that our products offer a strong advantage over competing offerings, due to their inherent integration based on our leading object-modelling technology, which reduces complexity and lowers the total cost of ownership for our customers.
Our strategy is therefore to apply our KEY GROWTH MARKET SUCCESSES competitive advantage to gain share in key target markets.
We are enjoying considerable success in North America, DURING THE YEAR INCLUDED EXPANDING where our strategy of leading with sales to Owner OUR BUSINESS WITH SOUTHERN Operators, often with innovative MT3D product offerings, is delivering strong results.
COMPANY IN THE USA AND SINOPEC ENGINEERING GROUP IN CHINA.
18.9% For details of our strategy see pages 8 to 9.
AVEVAs constant currency growth in North America WWW.
COM AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED More than 3D MT3D Growth markets AVEVAs MT3D sales grew during the We enjoyed success in North year, increasing 2.1% on a constant America, where our local strategy currency basis.
MT3D products of leading with sales to OOs and represented 26.5% of total revenue, of MT3D products is working well, increasing from 25.2% in the prior and we achieved significant new year.
Sales of our wider product suite business wins.
The business grew by have been a feature of this years key 18.9% during the year on a constant customer wins, with for example currency basis.
We continue to see the AVEVA NET and AVEVA Engage growth potential in China, where information management tools helping successes during the year included to strengthen our offer to OOs.
expanding our business with Sinopec Engineering Group, which adopted We are also achieving success AVEVAs Integrated Engineering and in leveraging our existing EPC Design solution for effective design, Engineering, Procurement and collaboration and improved efficiency.
Construction customer base to sell However, overall our business there MT3D products.
We have developed was broadly flat during the year, our technology to help deliver being impacted by tougher market Building Information Management conditions, particularly in shipbuilding.
BIM projects in Infrastructure not only to help satisfy any BIM Broaden market exposure mandate, but also to support faster, We made good progress during the more effective project execution year in broadening our market exposure and handover through improved away from the cyclical Oil & Gas and data management.
A good example Marine end markets.
We enjoyed is Jacobs, who have used AVEVA particular success in Power where technologies AVEVA NET, AVEVA revenue increased 11.4% on a constant Engineering and AVEVA Information currency basis during the year.
Our Standards Manager to meet their software is well suited to creating and clients information management managing large complex projects, and BIM level 2 requirements, and such as gas powered and nuclear to achieve efficiency improvements power stations.
During the year, we for a UK highways project.
achieved several key wins within the Power market with Southern Company Owner Operators and TerraPower in the USA, KEPCO AVEVAs sales to OOs also grew during EPC in Korea and Japan Nuclear Fuel.
the year, increasing 5.4% on a constant We also achieved success in Paper & currency basis.
OOs represented Pulp, where Valmet, the leading global 16.2% of total revenue, increasing developer and supplier of technologies, from 14.9% in the prior year.
We had automation and services for the pulp, particular success in North America and paper and energy industries, signed a Asia, where we won contracts in the multi-year agreement for AVEVA E3D.
Petrochemical & Chemical and Power sectors.
These included KEPCO E&C, a AVEVA also enjoyed success in the leading global energy solutions provider steel fabrication market where sales based in South Korea, which chose increased by 10.0% on a constant AVEVA for a full range of 3D and MT3D currency basis as we continue to design and information management integrate and leverage the Bocad products for its new nuclear power and FabTrol acquisitions.
Similarly, another leading power generation OO, Southern Company, in the USA, selected our design and information management tools to help improve project execution efficiency and asset information access.
Meanwhile, we strengthened our relationship with Eastman, a global speciality chemical company.
STRATEGIC REPORT 17 SaaS and the Cloud Our technology ON A CONSTANT While AVEVAs business model Our software is used by customers CURRENCY BASIS, already has the high level of recurring as they design, build and operate subscription revenues typically large capital-intensive assets, mainly WE DELIVERED GOOD associated with Cloud delivery, we in the Process, Power and Marine GROWTH WITH MORE aim to be technologically ready to industries.
Our vision is for the offer our products on a SaaS model widespread adoption of constantlyTHAN 3D MT3D, in response to customer demand.
evolving Digital Assets, enabling OOs AND SALES TO our customers to manage continual For the industries we serve, there change as they design, build and THE POWER SECTOR are several challenges facing our operate some of the worlds most customers which need to be overcome complicated physical assets.
before there is a full transition to Cloud.
However, over time we do We believe that our products offer a expect that customers will want strong advantage over competing to explore ways of using the Cloud offerings, due to their inherent to drive efficiency and improve integration based on our leading object collaboration through the supply chain modelling technology, which reduces and operating cycle of their assets.
complexity and lowers the total cost of ownership for our customers.
We launched our Cloud platform AVEVA Connect together with our first AVEVAs heritage is in 3D design, where SaaS offering, Asset Visualisation, at our core products are AVEVA PDMS the AVEVA World Summit in October Plant Design Management System, 2016.
AVEVA Connect is our SaaS AVEVA E3D and AVEVA Marine ecosystem for Engineering, Design products.
These products represented and Information Management 73.5% of 2016 17 revenues.
Asset Visualisation is is the latest generation 3D product our new Information Management which carries a price premium as a Service offering.
There is a reflecting its higher productivity and willingness from the OOs to move advanced feature set.
towards SaaS for the provision of the Digital Asset and we expect these AVEVA E3D grew strongly during the products to gain traction with major year as existing customers continued customers in the medium term.
to migrate towards it and new contracts were won.
It contributed almost 13% of In April this year, we launched a second total revenue, up from below 10% in SaaS offering on AVEVA Connect, the prior year.
The Sales team has now been equipped Within More than 3D, the largest to sell these solutions and we have product sets are schematics brought on board several major oil applications such as Piping and Owner Operators as early adopters.
Instrumentation Diagram P&ID, Both Asset Visualisation and Instrumentation & Electrical Information Standards Management applications and our unique multiprovide entry points for our Owner discipline AVEVA Engineering solution: Operator customers to access Digital together with information Asset-as-a-Service solutions flexibly management applications such as and cost effectively.
These areas grew during the year with strong growth in information management sales particularly to the Owner Operators.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED Our markets and our customers Oil & Gas AVEVAs key end markets are In the Oil & Gas industry, end-market Oil & Gas, Marine, Power and demand was weak, with global industry Petrochemical & Chemical.
Other capital expenditure falling by over 40% markets we serve include Architecture, between calendar 2014 and calendar Construction & Steel Fabrication, 2016 Sources: Barclays, Bank of Mining & Minerals Processing, America Merrill Lynch.
Oil & Gas accounts for 4045% This decline had a significant impact on of revenue, Marine 20%, Power the workloads of our EPC customers, 1520%, Petrochemical & Chemical with the more complex and therefore 10% and the remainder 10%.
design-intensive greenfield upstream and offshore projects being impacted AVEVA has four main groups most significantly.
These are EPCs, demand for our software.
EPC customers tend to favour a rental EPCs primarily use AVEVAs software model for software, meaning that their to design and build industrial assets, spend with AVEVA adjusts to market such as oil platforms, power stations demand relatively quickly and some and process plants for OOs.
Demand EPCs have reduced their seat count from EPCs for AVEVAs products is reflecting lower activity.
There was therefore impacted by end market also some consolidation amongst demand and particularly the level of EPCs and in the oil services sector capital expenditure on new installations more generally.
However, as OOs seek and brownfield projects.
AVEVA has to extend the life of existing assets, strong long-standing relationships we saw an increase in revamps and with many leading EPCs.
The large, modifications known as brownfield global EPCs are managed as strategic projects, which helped to sustain a partnerships through AVEVAs level of demand from EPCs, although Global Accounts programme.
these projects are typically shorter in duration and lower in value.
OOs are key to achieving AVEVAs vision of a constantly-evolving Digital Asset.
Due to the downturn in the Oil & Gas Whereas historically the Digital Asset industry, OOs are putting pressure was core only to the design phase on EPCs to reduce the cost of capital of physical assets, it is now widely projects, often by up to 50%.
This is accepted that Digital Assets can help putting pressure on the margins of the OOs to drive efficiency and reduce EPCs and they have been forced to look risk through minimising downtime at how they become more efficient and and unplanned outages, while reduce the cost of projects.
EPCs are complying with ever more stringent also increasingly looking to technology environmental and safety legislation.
to help drive efficiency in projects.
Our integrated engineering and design We won 9 new OO customers approach, which helps manage the during the year and significantly engineering data across the different expanded our business with engineering disciplines, is receiving very several existing OO customers.
positive feedback, enabling customers to reduce the total cost of ownership compared to our competition.
An area of focus for EPCs has been around reducing the cost of supporting, maintaining and developing in-house systems by looking to third-party vendors such as AVEVA to replace these with commercial software products.
STRATEGIC REPORT 19 This is particularly pronounced Marine As with Oil & Gas, the Marine market is around materials procurement and AVEVA is a market leader in Marine forecast by commentators such as construction management, given design software, with customers Clarksons Research to recover from the that many still use in-house systems including 90% of the worlds largest current trough conditions.
As such we are seeing shipyards.
The Marine market is in a activity to increase as overcapacity in significant interest in our Enterprise cyclical trough, with a relatively low the world fleet reduces and demand for Resource Management product.
number of new ship builds ongoing.
specialist ships such as Floating Shipyard customers typically prefer an Production, Storage and Offloading We are also seeing EPCs start Initial Licence Fee model, because they vessels and naval vessels grows, to consider standardising their view software as a longer-term although again, the exact timing of a engineering technology strategy investment rather than being project market recovery is difficult to predict.
on one toolset and we believe specific.
This results in annual that we are well positioned to maintenance payments continuing capitalise on that trend.
even in tougher market conditions.
Our recurring revenue from the Marine Oil & Gas industry capital expenditure market was broadly flat during the year.
is forecast to increase in future years as investments are made to maintain We are also winning significant new production and reserves.
There are business in the sector, with new wins early signs of improvement in the in Europe, including a customer market, however the exact timing of a focused on cruise ships, and in Asia, market recovery is difficult to predict.
where we won a major South East Asian customer focused on Marine and offshore capital projects.
CASE STUDY BROADENING MARKET EXPOSURE AVEVA has a high proportion of recurring revenues at 76.9% in 2016 17 due to our right-to-use licensing model.
Notwithstanding this resilience, some 65% of our revenues are generated in the Oil & Gas and Marine markets.
To an extent therefore, the Groups growth prospects have historically been materially influenced by end market conditions within these markets e. g. the number of oil installations and ships being ordered, designed, built and operated.
Both Oil & Gas and Marine have grown over the long term, but have been subject to short-term cyclicality.
As such, our strategy is to broaden our exposure to other KEY SUCCESSES IN BROADENING industries, which are growing, offering the opportunity to OUR MARKET EXPOSURE DURING achieve market share gains in areas that are less cyclical than our core markets.
THE YEAR INCLUDED NEW ORDER WINS AND EXPANDING OUR BUSINESS Our focus in 2016 17 was on obtaining share gains in the Power industry.
We achieved great success in this WITH JAPAN NUCLEAR FUEL, KEPCO endeavour, developing our business with multiple OO E&C, SOUTHERN COMPANY, customers as well as with companies involved in the design and production of generation technology.
11.4% For details of our strategy see page 8 to 9.
COM AVEVAs constant currency growth in the Power sector AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED Power Outlook We had significant success in the We believe that AVEVA has both Power market during the year, winning the market opportunity and the several new contracts with both utilities right strategy to deliver substantial and power systems design companies.
growth over the longer term.
Longer-term trends in the Power In the short term, demand cycles market are positive as the worlds within our end markets have had an emerging economies invest in their impact on growth.
Our core markets power generation requirements and the of Oil & Gas and Marine, which ageing infrastructure of the developed together account for over 60% of world is maintained and replaced.
Group revenue, have been in a cyclical trough over the last three years.
In the shorter term, AVEVA benefited from market share gains and There are early signs of improvement requirements from operators in the in Oil & Gas.
Although the timing sector for both design and information of a full recovery in demand is still management tools, as they seek uncertain, we expect that as the to improve asset efficiency.
headwinds lessen, the growth resulting from our strategic initiatives will Petrochemical & Chemical begin to show at the Group level.
We saw ongoing investment in the sector during the year, particularly in The Board remains confident in Asia, with stable market conditions on a the long-term strength of AVEVAs global basis.
AVEVA enjoyed success in business model, the deliverability winning new OO customers in Asia of its organic growth strategy and during the year in the refining sector.
its positioning to benefit from a recovery in our end markets.
Other markets Conditions in AVEVAs other markets are less subject to cyclical volatility, James Kidd meaning that AVEVA can grow in a Chief Executive Officer more linear fashion through the 23 May 2017 execution of its strategy.
Notable developments during the year included solid constant currency growth in sales to fabricators and a new OO customer win in the Pharmaceutical sector.
In the Fabrication sector, AVEVA provides integrated end-to-end solutions for 3D modelling, detailing and fabrication of structural steelwork.
This enables rapid, high-quality fabrication and construction for on-time, on-budget, integrated project execution for customers specialising in the engineering, manufacturing and assembly of advanced steel structures.
In 2016 17 our revenue from Fabricator customers increased 10.0% on a constant currency basis.
