08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC UPDATE By listening to our customers and simplifying how we do things, I believe we have the right strategy in place to make M&S a relevant, pro table and truly sustainable retailer.
STEVE ROWE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW The business has adapted well as we start to Our customer-focused changes are most build a sustainable foundation for the future.
keenly felt in our stores.
We invested in A year ago, I started in my role as Chief We have laid a lot of the groundwork for customer service by recruiting additional Executive by posing a series of questions our recovery: however, we are not there yet.
colleagues into the areas we know are most that I hoped would help unlock the future of I want to see consistent delivery over time important to our customers.
We also rolled M&S, giving us a platform from which to first and I want to see us move out of recovery.
out our Making Every Moment Special recover and then to grow.
2016 17 has been Even as our performance improves, we in-store service initiative.
a year of change as we started to answer cant stand still.
While we are still focused these questions, which I address below.
Read more about Making Every Moment on recovering our business and we have a Special below The steps we are taking are making a lot more to do, I am also starting to look Our new Spend It Well marketing campaign diff erence and we are making progress.
to future growth opportunities, some of like our Mrs Claus Christmas campaign However, as we said when we set out our which I outline at the end of this update.
before it focuses squarely on our plan, it has resulted in some short-term customers lifestyles.
It taps into peoples pain.
Some of the action needed has been OUR CUSTOMERS emotional connection with M&S and is costly and pro ts are down.
Clothing & We asked how we could put customers at aimed at driving a reappraisal of our brand.
Home sales were down year-on-year as we the heart of everything we do.
Due to the Life is short so we should Spend It Well.
The reduced promotions and markdown activity.
changes weve made, we are now a more campaign encourages customers to make We expected this and we still believe we are data-driven organisation where decisions the most of whats relevant for them today.
doing the right thing for the future of our are made based on what we know about business.
We have seen encouraging signs our customers, not what we think we know.
CLOTHING & HOME from the increase in full-price Clothing & We conduct more customer listening Home sales and in the sales growth during We asked how we could recover and grow groups than ever before: all trading the key Christmas trading period.
And in our Clothing & Home business.
The answer meetings now begin with insight into our lay in making a series of common sense, Food, we continued to grow ahead of the customers: and, as we celebrate ten years customer-focused changes to the way we market with new stores outperforming of leading the social and environmental expectations.
In a tough market, I am pleased agenda, we have repurposed Plan A to with the progress we are making.
MAKING EVERY MOMENT SPECIAL Our Making Every Moment Special colleagues has been phenomenal and as employee engagement programme has positive as anything Ive known in my 28 been transformational for our customers years at M&S.
Our Customer at the Heart and our people alike.
Through it, we believe site on Yammer, our internal social media weve taken customer service to new levels.
network, contains thousands of examples Last summer, we gave over 70,000 store of great service by our colleagues.
colleagues interactive training with the Throughout our 133-year history, we have objective of putting customers at the heart learnt that better service leads to better of what we do.
We encouraged them to make sales.
Making Every Moment Special shows real-time decisions based on individual this principle in action.
It has become our customers needs and we removed nonmantra across the business.
By empowering customer-facing tasks from their daily our people to make customer-focused routines, giving them more time to spend decisions, our sales oors are buzzing with customers.
The response from with a renewed sense of purpose.
09 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 OUR STRATEGY CUSTOMERS AND BRAND PUTTING THE CUSTOMER AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO RECOVER AND GROW CONTINUE TO GROW CLOTHING & HOME FOOD STYLE AUTHORITY NEWNESS CONVENIENCE QUALITY QUALITY Focus on product Drive execution Focus on product Drive execution Style, wardrobe Price, availability Innovation, health Price, availability essentials and t and service and capability and convenience UK STORE ESTATE INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATION & COSTS Grow Food space Focus on partnership Create a lean, eff ective model and online Head Offi ce c. 60 fewer, more inspirational Clothing & Home stores Drive execution Continue to develop price, availability and service cost culture Rebalance c. 50 stores to growth areas We made shopping simpler for customers We started off ering better value than ever We are still in the recovery phase of our plan by reducing the number of times we launch before by reducing prices on 2,400 Clothing and getting it right is absolutely crucial to new lines from 14 to nine times a year.
We simultaneously reduced our success.
In May this year, we announced We cut the number of garment options our promotional activity.
This put an end to a new role to lead this work.
We are phasing out the Indigo, confusing pricing which meant our products will join as Managing Director, Clothing, Collezione and North Coast sub-brands.
were either too expensive or too heavily Home & Beauty and will have overall pro t These measures enabled us to improve discounted.
Not only have these changes and loss accountability for all aspects of availability across our ranges.
Previously, given clarity to customers, but they made our Clothing & Home business, from design we acted too much like a fast fashion our sales more pro table and boosted our and sourcing through to supply chain and company, prioritising frequency over quality full-price market share.
The scope of this role highlights and taking too many cues from catwalk the importance we are placing on We also made our stores far easier to shop fashions.
So we improved our ts, fabrics continuing to recover and starting to in by merchandising more of our clothes and nishes, we increased availability and grow Clothing & Home.
We are making by product category rather than by brand.
we refocused on delivering contemporary encouraging progress and I believe we This change in emphasis re ected the wearable style and wardrobe essentials.
are on the right path to growth.
changes we made last year to the way our Our ranges are now more relevant to what teams design and buy products.
Our shops customers want from M&S.
are now simpler and more intuitive.
They are based around customers needs.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS E M O H & L G A N I N H T O O I L T C A N R E T N I S G M T N A I T R O E K 10 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC UPDATE CONTINUED OUR OPERATING MODEL Simplicity and accountability are key to running an agile and successful business.
We are therefore changing our operating model to give us two clear pro t LOGISTICS HR and loss accountabilities one for our Clothing & Home business unit and one for our Food business unit.
Both sides of the business are now responsible for their own end-to-end pro t & loss.
com has moved from IT being a separate business unit to being FINANCE a sales channel, along with Stores and International.
All three channels now feed into our two business units, with our CUSTOMERS customers at the centre.
Underpinning these changes is the ongoing drive for A simplicity in the way we do things.
CORPORATE PLAN A GOVERNANCE PROPERTY COMMUNICATIONS FOOD Last year I asked what our right cost base, At the same time, customers want to shop in shape and structure was, and how this modern stores that off er a great experience.
These are would aff ect our people.
In April 2017, we Our store portfolio needs to re ect how the reasons why customers love our food.
nalised the pay and pensions changes people live their lives today.
These are also the reasons why our Food that I outlined last year and we now reward business is on a clear path to sustainable So we announced plans to rebalance our our people in a fairer, more consistent way.
We know that selling quality food UK space to meet changing customer I am immensely proud that we now have from convenient locations is a winning needs.
The transformation will enable us pay and bene t parity across the business.
formula: sales from the 30 owned Simply to grow Clothing & Home sales through Following detailed consultation with our Food stores we opened this year are ahead fewer, better stores.
Over five years, we will National Business Involvement Group of of plan.
Well continue to grow our Food change the use of around 25% of our space, elected employee representatives, we now business by opening 250 further Food with more of it being deployed to Food and off er one of the best reward packages in stores by 2020.
Were succeeding in other growth areas.
Clothing & Home space UK retail.
our aim of making every food moment will reduce by around 10%.
Customers love our high levels of In November, we outlined further plans to 30 full-line stores will close, and 45 will be innovation we renew around a quarter simplify the business and lower our costs.
of our range every year and they love This resulted in a reduction of roles at our To be clear, this is neither a withdrawal nor a the high quality of our products.
We wont Head Offi ce and the decision to reduce our retrenchment.
Due to our ambitious Food accept second-rate ingredients.
In a world central London offi ce space as we move expansion we will have more stores in the where you get what you pay for, it shows.
to more effi cient ways of working.
But our estate will be the This year we extended Collection, our of these decisions had a direct impact on shape which meets how our customers top tier range for customers who want a number of our employees.
But I believe want to shop at M&S.
And customers our people recognise that we made them know they can trust us on health.
It is their for the right reasons and that they were Our International operations have also number one concern when it comes to necessary for our sustainable growth.
While our franchise business with buying food, so we launched 200 new our knowledgeable partners is pro table, I would like to thank all our people for their products aimed at helping our customers our owned estate is not.
This is unsustainable, dedication and professionalism in a year to eat well, and extended our Made Without, so we are focusing on our joint venture and of signi cant but necessary change.
Balanced for You and Eat Well ranges.
franchise partnerships and our growing The grocery market continues to be very online business, and exiting ten of our lossSTORE ESTATE AND INTERNATIONAL competitive but we will continue to set making owned markets.
The programme is ourselves apart with superior quality, Our customers shopping habits are on track.
We have now closed all ten of our innovation and convenient food in changing, so I asked whether our UK and stores in China and completed employee convenient locations.
As we grow our International store estate is the right shape consultations in the remaining markets.
Food store presence, our food will be even for the future.
Customers behaviour We remain a signi cant player on the global more accessible to more customers.
is evolving, and the pace of change is stage with a store or online presence in accelerating.
Rather than doing one big 55 markets.
I believe in an international OUR PEOPLE food shop a week, there is a growing trend business for M&S and remain committed of customers picking up food for now or for to it.
By thinking, working and behaving with tonight.
Look at how people use technology.
a truly customer-centric mindset, I believe These changes show that were willing to Theyll browse or buy online and collect in our people are integral to our success.
adapt to ensure were in the best shape for store.
Or theyll buy on their smartphone our customers.
com now account for 17% of Clothing & Home sales.
K E R R T A I N E M G S M O C. S & M D O O F 11 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 COSTS OUR CHAIRMAN But to do this year-in, year-out, we must constantly adapt.
We must adapt both to stay Cost control remains a top priority.
Our Chairman, Robert Swannell, has in tune with our customers needs and in the Our operating costs were up 3.8% this announced that he will step down in way we sell our products.
Shopping habits year as we put more colleagues into stores September.
On behalf of all of us at M&S, I wont stop changing, so neither must we.
and absorbed the costs of our Food store wish Robert well.
He has overseen signi cant opening programme.
We funded some of change at M&S.
Our infrastructure now As Chief Executive, I want to make M&S agile this through our Crunch Costs initiative, provides a strong platform for growth, and and exible enough to change with our which challenged all of our people to tackle Robert has been instrumental in driving customers.
I want to see the end of big unnecessary costs, and from simplifying shareholder engagement, good governance transformation programmes followed by our Head Offi ce structure.
Better buying and succession planning.
He has also been years of standing still, followed by yet more initiatives, such as direct design and food a tremendous support to me personally transformation.
Remaining relevant should packaging optimisation, mitigated the over the last year.
On behalf of the whole be a continuous process.
currency headwinds we saw on both sides business, I would like to welcome Roberts By simplifying how we do things and really of the business.
The steps weve taken to successor, Archie Norman.
listening to our customers, weve already transform M&S led to charges of 437.4m become more agile this year.
These were largely driven by LOOKING AHEAD our Clothing ranges and reshaping our store charges for International store closures My priorities for the year ahead are to portfolio, weve started to put this agility and for the changes to pay and pensions.
continue to recover and grow Clothing & into practice.
In doing this, weve built a solid Home and to grow our Food business.
I will While pro ts were signi cantly down, foundation for growth.
We must never stop also establish the foundations for new I continue to believe in good cash adapting our business for our customers.
In the UK, these will focus management, a robust balance sheet and Nothing makes me prouder of the work our on areas of market share opportunity in a progressive dividend policy.
We know how Kidswear, Footwear, Home and Beauty.
teams do than hearing from our customers important our dividend is to shareholders and what they love about M&S.
Those Internationally, we will explore new territories big and small.
customers are the reason were here.
They with our franchise partners.
And I will continue Read more in the Financial Review on p26-29 will remain at the heart of everything we do.
to develop talent within the organisation.
It continues to be a privilege to lead this fantastic company.
Our job as a retailer is quite simple: we must off er customers great products at the right price in physical or STEVE ROWE CHIEF EXECUTIVE digital environments that they enjoy, with great service.
If we do this, they will come back to us for more.
OPERATING COMMITTEE Steve Rowe Helen Weir Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Andy Adcock Chief Executive Chief Finance Offi cer Executive Director, Customer, Food Director Marketing & M&S.
com Sacha Berendji Paul Friston Dominic Fry David Guise Retail Director International Director Communications & Investor Human Resources Director Relations Director Jo Jenkins Amanda Mellor Womenswear, Lingerie & Group Secretary and Head Beauty Director of Corporate Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
