6 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executive Officers review Strategy Our vision is to be: The chosen partner around the Good operational delivery world for mission-critical solutions, innovating for our customers advantage.
To realise our vision we are and strategic progress.
implementing our three strategic priorities designed to grow the Company by focusing on our primary UK customer, on international customers and on innovation.
Our strategy is inherently outward looking, based on the needs of our customers now and in the future, and I am encouraged that our customer satisfaction scores increased this year.
To meet future customer needs, we are prioritising the rapid development of new capabilities to defeat emerging threats by embracing value-creating innovation.
We are also driving greater value for money for our customers, improving services and delivering savings in parallel.
To do this we connect supply chains and choose the right strategic partners from across industry with complementary capabilities to ours so that we can offer competitive and market-leading solutions.
As our total order intake and backlog demonstrate, we have been building positive momentum with the implementation of this strategy during the year.
UK Defence Test & Evaluation Our first strategic priority is to lead and modernise UK Defence Test & Evaluation T&E.
Delivering strong T&E capability is critical to ensuring reliable, flexible and affordable delivery of military capability to protect national interests.
By engaging with our customers, we have made positive progress, signing new agreements which nearly double our order book to more than 2bn and significantly improving revenue visibility and therefore the risk profile of our Company.
In September 2016, we secured an 11-year, 109m Steve Wadey extension to the Ministry of Defences MODs Chief Executive Officer Naval Combat System Integration Support Services NCSISS contract under which we lead the T&E, Market environment integration and development of mission systems that FY17 was another year in which threats to global keep the UKs surface warships at sea and fit to fight.
security from both state and non-state actors This is an excellent example of our strategy in action, with increased.
Governments are seeking help with a focus on partnership with our customers and across the the rapid development of new capabilities to defeat broader supply chain as we look to develop our Portsdown emerging threats and ensure they meet their primary Technology Park site as the UK Centre of Excellence for responsibility to protect and safeguard the lives of their maritime mission systems across the entire supply chain.
Our expertise in science and engineering is particularly relevant in this context: we also play a vital In December we signed an 11-year, 1bn amendment role in making connections, be they across technologies, to the Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA, the domains, supply chains or internationally.
largest and most significant contract since privatisation, which has significant mutual benefits for the MOD and FY17 performance QinetiQ.
For the MOD, it ensures the UK has world-class During the year we successfully achieved both competitive air ranges and training for test pilots and good operational delivery and significant progress aircrew, and delivers the capability at less cost.
For us, implementing our strategy.
This was evidenced by the it provides the platform we need for growth by creating delivery of organic revenue growth for the first time in more relevant and competitive T&E capability for the UK a number of years.
Revenue and operating profit were armed forces as well as governments and commercial stable in EMEA Services and up in Global Products, customers around the world.
driven by growth in QinetiQ North America.
We will continue to prioritise the delivery of sustainable Our focus during FY18 is to re-price the remaining LTPA growth with ongoing capital discipline.
contract, which is due on 31 March 2018, and to work together with the MOD and industry partners to develop a long-term vision for the UKs T&E capabilities.
O ur strategy is inherently outward looking... we have been building positive momentum with its implementation during the year.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Chief Executive Officers review 7 The objective of this vision is to deliver future military We are not going to win every campaign, but the scale capability for the next decade and beyond, addressing of the total opportunity is significant over a five to current and emerging threats.
This will provide a platform 10-year time period.
We will pursue these campaigns for growth in the UK T&E market, which we estimate to with vigour in FY18, as well as extending our focus be double that which we currently access, and improve to more international markets.
our ability to win work with customers outside the UK.
Transformation International We are on track to transform QinetiQ to improve At the beginning of FY17, we established an International customer focus and competitiveness.
During the year business focused on developing and securing growth we successfully introduced a new operating model based opportunities in prioritised territories around the world.
on matrix working to improve our responsiveness and This new International business has been established operational effectiveness.
We have also driven 20m as an enabler for the Group, bringing greater coherence of productivity savings that we have reinvested in Our strategic and focus to our activities internationally in relation to business winning and IRAD to support our future growth.
both organic and inorganic efforts, and encouraging I appreciate that this period of significant change has pillars a more global mind-set.
been difficult for many of our employees, and this is reflected in our engagement score which fell last year We have refined our strategy in In December 2016 we acquired Meggitts Target Systems although employee turnover remains low.
Moving into its first year of implementation.
business, now renamed QinetiQ Target Systems QTS, FY18, supporting and developing the culture required It remains built on three both to reinforce our core T&E value proposition and to deliver our transformation is a particular goal.
strategic pillars: accelerate the delivery of our strategic priority to drive international growth.
The business generates 90% of its Air accident UK We will lead and modernise the revenues from outside the UK and is well aligned with In July 2016, an air accident involving a contracted-in UK defence test and evaluation our capabilities in the management of complex exercises Yak aircraft operating in support of the Empire Test enterprise by working in and provision of test, evaluation and training services, Pilots School ETPS sadly resulted in the death of an partnership with Government thus expanding our core capability overseas.
We are now RAF pilot and serious injury to the contractor pilot.
uniquely placed to meet growing demand for midand are actively supporting the subsequent official inquiries high-fidelity targets to test defence capabilities against and will respond to all recommendations made.
Page 15 a greater diversity of threats.
The acquisition also opens up new routes to market to promote our wider service Outlook FY18 offerings to QTSs international customer base.
In EMEA Services, revenue under contract for FY18 is International in line with the prior year, and the division is expected We will build an international A key element of our international strategy is to build to deliver modest revenue growth this year although company that delivers additional our presence and capability in our home markets the lower baseline profit rate for single source contracts value to our customers by developing our home markets, outside the UK, notably the US and Australia.
QinetiQ represents a continued headwind for operating margins.
creating new home markets North America delivered very good orders and revenue and exporting.
With growing defence ambitions The Groups Global Products division has shorter order and close to the rapidly evolving Asia Pacific region, cycles than EMEA Services and its performance is Page 16 Australia is a particularly attractive market and our dependent on the timing of shipments of key orders.
business there had a record year for orders.
In January As a result of its contracted orders and pipeline of 2017, we also acquired RubiKon Group which brings opportunities, as well as the anticipated full year Innovation integrated logistics support capabilities to QinetiQ contribution from the Target Systems acquisition, We will invest in and apply our Australia.
RubiKon strengthens our ability to offer the division is expected to continue to grow in FY18.
core competences for customer integrated whole programme solutions that are often advantage in defence and required for strategic partner style contracts which are FY18 cash flow will reflect increasing investment, with commercial markets.
being used increasingly by the Australian Government.
capital expenditure of 80m to 100m, to support the amendment to the Long Term Partnering Agreement Page 17 In FY18 we intend to build on the progress we are announced in December 2016. making in our existing home markets by increasing our sales presence in regions such as the Middle East and Overall for FY18, we are maintaining expectations for Asia Pacific.
Negotiations over the UKs exit from the steady progress excluding the non-recurring benefits EU add complexity to our strategy for growth in Europe.
in FY17, supported by revenue growth and consistent However, many government relationships for defence with our strategy.
and security, particularly in Europe, are underpinned by bilateral and multilateral agreements.
Outlook longer term Rapidly changing dynamics in defence and security Innovation markets are presenting both opportunities and As customers demand more capability, and as challenges for our industry.
We are well placed to the boundaries between defence and commercial help customers both develop capabilities to defeat technologies become increasingly blurred, value-creating new threats and achieve greater value for money by innovation is vital to maintaining our distinctiveness in the improving services and delivering savings in parallel.
Technical innovation has been at the heart The initial progress we have made, combined with our of QinetiQs success to date, and will remain a key source ongoing assessment of the market environment, and, of growth into the future.
However, turning creativity and in particular, feedback from customers reinforce that technical innovation into tangible value for our customers we have the right strategy in place to drive future growth.
increasingly requires innovative thinking across the broader range of activities.
Over the longer term this strategy will create and sustain value for all our stakeholders.
Our customers In FY17, we established business winning campaigns will benefit from better products and services, increased supported by Internal Research and Development responsiveness, and improved value for money.
IRAD to drive commercial innovation, new processes, Our shareholders will benefit because we will deliver and innovative business models.
For each campaign sustainable growth in revenue, operating profit, and we consider the people, investments and partnerships high-quality earnings.
And our employees will benefit we need to be successful.
For example, to support because they will be able to utilise their experience the campaign to exploit our world-class capability more widely across QinetiQ, working in integrated in secured navigation receivers, we signed a global teams and enhancing professional satisfaction.
alliance agreement with Rockwell Collins, the market leader in secure military GPS receivers.
Steve Wadey Chief Executive Officer We have identified more than 30 growth campaigns in 25 May 2017 pursuit of material opportunities, all of which are worth tens of millions of pounds and in some cases more.
