Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 South West Water continues to invest The use of new technologies inprocesses such as Granular Activated helps to improve both the 70 Carbon GAC and Ultraviolet drinking water and performance and efficiency Disinfection UV, which is now used at wastewater sites using ofour operational assets.
70 of our drinking water and wastewater UV treatment processes treatment sites.
In the drinking water side of the business these processes are designed to improve the taste and odour of customer supplies while securing long-term compliance with water quality standards.
Technician Gary Hellier at Restormel Water Treatment Works 20 22 Review of the Chief Executive Officer Group performance 26 Our operations 26 Water and wastewater 32 Waste management 38 Report of the Chief Financial Officer 46 Risk report Improving the performance and efficiency of our assets 21 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Review of the Chief Executive Officer Our strategy is to lead in the UKs water and waste sectors, drive value through efficiency and invest for sustainable growth.
Chris Loughlin Chief Executive Officer Pennon Group achieved a strong performance in and waste sectors and, to that end, we have launched 2016 17.
Our strategy is to lead in the UKs water our HomeSafe programme see page 18.
As we andwaste sectors, invest for growth and drive value pursue our ambition, we can expect to see changes through efficiency.
I am pleased to say the Group is to how we evaluate and control risk, how we engage delivering against each of its strategic objectives with our employees, and how we build greater while achieving a return for shareholders in a leadership and accountability for health and safety.
Leadership in water and waste Health and safety We remain committed to delivering high quality During the year we were shocked and saddened services for the benefit of our customers, proactively bythe death of Viridor worker Rafal Swiadek at seeking to understand their needs and priorities and theMaterials Recycling Facility in Milton Keynes.
making the most of new technologies and innovation Nofatality is acceptable and I want to underline to deliver appropriate improvements.
theGroups commitment to health and safety.
South West Water once again outperformed its InJanuary 2017 we created the new role of director regulatory contract to achieve a sector-leading RoRE ofSafety, Health, Quality and Sustainability SHQS return on regulated equity of 12.6%.
In addition, andappointed Steve Holmes, who previously held SouthWest Water once again achieved ODI therole of Health, Safety, Security and Environment outperformance which has secured a net reward director for Amec Foster Wheeler.
He brings many of3.6 million in the year.
years of senior experience in operations, health and safety from industries including oil and gas, nuclear, In our waste operations, Viridor continues to be a power and rail.
leader following its significant investments in Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs in recent years.
We delivered This appointment is an important development for 107 million EBITDA, which is in excess of our target Pennon because it reflects our commitment at the of c. 100 million, and now have a clear track record of highest level to improve health and safety by utilising constructing and commissioning ERFs, and delivering concepts and learnings from other high hazard the operational and financial results.
Steve has a mandate from the Board to implement an enhanced strategy that will raise the We continued to drive returns from recycling through Groups performance and reinforce health and safety broader self-help measures that are reducing the as core to Pennons way of working.
Our ambition is cost base and improving utilisation of assets.
It is to be the health and safety leader in the UK water 22 encouraging to see these initiatives supporting an Other efficiency successes include the Groups increasing EBITDA.
We are also making progress in energy trading team which has developed a portfolio 129m commodity risk sharing with our recycling clients.
This addresses the energy demands of the Group and ensures Pennon is buying Cumulative totex Investing for sustainable growth energy at the right price while enhancing profitability outperformance Our decision in November 2016 to commit to a from the energy we generate.
With South West Water 252million ERF at Avonmouth, near Bristol, has anetuser of electricity, the Group has a natural expanded our future portfolio to 12 plants.
We expect energyhedging opportunity representing one third demand for ERFs to continue to exceed capacity into ofViridors energy generation.
We can now hedge 90% the long term.
ourmarket position for up to five years ahead, further Average ERF availability helping to protect revenues.
The Group is actively addressing opportunities arising from water industry deregulation.
Balanced risk-reward In preparation for the newnon-household retail water profile across the Group market, which commenced 1 April 2017, we set up Part of our strategy as we build our ERFs, and in our Pennon Water Services as a Pennon Group plc recycling operations, is to ensure there is a balanced subsidiary, ringfenced from South West Waters risk-reward profile that complements our water business, to provide retail services to business operations as closely as possible.
To achieve scale, Pennon Water Services formed a non-household retail venture with South As a long-term infrastructure provider, we manage Staffordshire Plc incorporating SouthStaffs and our risk profile by mitigating volatility through secure, Cambridge Water.
Pennon Water Services entered long-term cash flows.
We have made significant the market with the fourth largest customer base in progress over the past two years in reducing risk the deregulated market.
andunpredictability across the Group by overlaying our long-term assets with long-term Driving value through efficiency commercial arrangements, and supporting these South West Water maintained its strong momentum in with long-term financing.
controlling total expenditure Totex with cumulative savings of 129 million and financing outperformance At Viridor, for example, we have increased contracted of 67 million in the first two years of K6 2015-2020. volumes better aligning with the life cycle of our South West Water is targeting toremain at the assets.
By negotiating long-term 25-year index-linked forefront of cost efficiency for the water sector.
contracts with stated volumes and prices, Viridor is building a similar risk-reward profile to the water side During the year, we completed our Shared Services of the business.
Prior to committing to Avonmouth, Review to drive value through efficiency, synergy and approximately 80% ofour ERF portfolio volumes best practice.
Reflecting the more integrated nature andassociated prices were contracted long term.
of our Group, we are taking advantage of the expertise our combined water and waste businesses Striking an appropriate balance between operational have in terms of managing large asset bases, and in risk and reward is a key part of our strategy.
This engineering, technology and innovation.
The review applies to any aspect of the Groups operations resulted in a plan to centralise key corporate services developing our recycling business, our decision and operational functions, including the introduction tobuild the Avonmouth ERF, or our entry into the of a shared IT platform.
This will achieve estimated non-household retail market.
The starting point for savings of 17 million peryear from 2019, up from achieving the right risk-reward balance is to ensure the11 million per year that we announced last the Group fully understands the differences between yearof which c. 9 million per annum has been its water and waste operations.
This has given us secured to date.
astrong and effective framework for identifying risk.
Innovation and investmentin Plymouth South West Waters largest investment in its current five-year plan is the new 60 million state of the art Mayflower Water Treatment Works in North Plymouth.
Due for completion by March 2018, Mayflower uses the innovative treatment processes of suspended ion exchange, inline coagulation and ceramic membrane filtration.
This is the first time that this combined technology has been used in the UK.
Mayflower will provide a secure, highquality drinking water supply for the Plymouth area for generations to come.
23 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 We also ensure senior management are fully aware of Our people Review of the Chief how we are managing risk and how we can mitigate Across the Group we look to attract, develop and Executive Officer adverse impacts.
At the same time, we identify retaina highly skilled and customer-centric workforce.
appropriate business opportunities, especially as At the end of the year, Pennon had a workforce of continued ourstrategy is to invest for growth in both water around 5,000 people and we continue to be a andwaste over the longer term.
largeemployer in the south west of England.
Ourmulti-award winning apprenticeship programme, Sustainability is core to our business which started in2011, continues to go from strength Sustainability is core to the Group both in terms of tostrength.
This year South West Water recruited ensuring its long-term commercial viability and of its100th apprentice since the programme began.
operating in an environmentally and socially Viridor is actively committed to expanding responsible manner.
The Group has a long track thenumberof apprentices it employs.
record in partnership and innovation across a range New branding of sustainability issues.
Our operations are deeply The Group also contributes to local efforts to As we begin to work more closely as an embedded into local communities and we believe this developskills for the future, an example being integrated business, it is important that is one of the reasons Ofwat responded so positively South West Waters role as a leading partner in a the Pennon, SouthWestWater and to South West Waters latest business plan.
University Technical College for South Devon, which Viridor brands also work together places a unique focus on engineering, water and visually.
The new branding underlines Sustainability is carefully integrated into our strategic the environment.
our commitment to environmental thinking given the nature of our business as a provider infrastructure, unifying us as a group of key water and waste services and the close Our employees supported communities through but still reflecting the strengths ofeach relationship our operations have with environmental 359 days of volunteering during the year and both business.
Furthermore, we recognise that making South West Water and Viridor continue with a broad programme for roll-out of the new responsible and sustainable business decisions is community education programme.
Viridor has been branding for vehicles, sites and critical to achieving long-term investor confidence.
shortlisted for The UBS Award for Education as part uniforms was in progress by year end.
ofBusiness in the Communitys Responsible Business Our decision-making on capital investment integrates Awards 2017. many sustainability factors including social, community and environmental impacts.
We use a range of tools At executive level, the creation of the position of Group to ensure we make decisions that involve more than director of Human Resources is an important step in purely economic or financial criteria.
In the case of the Groups evolution.
The responsibilities of the role capital expenditure on our network infrastructure, include developing and implementing the Groups for example, an ideal solution is always one that people strategy and assessing how we evolve the combines not just the lowest cost base but also human resources model across the Group.
The success we achieved in 2016 17 owes much to There was clear evidence of the importance of ouremployees and I would like to thank all of them sustainability within the Group during the year.
for their hard work, loyalty and dedication.
In early 2017 Pennon completed its first Group Outlook submission to Business in the Communitys Corporate The Groups outlook is encouraging.
In our waste Responsibility Index and received a score of 90% business, our ERF portfolio is a significant investment athree-star rating.
Pennon is also included in the in the UKs environmental infrastructure and key to FTSE4Good Index.
In addition, we achieved a score Pennons growth agenda.
Construction of our ERFs of B Management for the annual CDP submission atDunbar and South London is progressing well formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project for Climate andconstruction on Avonmouth is now underway.
Change and Water, and we continue to take steps to InNovember 2016 we announced that we had taken effectively reduce our impacts.
positive action to terminate Interserve Construction Our gross greenhouse gas emissions increased by Limited as EPC contractor for our ERF in Glasgow 14%, primarily as a result of Viridors newly following their continued underperformance on the commissioned ERFs reaching full operating capacity.
Good progress has been made since this The ERFs burn waste that would otherwise have date in engaging sub-contractors and progressing gone to landfill.
This has the double benefit of construction which is expected to be complete extracting more of the energy embedded in the withina revised timetable agreed with our customer, waste and substituting energy generated from other, Glasgow City Council.
Once all facilities are fully operational, we Our environmental performance is an area of areconfident they will add to the already strong focus and further progress is needed in aspects contribution these assets are making to the Groups such as reducing the risk of pollutions and flooding.
We continue to work hard to In recognition of the shared importance of our create a balanced risk profile across our waste and environmental responsibilities across the Group, we recovery operations.
have created the new role of director of Environment and, in April 2017, appointed Ed Mitchell to the role.
Edbrings with him a wealth of experience, having spent eight years at the Environment Agency.
Prior to this Ed held senior positions at Thames Water and the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
24 Avonmouth ERF: investing for growth Viridor, with its joint venture partners, is already one of the largest independent power generators from waste.
When Avonmouth begins operation early in the next decade, it will place us in the leading position in UK energy recovery with 20% market share.
Avonmouth will serve around 3.5 million people in the West of England and supply the national grid with enough electricity to power over 30,000 homes.
The waste supply in the Avonmouth ERF catchment area substantially exceeds the plants own capacity as well as available capacity nearby.
Supporting contracts we already have, an additional volume of some 800,000 tonnes is available from local municipal, commercial and industrial sources.
Combustible waste market undercapacity in the west of England extends to 2030 and beyond, matching the UK trend.
Viridors market projections are supported by independent third party analysis.
The Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority Looking ahead, our strong operational and financial We remain well GMWDA has confirmed that it is seeking to exit and performance shows we are delivering on our strategy positioned to play re-negotiate the Greater Manchester Waste private and providing a firm foundation for further growth.
our part in the finance initiative PFI contract with Viridor Laing Our immediate priority is to optimise our current Greater Manchester.
The PFI contract, which was assets and operations so that we can continue development of entered into in 2009, was the UKs largest waste and fulfilling our strategic objectives.
In the longer term, future regulatory energy project.
Diversion of waste from landfill we believe there is additional opportunity for.
reform remains ahead of contractual commitments and we consolidation in wholesale water.
are keen to ensure this progress is able to continue.
Meanwhile, we have a clearly articulated core strategy Viridor and its joint venture partner John Laing have focusing on water and waste operations in the UK and been actively engaging with GMWDA as they we believe both business streams provide excellent consider their options.
There are provisions in the PFI opportunities.
With our sector-leading dividend policy, contract for compensation to be paid to Viridor and our growth profile and our strong balance sheet, John Laing on termination.
Pennon Group is well positioned to deliver further Our water business is well prepared for the future.
value to customers, communities and shareholders.
South West Water is fully engaged in Ofwats programme for future water and wastewater services regulation as the Group prepares for the PR19 five-year review of pricing and investment requirements.
We remain well positioned to play ourpart in the development of future regulatory Chris Loughlin reform and are working to ensure our voice is Chief Executive Officer heardin shaping the industrys future.
Pennon Group plc South West Water will publish its 25-year strategic plan during 2017 18, setting out our evolving strategic priorities and our path to continued strong operational performance.
We will make every effort to maintain a first-class, innovative and efficient service that is characterised by reliability, responsiveness andresilience.
At the same time, we will ensure our operations and investments enhance the communities we serve and that we continue our commitment to understanding the needs of vulnerable customers and offering appropriate support.
