12 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Chief Executives strategic review Building a converged communications leader Our focus on delivering an excellent customer experience has delivered further improvements in our overall commercial and financial performance during the year.
We aim to ensure that all of our customers The new company will maintain Ideas Review of the year experience reliable Connectivity, Always listing on the BSE NSE exchanges in India, Vodafones transformation into a leading enjoy excellent value, are Rewarded for their providing a public market valuation for this converged operator in our developed markets loyalty, and receive Easy access to support important asset.
made further progress this year, while longwhen they need it.
This CARE formula, lasting tailwinds from rising smartphone systematically introduced since 2015 across Improved commercial penetration and data services adoption drove all of our operations, is designed to provide our and financial results growth in our emerging markets.
This was customers with an excellent experience that Overall, the investments made both during supported by our strategic differentiators is unique to Vodafone.
We measure our progress and after Project Spring are paying off, Network Leadership, Customer eXperience regularly, using the Net Promoter Score NPS and I am pleased to report another year eXcellence, and outstanding people methodology.
I am very pleased that we have of improved commercial performance and together with improved cost efficiency.
further extended our advantage during the increased organic revenue and adjusted Overall, I am pleased to report that the past year.
We are now the leader or co-leader EBITDA growth for the Groups operations Groups commercial and financial performance in 19 out of 21 markets, with an average NPS has further improved, although on a reported in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
gap to the third placed player of 17 points.
basis this was masked by currency headwinds.
We remain Europes fastest growing broadband A year ago, we were a leader or co-leader in just operator, with 1.2 million broadband net additions 13 markets, with a gap of 14 points.
In the UK, Network Leadership: during the year, a healthy 1.1 million increase this is not yet the case: we have recovered building a Gigabit Vodafone in contract mobile customers, and a 0.7 million a leadership position in terms of network After the large investments made during increase in our converged fixed plus mobile performance and have significantly reduced Project Spring, this year our capital spending, customer base.
An improved overall customer customer complaints, but we still lag the measured as a percentage of our revenues, experience allowed us to introduce more-forcompetition in our overall customer perception.
returned to a sustainable mid-teens level.
more propositions, in which customers received We are confident that our recovery CARE plan Even so, we continued to record improved greater value for a higher monthly payment.
will improve the situation in the UK as well.
mobile network performance relative As a result, consumer contract ARPU stabilised to smaller competitors in almost all of our after many years of decline.
This performance gap is critical, champion of Digital India This good performance was reflected as by providing a differentiated experience in European service revenue growth of 0.6% vs.
The entrance of a new operator in India offering to our customers we can justify a price -0.6% last year.
All major markets grew during 4G services for free has created industry premium relative to discounters.
We now have the year, except the UK.
In AMAP, we enjoyed turbulence, leading us to take an impairment the leading or co-leading data network in 14 another year of strong growth in customers, charge of 3.7 billion net of tax.
We have out of the 21 markets in which independent usage and local currency revenues up 7.7% moved strategically to face the new context tests are available, and all 21 for voice.
in organic terms vs. 8.0% last year.
by proposing to merge Vodafone India with We aim to improve our customers experience Idea Cellular, the number 3 operator in India, A stronger overall organic service revenue even further with the introduction of Gigabit which will create a new market leader with performance translated into even faster organic LTE also sometimes described as 4G the scale to invest in Indias digital future, while adjusted EBITDA growth up 5.8% vs. 2.3% last in the coming years.
In addition, we will also capturing an estimated US$10 billion NPV year thanks to good progress on cost efficiency, upgrade our cable and fibre next-generation in synergies.
which Nick Read describes on page 16. networks which now pass 36 million We will jointly control the new combined None of these achievements would have homes, including the VodafoneZiggo JV in company in partnership with Ideas founding been possible without the talent and the Netherlands to provide gigabit speeds, shareholder, the Aditya Birla Group, a leading differentiating our services from those dedication of our people, supported by the Indian-based international conglomerate.
values of speed, simplicity and trust which We will own 45.1%, the Adityla Birla we call The Vodafone Way.
Group 26.0% and Ideas current minority Customer eXperience shareholders will own the remaining 28.9%.
eXcellence: our formula We have agreed a mechanism with the Aditya for differentiation Birla Group to equalise our shareholdings over Providing an outstanding customer experience time.
The transaction is subject to regulatory is critical if we are to capitalise fully on our Vittorio Colao approvals and is expected to complete during Chief Executive network advantage.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 13 Data Providing the best mobile data experience Context Smartphone penetration is growing rapidly, leading to increasing demand for mobile data.
63% of our customers have a smartphone in Europe, compared to 59% last year Data usage is increasingly driven by the demand for high-definition video, which requires fast download speeds for a great user experience.
Data traffic increased 65% during the year Users want to use data without worrying about unexpected costs whether using their mobiles at home or abroad More-for-more initiatives to drive usage and revenue Over the course of last year we introduced a series of more-for-more offers, What were aiming for which typically offer more data in return for a higher monthly fee.
As an example, Were encouraging more data usage in Germany, we recently launched new plans offering more data and a data rollover facility, providing customers with the ability to carry over their unused with our more-for-more initiatives that data allowance from the prior month.
In Vodacom, our innovative micro-bundling provide extra data-related benefits for strategy allows customers to purchase data in affordable hourly, daily or weekly a small increment to the monthly fee bundles.
These offers typically mean customers generate a lower revenue per unit of data, but stabilise or increase average revenue per user.
We want our customers to have the best data experience, so we now provide data download speeds of at least 3 Mbps We aim to provide a leading mobile data In developing markets, which typically lack the requirement for high-definition video experience in all of our markets, in order extensive fixed infrastructure, demand for for 92% of data sessions in Europe to capitalise on the huge demand for mobile internet access via mobile is a long-lasting We are encouraging our customers internet connectivity from both consumer and driver of data consumption and revenue to move to 4G, which provides data enterprise customers, and to differentiate our growth.
Data users continued to grow during speeds up to 10x faster than 3G and service from lower quality discount providers.
the year, by nine million to 153 million lower latency quick reaction time including India, although the launch of free During the financial year, demand for data for a better user experience.
We now services by Reliance Jio in India dragged on our continued to grow very strongly, with over have 75 million 4G customers, up from data customer growth during the second half.
2,700 petabytes of data carried across our 47 million a year ago Consequently, the largest driver of data growth mobile networks including India, JVs and was increased usage levels by data customers.
We want our customers to use data associates.
This was an absolute increase As in developed markets, new technologies wherever they want, so our 4G roaming in traffic this year of 995 petabytes, which drive higher usage: on average, a 2G customer network now reaches 118 countries was greater than the total traffic carried uses 0.2 GB per month: a 3G customer 0.9 GB: on the network last year.
Growth was driven We are preparing for 5G in the longer and a 4G customer 1.7 GB.
by continued adoption of 4G, with 28 million term by building more fibre connections customers added during the year bringing the During the coming financial year we will begin to carry more data total base to 75 million at the end of March.
trials of Gigabit LTE 4G services, which will This represented 33% of our active data deliver further significant gains in data speeds users.
With bigger touchscreens and faster along with lower latency quick reaction time.
speeds, the customer experience improves As the new technology will be based on the significantly particularly for video.
As a result, broad and deep 4G network built during 4G smartphones typically drive a two to three Project Spring, the incremental cost to achieve times increase in data usage compared to 3G.
these gains is expected to be relatively Group data traffic growth in 2017 modest.
We are preparing for 5G by building % Bigger bundle sizes also contributed to fibre connections to over 95% of urban sites usage growth, as we successfully introduced Europe 57 in Europe.
Additional 5G radio investments will more-for-more propositions typically AMAP 78 only be made once the technology is mature offering our customers larger data allowances and the business case is robust.
Group 65 for a higher monthly payment across most Figures exclude India and the Netherlands.
of our markets during the year.
The success of these initiatives was a key driver of our improved revenue growth momentum compared to the prior year.
224m of our customers use data including India, JVs and associates, 43% of the total base 14 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Chief Executives strategic review continued Convergence Combining fixed and mobile Context Customers increasingly want to use converged services i. e. bundle fixed and mobile services together under a single contract to easily share content between their mobile phone, tablet, laptop or TV Access to TV programmes bundled with fixed broadband is an increasingly important driver of demand for converged services The growing demand for converged services drives data usage, which in turn requires the combination of mobile and fibre infrastructure Vodafone Spain leading our transition to converged services To date, the fastest take up of converged services bundles of fixed, mobile or TV has been in Spain.
During the year, we added nearly 250,000 new converged customers What were aiming for taking us to 2.3 million in total.
We have made two important steps to drive demand during the year.
First, we added to the existing extensive range of TV content including We expect fixed revenue to grow football, Netflix, and over 120 TV channels, including launching HBO Spain.
Second, as a percentage of our revenues, driven we further expanded the number of homes passed with high-speed fibre to nearly by convergence, which should also 19 million, representing 65% of households, by both deploying more fibre and lead to higher customer loyalty and by securing new wholesale arrangements.
lowerchurn We aim to increase our revenue In developed markets, the trend towards Our progress this past year has been strong: marketshare profitably convergence the bundling of fixed and we remained Europes fastest growing in fixedcommunications mobile services within a single contract broadband company, winning 1.2 million continues to accelerate, aided by commercial new customers.
Our total broadband We seek to roll out more high-speed offers which typically provide either extra customer base, including VodafoneZiggo, broadband services by deploying more value, a financial discount or sometimes is now 17.9 million, of which 16.6 million are fibre and working with strategic partners.
both of these incentives to customers who in Europe.
Four million of these customers We already reach 96 million households buy multiple products.
Overall, we view this are fully converged, with a further two million in Europe, up from 72 million last year trend as a substantial growth opportunity taking both a fixed and mobile service from Were aiming to expand our for Vodafone.
We are an established leader Vodafone, but not yet benefiting from a single TV services, to complement the take in mobile and our recent investments have bill and or a cross-product discount.
We already have positioned us as the leading challenger in fixed, highly focused on converting these customers TV services in eight markets including with scope to gain significant profitable onto fully converged bundles.
Additionally, VodafoneZiggo revenue market share by cross-selling fixed in the Netherlands, just 25% of Ziggos fixed products to our mobile base.
Additionally, customers take a Vodafone mobile product churn rates for customers buying multiple a significant cross-selling opportunity for the products are substantially lower so our new joint venture.
success in winning fixed relationships is also Succeeding in convergence also means expected to make our mobile base both more providing a best-in-class TV experience.
secure and more profitable over time.
This past year we launched Vodafone TVand Our fixed network footprint continues Giga TV, which are best-in-class TV platforms.
to expand, and we are now able to reach We also started our journey towards Spain lowering churn over 96 million NGN homes in Europe, giving consolidating our TV platforms, capturing scale through convergence us the largest marketable reach of any efficiencies.
Including VodafoneZiggo, we now % of customers that leave us based on the operator.
36 million of these homes are have 14 million TV customers, of which eight number of products mobile, landline, broadband and TV they buy connected by our own cable or fibre networks million pay for advanced digital services.
including VodafoneZiggo in the Netherlands.
We aim to distribute premium content to these Mobile only 27 The remaining homes are mostly reached customers, but where possible we prefer Three products 13 through wholesale relationships with the local to avoid exclusive content deals as these Four products 6 incumbent operator.
We plan to upgrade our tend to drive up costs for the industry with own networks to deliver gigabit speeds over no lasting competitive benefit.
the coming years, which will further extend the competitive advantage we enjoy compared 24% to slower copper-based incumbents.
of our service revenue comes from fixed services Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 15 Enterprise Leading in total communications Context Seamlessly integrated connectivity has become a central part of running a business today Businesses are seeking secure and reliable mobile and fixed solutions to support efficient and effective operations The lines between mobile, fixed and IT are blurring driving new business opportunities, but also a more competitive market environment What were aiming for Providing network connected, global cloud services We are building a comprehensive total Enterprise customers are moving data and applications to the cloud to become smarter communications portfolio, rooted and more agile, reduce costs and optimise performance.
By combining our strengths in ourcore strength in mobility in fixed connectivity with our Cloud & Hosting portfolio, we are well placed to meet this demand and can provide simple, secure IT solutions.
During the year, we have expanded We want to maintain our strong mobile our geographic presence and our cloud services are now live in seven markets across market share in enterprise, which has Europe, Africa, Asia and the USA.
Combined with our network of partner facilities, we can been earned from our trusted brand, serve businesses on a global scale and offer a consistent cloud experience across 28countries.
During the year, revenue from Cloud & Hosting services grew 15%.
global footprint and service quality We aim to increase our market share Enterprise remains a key driver of our business, Third, we remain the market leader in the fastin fixed enterprise services, capitalising representing approximately 30% of revenues.
growing Internet of Things IoT segment, which on our Project Spring investments During the year our enterprise revenues holds huge future potential, with 54 million Our strategy is focused around three continued to grow, in contrast to leading devices connected on our IoT platform.
market segments small and medium European peers who experienced a decline In particular, our performance in the automotive sized enterprises, large and multinational in their business.
This outperformance segment remains strong, with BMW, Porsche corporates, and carrier services reflects four important differences in our and many others relying on our IoT solutions.
business composition and strategy compared We launched narrowband IoT in Spain, and have We intend to continue to invest to a typical incumbent operator position.
trials running in several countries.
With seven in the growth areas of converged times the coverage reach of existing GSM-based communications, Cloud & Hosting, First, we operate in more international markets services and very low power consumption Internet of Things, security and than all of our traditional telecom rivals, devices could last up to ten years with a single fixedconnectivity and as a result we have a cost advantage AAA battery, this technology is likely to catalyse compared to nationally based competitors a new wave of innovation and industry growth.
who are forced to wholesale at a higher cost in order to provide services outside their home Finally, the composition of our revenues market to multinational clients.
This advantage is different from many of our rivals.
We have very in terms of our global reach is reflected in the limited exposure to declining fixed voice calling, strong performance of Vodafone Global or segments such as the UK public-sector which Enterprise, which grew 3.0% in the year.
have been under pressure from government spending cuts: conversely, we enjoy strong Second, the trend towards convergence growth in our emerging markets operations, represents an important opportunity for for example with Vodacom achieving 12% profitable revenue market share gains in fixed enterprise growth during the year.
services for enterprise, where our market Enterprise service revenue growth share is only around 7%.
We have now built It is also important to recognise that there are % a global IP-VPN footprint which is on par with challenges ahead.
Our core European mobile 1 2015 0.0 the largest global competitors, reaching 272 revenues remain under pressure as a result of Points of Presence in 73 countries.
In addition, intense competition, so it is important that we 2016 1.7 we are developing a range of adjacent diversify into fixed and related services.
In addition, 2017 2.3 services such as Cloud & Hosting and security we have a number of legacy fixed contracts solutions, to further increase our share inherited from the Cable & Wireless acquisition Note: 1 As reported in 2015 including Vodafone India.
Our early success that are not sufficiently profitable, reflecting is reflected in growth of 4.4% in non-mobile a large number of costly legacy networks revenues during the year, which in total now and associated products.
These networks are 30% account for 29% of our total enterprise sales.
being phased out, and customers migrated to of our service revenue is from enterprise customers modernised solutions, over the coming years.
