Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairmans and Chief Executives report Target Target Results Portfolio yield Portfolio yield Quoted equities % % Private equity % % Caledonias net asset value per share total return International 25 2.5 Direct private NAVTR was 18.0% for the year ended 31 March 2017, compounders investments 30 5.0 following 2.6% for the previous year.
All four of the Income 11 4.5 Private equity investment pools produced double digit returns.
stocks funds 12 Investment income for the year was 47.3m, a fall Quoted funds 9 of 3.4m compared with the unusually high level of Total 45 42 the previous year.
Additionally, following a number One of the consequences of investing in larger private of portfolio realisations, in particular the successful sale equity investments is that, when sold, large capital sums of Park Holidays, the board is proposing a special dividend are returned on an irregular basis as demonstrated by of 100p per share to be paid alongside an increased final the 207m of cash on our balance sheet at the year end.
The latter would mark the 50th year of consecutive increases of our annual dividend.
Caledonias objective is to ensure that its annual We are both proud of this achievement and determined dividend payment is set at a level that is covered to extend the record for many years to come.
However we recognise that shareholders are rewarded with a relatively low annual yield, which Background to the year we address through the occasional payment of special The year under review was dominated by two important dividends when appropriate.
First, the vote by the United Kingdom to leave special dividend will have the effect of increasing the the European Union and second, the presidential yield averaged over the past five years from 2.9% to election in the United States of America.
These events 3.6%, and to 3.2% averaged from 1987, a period that were key drivers of both stock market and currency included several business cycles and special dividends movements across the world.
Caledonias strategy of paid to shareholders, as illustrated in the following chart.
owning a balanced investment portfolio of both UK and overseas based companies and funds proved to be Dividend yield averaged from 1987 a sound hedge against what turned out to be a period Yield without special dividends Yield with special dividends of considerable volatility.
Macro-economic factors, % particularly the devaluation of sterling against most 4.5 other currencies, produced a tail-wind for our portfolio, with currency gains contributing 6% of the 18% total 3.5 return for the year.
Private equity markets have also been buoyant, as demand for high quality businesses 2.5 from funds with huge available resources have driven prices to levels not seen since before the financial 1.5 crisis.
We took advantage of this by selling several of 1987 1997 2007 2017 our holdings, most notably Park Holidays, which netted 197m for Caledonia and gave us an overall return of Geographic exposure three times the capital invested in 2013.
Caledonia takes a global approach to investment, actively seeking exposure to markets that grow faster Caledonias strategy and business model and are less mature than the UK.
We access these We aim to grow our shareholders capital over the long in two ways.
First by investing in companies that term and to provide an increasing annual dividend, both themselves operate across the globe and second in real terms.
We are attracted to the higher returns by selecting funds that specialise in the regions and provided by equity investments and particularly in the sectors to which we wish to be exposed.
In particular, unlisted or private equity markets.
However, we are we gain access to the US and Asian private equity aware of the portfolio limitations and risks presented markets via specialist funds operating there.
These by only investing in private equity markets.
We therefore offer attractive returns, even after paying fees to the currently have half our net assets in listed companies, managers, and provide good diversification to the UK focusing on long term international compounding equities based majority owned businesses within our portfolio.
and income stocks, together with quoted market funds, which give us the balanced exposure that we seek in terms of geography, sectors and liquidity.
2 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: NEW P2.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Investment performance Geographic distribution The construction of the portfolio as described means that we do not seek to correlate our performance with United Kingdom 38% the market.
The board believes that it is better to Continental Europe 11% compare returns with inflation to measure our short North America 25% term performance.
Over short periods we use a target Asia 12% range of RPI 3% to RPI 6%, but over ten years it is Other countries 1% Cash and other 13% appropriate to benchmark our performance against the FTSE All-Share.
The table below shows a summary of performance Risk against RPI for periods up to ten years and against the Our approach to risk stems from an understanding that FTSE All-Share for ten years: shareholders capital is a precious commodity which 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years % % % % we are not required to grow at an unsustainable rate.
NAV total return 18.0 38.3 89.4 80.6 Instead, we aim to produce steady rates of capital Annualised return over the long term, underpinned by increasing NAV total return 18.0 11.4 13.6 6.1 annual receipts of dividend.
We therefore invest in Retail Prices Index 3.1 1.9 2.3 2.8 companies that have strong competitive positions Performance vs RPI 14.9 9.5 11.3 3.3 in their markets and can generate consistently high FTSE All-Share Total Return 5.7 margins, which in turn drive strong returns on capital Performance vs FTSE 0.4 over long time periods.
This capital is recycled into Currency their businesses further driving growth.
Valuations will The contribution of foreign currency gains to our overall fluctuate over time, but by being invested in companies return for the year was 6.0%, accounting for one-third that compound their earnings in this way and which are of our overall return.
We have intentionally positioned not at risk through excessive gearing, we are confident the portfolio to gain a balanced exposure to different that our returns over the long term will be at least as currencies and geographies.
In general, we do not think good as the market, but with less risk.
that it is wise to speculate as to the future movement We carefully review the composition of our portfolio of currencies, nor do we intend to reposition the portfolio to ensure that we are not overexposed to individual to lock in currency gains made this year.
We will continue sectors, geographies or currencies.
We also consider to maintain a balanced exposure to the worlds leading valuations, gearing and volatility as well as the continuing economic zones US, Asia and Europe and their health of the underlying businesses and their sectors currencies over the long term.
in assessing their place in the portfolio.
We tend not to be a frequent buyer or seller of shares and the turnover Income and expenses of shares within our portfolio is very low compared Investment income for the year was 47.3m, a fall with market funds.
of some 7% compared with the previous year.
The reduction for the year is principally accounted for by the unusually high level of dividends received from the Unquoted pool portfolio last year.
Underlying investment income remains in line with our expectations and we are confident our more recent acquisitions will compensate for the loss of income from the sale of Park Holidays.
Our ongoing charges ratio for the year was 1.07%, compared with 1.01% in 2016, reflecting slightly higher staff costs.
This includes the costs of a direct unquoted market investment team.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 3 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairmans and Chief Executives report continued As can be seen from the table above, all the investment Balance sheet and cash pools made good and broadly similar contributions to At the year end, our balance sheet was ungeared with a our overall return.
The table below compares actual with net cash position of 207m, compared with an opening pre-forex returns, that is returns assuming no exchange balance of 23m.
We are in the process of renewing our rate movements over the year.
In all cases bar the Funds banking facilities to ensure that they remain appropriate pool, pre-forex returns for the year exceeded target for a company with net assets of 1.9bn.
Despite the immature private equity portfolio used these facilities sparingly in the past, it is important and its exposure of over 90% to the US dollar, the Funds that we have the flexibility to cover larger transactions in pool still managed a creditable pre-forex 10% return.
the unquoted arena, the timing of which can be difficult to anticipate.
They also provide an excellent way to take PreActual forex Target advantage of market downturns and ensure we have return return return Pool % % % capital available for private equity fund drawdowns.
Quoted 20.6 13.1 10.0 Income 17.0 10.5 7.0 Review of portfolio Unquoted 20.8 18.6 14.0 The investment pools returned 20.7% for the year Funds 23.1 9.9 12.5 under review.
It was a year of net divestment, with 418m of sales excluding movements within the Asset allocation Income pool.
Alongside the 197m received from the The table below shows the strategic return and sale of Park Holidays, we received significant proceeds allocation targets for the investment pools: from the sales of Bowers & Wilkins, Close Brothers and Annual return targets Capital Today China, the Chinese private equity fund Target Current Income Capital Total allocation allocation that backed JD.
Excluding Pool % % % % % movements within the Income pool, we invested Quoted 2.5 7.5 10.0 25-40 24.6 Income 4.5 2.5 7.0 15-20 11.4 230m over the past year, including 74m in the Unquoted 5.0 9.0 14.0 35-45 29.9 Liberation Group, the Channel Islands and UK based Funds 12.5 12.5 15-20 21.3 pub and brewing company.
In addition, over 100m Liquidity 10 -10 12.8 was invested in our private equity and quoted market funds in Asia and the US.
The Funds pool was a net investor for the year.
Both Value InvestRealisGains Value the Quoted and Unquoted pools were net divestors, 2016 ments ations losses 2017 Income Return which at the year end drove our cash deposits to 11% m m m m m m % Pool of NAV.
As a consequence, both pools are at the lower Quoted 449.3 42.0 95.1 71.7 467.9 10.7 20.6 end or below their strategic allocation ranges.
We will deploy capital Total pools 1,598.1 245.0 433.0 245.8 1,655.9 40.9 20.7 into businesses which fit our strategy when they are Non-pool 11.1 2.1 0.4 19.9 32.7 6.4 1.0 available at acceptable valuation levels.
The Funds pool Investments 1,609.2 247.1 433.4 265.7 1,688.6 47.3 20.2 Cash etc 35.1 210.2 strategy includes a programme of commitments to Net assets 1,644.3 1,898.8 18.0 invest in private equity funds.
Gains and losses included the reclassification from Unquoted to Non-pool when the funds find suitable investments, though are of 26.7m relating to dividends received by a subsidiary investment entity.
reasonably predictable over the long run on a portfolio basis.
This programme is still relatively immature, such that we predict that we will be net investors for a further three to four years before returns of capital start to match new drawdowns.
4 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Overview of pool performance Income 216m, 11% of net assets A portfolio of global equities that produces a reliable Quoted 468m, 25% of net assets and increasing income stream.
We invest in high quality companies that have compounding business models and barriers to entry, The Income pool produced a creditable return of 17.0% and which make good use of capital.
Experience shows for the year, including a 4.8% dividend yield.
Despite that a concentrated and risk managed portfolio the increase in capital value which has led to a fall in containing this type of company will deliver better risk the market yield, we have increased the running yield adjusted returns than the market over the longer term.
on the portfolio to 4.8% from 4.2% in the previous year.
The portfolio consists of 22 companies and has The Quoted pool produced a return of 20.6% for the produced an annualised return of 7.9% over the past year.
Strong investment gains were made by nearly all two years and 9.6% since inception in 2011.
The Brexit of the 18 core holdings that make up the portfolio.
UK vote impacted a number of the portfolio companies engineers Spirax Sarco and Hill & Smith were that have businesses which operate solely in the UK, beneficiaries of the fall in sterling but also produced such as Royal Mail and Greene King.
These are well excellent underlying results, which were reflected in balanced however by US and European holdings.
strong share price performance over the year.
Hill & Smith has finally gained the recognition of the market Unquoted 568m, 30% of net assets for its consistent growth in earnings and high margins.
We invest in unlisted businesses which require capital The US holdings, such as Microsoft, Philip Morris, Becton and an investor with a balance sheet who is able to Dickinson and Flowserve, were notable performers, as provide a long term perspective.
We invest in both was Jardine Matheson, which operates predominantly majority and minority positions.
The Unquoted pool We sold our holdings in Close Brothers and performance of 20.8% LondonMetric Property, amongst others.
Close for the year comprised Brothers remains a high quality and well run bank but a capital return of 17.7% and an income return of 3.1%.
we believe that the valuation and point in the cycle The undoubted highlight was the sale of our 81.5% gave reasons for concern.
We first invested in Close stake in Park Holidays to Intermediate Capital Group.
Brothers in 1987 and it became an outstanding creator We received cash proceeds of 197m which, when of value for Caledonias shareholders, producing an IRR added to dividends received, represented 2.9x our over 30 years of 16.4%.
Bristow Group, the US original investment and an IRR of 44%.
This company helicopter operator, had another year of poor was a good fit with our investment criteria, was run by investment returns.
The oil and gas industry is currently a very capable team of experienced managers and was in a cyclical downturn and, despite the companys one that, in normal circumstances, we might have held search and rescue contracts, helicopter usage remains for considerably longer.
However, we judged that the low.
Two new holdings were instigated this year, but strong profits growth during the period of our valuations remain high so other targeted companies in ownership combined with high valuations for quality which we would like to invest continue to trade outside companies were compelling reasons to sell.
sold our holding in Bowers & Wilkins and a number of smaller legacy assets during the year.
Total sale proceeds and income received was 262m for the year.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 5 PDF Page: NEW P5.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairmans and Chief Executives report continued We made one new We reviewed well investment Liberation over 200 investment Group in July 2016.
We opportunities during the invested an initial 71m year, making two offers for a 97.9% equity stake with one new investment management own the and two follow-on investments.
There is a significant remainder, valuing the company at 118m in total.
amount of capital in the market chasing a small supply of Liberation Group is a pub, restaurant and drinks high quality deals, which has inevitably led to increased business with its roots in the Channel Islands.
We believe in buying the right business for the it purchased the Butcombe brewery together with a right price and try to use the competitive advantage over number of pubs in South West England.
It had 100 pubs private equity funds brought by investing our own in total on acquisition and the strategy is to expand the balance sheet and thereby not being constrained by number of pubs on the mainland from the Bath Bristol the period of time over which we can own a business, area to the south west along the axis of the A303.
which management teams often find appealing.
We were attracted to the combination of a solid asset Funds 404m, 21% of net assets backed business in which we can continue to invest We invest in both private equity and quoted market capital at a good rate of return in the future.
It is managed funds, with an emphasis on providing exposure to areas by an experienced team from the industry and they of the world where we are less willing to invest directly.
have hit the ground running, buying nine pubs since The Funds pool produced an excellent return for the our acquisition.
Quoted market funds, focused on Asia The existing Unquoted and the US, represented 42% of pool assets at the year pool portfolio has traded end.
We deployed capital into Asia when sentiment was broadly in line with very much against the region two years ago and the 31% budget during the year.
return this year has vindicated this decision.
It remains Of particular note is the performance of Seven one of the few areas of the world that is not fully valued.
Investment Management, which has increased assets The money is looked after by five different managers under management and profits ahead of budget, and across the two regions in a mixture of strategies.
Gala Bingo, which has traded in line with our The private equity portfolio continues to grow with expectations at the time of the acquisition 18 months 79m invested this year into a portfolio now valued at ago.
Cobepa produced a strong investment return for 235m.
We received 53m of distributions from private the year and, being euro denominated, we also saw a equity funds following portfolio sales, although half of currency uplift.
It is currently Caledonias largest this came from further sales of JD.
com by Capital Today holding, albeit diversified through a portfolio of 14 China.
We have total outstanding commitments of businesses.
Choice Care, the care 293m, about 80% of which we expect to be drawn homes operator, has almost down over the next seven or eight years depending on completed a carefully managed the nature of the cycle.
The programme is anchored by expansion plan, adding about a several fund of funds relationships, especially in Asia, third to its capacity.
We are very which has a nascent private equity market.
We believe aware of the danger of this to be a sensible risk mitigant, as well as a good way expanding too quickly and overstretching the capability to stay fully informed of, and close to, the market.
to deliver top quality care, which remains, above all else, the number one priority.
The pricing environment remains tough, with local authorities under great pressure to cut spending however, despite this, new bed spaces are being filled at acceptable margins.
Sterling Industries is starting to see some recovery in its core markets of iron and steel and oil and gas, but had a difficult year with profits down sharply.
6 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Close Brothers became the cornerstone of Caledonias Dividend investment success over the next 25 years and, combined The board is recommending to shareholders a final with his continuing advice, the company has continued dividend of 39.9p per share, giving a total for the year to thrive.
He joined the board of Caledonia in 2011 and of 54.8p per share, an increase of 4.2% over 2016. succeeded James Loudon as Chairman in 2012.
We This will be the 50th year of unbroken annual increases.
wish Rod the very best for a long, happy and peaceful The dividend is a vital component of our return to retirement.
David Stewart will succeed Rod as Chairman shareholders and, as explained earlier, the strategy at the AGM in July.
of the company is focused on its maintenance and gradual increase.
The proposed final dividend will Outlook amount to 29.1m.
The valuations of equities, bonds, property and nonThe board is also proposing to pay a special dividend conventional assets have been driven to high levels by of 100p per share alongside the final dividend, at an unusually low interest rates.
Markets look to be amount of 54.9m.
As explained earlier, the board reaching the final leg of a sustained bull run with considers it appropriate to augment the long term yield valuations now looking stretched.
The Federal Reserve offered to investors through the payment of occasional has increased US interest rates twice recently, taking special dividends when the companys long term the first tentative steps towards normalising monetary business model delivers cash in excess of its strategic policy in the worlds largest economy.
There are signs investment plans.
that the Bank of England is thinking along similar lines albeit with the additional complication of Brexit to Discount negotiate.
If monetary stimulus is removed and the Over the year, the share price rose by 20% and the cost of capital increases, there will be an equal and discount of the share price to NAV per share ranged opposite effect on valuations.
Despite this threat and between 13% and 26%.
We review the valuations of our events such as the Brexit vote in the UK, markets have unquoted holdings in September and March each year held firm probably in part due to the promises and announce the NAV per share figures shortly after Mr Trump made in his campaign to become President the relevant month end, which means that our discount of the US.
Caledonias modus operandi is not to attempt can fluctuate in the few days in between until the share to time market falls, but it guides our thinking in price adjusts to the updated NAV per share figures.
ensuring that our risk profile is appropriate for this We did not buy back any shares during the year, but will stage in the cycle.
again seek the necessary permissions from shareholders We continue to be invested in companies that will at the AGM to do so should they offer particular value.
generate reliable cash flows in all market circumstances.
Our long term outlook also makes us wary of excessive Board debt, which can be the downfall of a good business in Rod Kent, who has been a member of the board since a downturn of the economic cycle.
We currently have 2011 and Chairman since 2012, has decided to step a cushion of cash on the balance sheet which confirms down at the AGM.
The company, shareholders and past our conservative stance, but is also there to take management of Caledonia owe him an unrepayable advantage of opportunities that we identify.
We debt of gratitude for his outstanding contribution over remain confident that we will be able to meet our many, many years.
shareholders requirements for capital growth and Rod first came into contact with Caledonia in the early income in the future, without needing to expose their 1980s when British & Commonwealth B&C was its capital to undue risk.
He advised the company on its exit from B&C in 1987 and ensured that the proceeds from Rod Kent Will Wyatt the sale were received in a form that was as good as Chairman Chief Executive cash.
This proved prescient when B&C sadly went into administration in 1990 following the disastrous The Chairmans and Chief Executives report on pages purchase of Atlantic Computers.
2 to 7 and additional reports on pages 8 to 33 comprise the Strategic report of the company.
The Strategic Caledonia had become a significant investor in Close report was approved by the board on 25 May 2017 Brothers, where Rod was managing director, in 1987 and signed by Mr Wyatt on its behalf.
and increased its stake further over the next few years.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 7 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
