CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW Focused strategy delivering growing cash profits Our convenienceled, communityfocused retail & leisure portfolio has proved wellpositioned in what has been an uncertain twelve months at the macro economic and political levels.
This has been another outstanding year for NewRiver, which is reflected in a strong set of full year results.
These results also demonstrate that our focused business model, which we have strictly adhered to since our IPO, is clearly working well.
Our convenienceled, communityfocused retail and leisure portfolio has proved wellpositioned and wellplaced in what has been an uncertain twelve months at the macro economic and political levels.
As a business, we have maintained our disciplined approach to stock selection, remained active asset managers, progressed our riskcontrolled development pipeline and recycled capital profitably, all of which has allowed us to continue David Lockhart to deliver growing and sustainable cash profits to Chief Executive Officer our shareholders.
Our Funds From Operations FFO of 58.2 million were up 24% compared to the same period last Our Executive Committee year due to acquisitions made in the last 12 months as well as our highly active asset management programme.
The Board recently approved a final quarterly dividend of 5.0 pence per share, resulting in a fully covered ordinary dividend for the year of 20.0 pence per share, up over 8% compared to last year.
We are delighted to announce an additional 3.0 pence per share special dividend linked to our acquisition in Sheffield, taking the total dividend for the year to 23.0 pence per share, an increase of 24%.
This special dividend demonstrates our commitment to continue to distribute growing cash returns to our shareholders.
Looking ahead, the Mark Davies Allan Lockhart increase in our Q1 FY18 dividend to 5.25 pence per Chief Financial Officer Property Director share, an increase of 5% on Q1 FY17, reflects our confidence in the security and sustainability of our cash flows.
Our assets under management now stand at 1.3 billion, 1.1 billion at NewRivers share, with our EPRA net asset value per share down marginally by 3 pence to 292 pence reflecting the absorption of acquisition costs and Main Market move costs as well as a small 0.6% reduction in portfolio valuation.
Importantly, this reduction came in the first half of our financial year, when real estate values were Nick Sewell Executive Committee member 14 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT impacted by Brexit fears, and our valuations showed and capital growth by improving the occupier lineup improvement in the second half.
Our IFRS net assets and have agreed heads of terms with a fashion have decreased by 0.8%, due principally to the homeware occupier to introduce a 20,000 sq ft full same factors.
line store subject to obtaining planning consent which is anticipated in the next few months.
During the year, we completed acquisitions totalling 158 million at an equivalent yield of 7.2%.
In In September 2016, we moved quickly to acquire April 2016 we completed our largest acquisition a retail warehouse in Sheffield from an openended to date, buying the Broadway Shopping Centre property fund for 18 million.
As we completed and Broadway Square Retail Park in Bexleyheath, the acquisition, we exchanged contracts with the South East London, for 120 million at a blended occupier to accept a surrender premium of up to equivalent yield of 7.0%.
We have been active in the 12.25 million by May 2017, meaning that in essence year since acquisition, improving rental tone in the we acquired a 110,000 sq ft prominently located shopping centre by 15% and working in partnership retail warehouse on an 11 acre site for a net price with the London Borough of Bexley to design of 6 million.
In March 2017, having moved into a masterplan for the shopping centre, retail park advanced negotiations with a number of potential and surrounding council owned land.
In April 2017, occupiers and purchasers, we requested and following a comprehensive fit out, London based received the surrender premium, having received Morleys Department Stores opened at the centre in rent in the interim, the majority of which we are the 40,000 sq ft unit formerly occupied by BHS.
The paying to our shareholders as a 3.0 pence per share opening of this new store has been a real success special dividend.
Pleasingly, the asset has been for Morleys, and we have benefitted from increased independently valued at 50% more than our net footfall across the rest of the shopping centre.
We completed the acquisition of Cuckoo Bridge Across our retail portfolio we continued our track Retail Park in Dumfries in June 2016 in an offmarket record of strong and improving operational metrics, transaction for 20 million.
At the time of acquisition, with the increase in occupancy from 96% in March we identified several opportunities to drive income 2016 to 97% in March 2017 reflecting the compelling nature of our convenienceled, communityfocused portfolio to occupiers.
Our highly active approach Significant milestones in 2017 to asset management resulted in the completion of more than 300 new lettings and renewals, with long term deals completed on terms 3.9% ahead of ERV.
Importantly our rents remain affordable for our occupiers, at 12.45 per sq ft on average.
The April 2016 June 2016 Aug 2016 Sept 2016 combination of our high occupancy and affordable average rents indicates to us that retailers are trading profitably at our assets, underpinning the Acquired the sustainability of our income.
This affordability will Broadway Shopping Acquired Retail Acquired Cuckoo Centre and the Warehouse in be further supported by this years business rates Completed move Bridge Retail Park, Broadway Square Sheffield from open to Main Market revaluation, with draft rateable values across our Dumfries Retail Park, ended fund from AIM 20m retail portfolio in England, Scotland and Wales falling Bexleyheath 18m by over 19% on average.
Our pub operators will also 120m benefit from the rates revaluation, saving on average 40% on business rates from 1 April 2017.
During the year, we successfully applied our active asset management approach to our pub portfolio.
Atthe time of the Trent portfolio acquisition, we signed a four year leaseback agreement with Successfully Received 10.8m Completed sale Marstons Plc which ends later this year.
qualified for the surrender premium of first Cstore FTSE 250 and on Retail Warehouse 4.85% yield EPRA indices in Sheffield Dec 2016 Mar 2017 Mar 2017 Rents received in interim of 0.7m, total receipt 11.5m NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED Of the 189 pubs held in the Trent portfolio, we have We believe that with our convenience and now successfully transferred the management of community specialism, strong operational 44 pubs from Marstons, and during the year we secured contracted income on a further 22 pubs metrics, affordable rents and conservative by surrendering the leaseback arrangement early balance sheet we are wellpositioned to and agreeing new 15 year RPI linked leases with continue to deliver secure and sustainable Marstons.
The remaining pubs will be transferred in small batches over the remainder of the calendar cash returns to our shareholders and year.
We have continued to make selective and welook forward to the coming year profitable disposals from our pub portfolio, selling withconfidence.
seven pubs for 4 million in the year representing a 10% premium to March 2016 valuation and over a 30% premium to purchase price.
The convenience store programme within our pub We have made good progress on our 1.9 million sq ft portfolio continued to progress, and we handed riskcontrolled development pipeline during the year.
over a further eight cstores to the Cooperative At our 465,000 sq ft consented regeneration project in the period taking the total number completed in Burgess Hill, we have prelet 49% of the retail to date to 11.
In early 2017 we completed our first and leisure element, up from 41% just six months cstore disposal for 970,000, representing an initial ago, with leases now signed with Next and Nandos.
yield of 4.85%, and over 11% ahead of valuation.
We On the residential element of the scheme, we have are on site for the construction of a further three agreed terms with a residential investment company cstores totalling 11,000 sq ft and we have consent for a significant presale.
In order to facilitate the toconstruct a further 15 totalling 53,400 sq ft. development, we recently agreed terms with Lidl Our LTV was 37% at 31 March 2017, up from 27% at and Iceland to surrender and relocate to sites March 2016 predominantly due to the acquisition adjacent to the shopping centre, as well as agreeing of our assets in Bexleyheath which completed in to relocate the local council owned library.
Our interest cover remained robust at progress means that we hope to be in a position to 4.5x and our weighted average cost of debt was start on site later in the summer.
Elsewhere in our riskcontrolled development We completed our move from AIM to a Premium pipeline, in November 2016 we received planning Listing on the Main Market in August 2016 marking consent at Canvey Island for a 62,000 sq ft retail a significant milestone for NewRiver and we park which is already 52% prelet.
In the same continued this impressive momentum into month we also submitted the planning application December, when we qualified for admission for our exciting 236,000 sq ft mixeduse into the FTSE 250, FTSE AllShare and EPRA regeneration in Cowley, Oxford.
Our current indices at the first attempt.
development commitment is modest, with We have a fantastic, talented and enthusiastic team 26,000 sq ft under construction all of which is at NewRiver and I would like to thank them all for prelet.
Our riskcontrolled approach to development their hard work and significant contribution to this means we will not commit to further developments years results.
16 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Outlook We believe that with our convenience and community focus, strong operational metrics, affordable rents and conservative balance sheet we are wellpositioned to continue to grow and deliver secure and sustainable cash returns to our shareholders.
In the context of the slowdown in the investment market since the EU Referendum we are pleased to have bided our time and believe that current market conditions and the pricing for typical assets which NewRiver wishes to acquire are beginning to provide opportunities for the Company.
We have never relied on the market to drive returns for our shareholders, instead we have ourselves created value by applying our proven business model, and focusing on the convenienceled, communityfocused retail and leisure sectors where the UK household budget is spent day in, day out.
We remind ourselves that the business was founded in 2009 during a severe recession and has grown into a FTSE 250 entity in less than eight years.
NewRiver is highly capable of enhancing shareholder value through its very active asset management programme and our strict adherence to riskcontrolled development practices.
Our business model remains highly scalable and we view the future with excitement and confidence.
David Lockhart Chief Executive 15 May 2017 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17
