Strategic Report Introduction Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officers Letter 2016 17 was a foundational year for Burberry, in an environment that remained challenging for luxury although with sector dynamics improving in the second half.
Against this backdrop, we continued to elevate our luxury retail and digital business, and began implementing wide-ranging changes for the future.
Alongside this more moderate growth outlook, we anticipate the industry will be shaped by different dynamics in the years ahead.
Our customer is evolving rapidly, prioritising more distinctive experiences, more personal relationships with brands and greater product innovation.
The influence of digital technology is extending still further across every aspect of what we do from production techniques to the customer experience, in every channel.
And demographic changes, from the maturing of millennials to the intensification of wealth in cities, mean we must keep developing and tailoring how we think and work to stay ahead.
Against this backdrop, we continued last year to take actions to elevate our luxury retail and digital business, Christopher Bailey strengthen our brand and reposition Burberry for growth, Chief Creative andChief Executive Officer as we maintained our focus on maximising long-term shareholder value.
In addition to our ongoing actions in With recent estimates suggesting a broadly flat wholesale and licensing, this included our announcement performance in calendar 2016, the subdued result from last May of a multi-year programme to accelerate our the sector as a whole reflected fundamental shifts that productivity and efficiency agenda, having identified have been shaping the industry over the past few years, significant opportunities across our existing channels, including slowing Chinese consumption, reduced scope products and regions, and our ways of working.
We for space expansion and less pricing flexibility.
The impact touched on these in our last report, and have since of these trends was exacerbated during the early part of distilled them into comprehensive plans covering five the year by macro factors such as sluggish developed and key areas: Product Focus: Productive Space: E-commerce developing economies, and consumer unease and travel Leadership: Operational Excellence and Inspired People, disruption linked to geopolitical events.
the detail of which I will turn to shortly.
However, we also began to see clear signs of recovery in To deliver on this ambitious programme we have also the industry towards the end of the year, as the Chinese strengthened our executive leadership team with the consumer rallied, Continental Europe improved and the extensive luxury experience of Marco Gobbetti, who will UK continued to enjoy strong tourism with the sustained take on the role of Chief Executive Officer in July 2017, weakness of sterling following the Brexit vote.
These and the transformation expertise of Julie Brown, our new contributed to an improved sector performance in calendar Chief Operating and Financial Officer.
And we have made Q4, following nearly two years in flat or negative territory.
further appointments over recent months to complement Our own performance was consistent with these and enhance the existing skills of our senior team, including broader trends.
in key areas such as design, merchandising, technology and brand experience.
While these more encouraging signs have continued into the start of 2017, some challenges remain not As such, the scope and scale of the changes we are least for us given the uneven performance of the US making to our business are significant, and it will take and Hong Kong markets, both key for Burberry.
As such, time to realise their full benefits, particularly in respect the outlook for the sector is mixed, with industry experts of revenue growth.
But our progress with laying the continuing to anticipate more tempered growth in the foundations for the future is encouraging.
medium term, compared with the historic highs of the post-financial crisis years.
12 Strategic Report Introduction Performance summary Product Focus Before turning to our renewed productivity and efficiency The first pillar in this programme is to move from product agenda, let me first summarise our performance breadth to product focus.
This will allow the customer for 2016 17. to connect more readily with the creativity, craft and storytelling that define and differentiate our offer.
With Revenue was 2.8bn for the year, down 2% underlying, significant scope to simplify our assortments, amplify the with retail outperforming at up 3% overall and up excitement in our products across price points and tailor 1% on a comparable store sales basis.
A notably our offer more effectively to the needs of the customer strong performance in EMEIA, driven by the UK, and an in different locations, we began to make changes in the acceleration in mainland China were offset by continued year to unlock this opportunity.
challenging conditions in other markets including the US and Hong Kong, as well by the impact of our ongoing Building a more strategic approach to drive outperformance actions to build and reinforce our luxury brand positioning in our core categories has been a central focus, with for the future.
This included the loss of licensing income as comprehensive plans now developed for the product areas we build our direct operations in Japan, the rationalisation we have identified as having the greatest growth potential of wholesale distribution globally, including in Beauty, for the coming years.
The first area in which we have begun and actions to protect the brand in a highly promotional to implement this new approach is bags, with full price environment in the US.
In line with our evolved strategy for the category, this was driven both by new launches such With adjusted profit before tax down 21% underlying to as the Bridle and Buckle bags, as well as increasing novelty 462m, these factors weighed on the bottom line although in our more established styles.
While we are still at the their impact was partially offset by the delivery of 20m of early stages of our plans for bags, this strong initial uplift planned cost efficiencies in the year, and our plans are on is illustrative of the benefits we expect to build across other track for at least 100m by 2018 19. areas over time, with a pipeline of categories to follow.
We ended the year with a strong net cash position, up The second key area of progress is how we are evolving 149m to 809m, and we increased the full year dividend our merchandising approach, with particular emphasis to 38.9p, up 5%.
In April we completed 100m of a 150m on cultivating the local customer a key opportunity for announced share buyback.
A further share buyback of us.
Our move to one Burberry label globally, together with 300m is to be completed in 2017 18, in addition to the reducing our assortments by 15 to 20% over the year, have 50m already announced.
This reflects the Boards been fundamental steps in creating the conditions to realise confidence in the growth prospects for the business and this opportunity.
Then, within this significantly simplified its ongoing commitment to maintaining a strong balance assortment, we have implemented new tools and ways sheet with solid investment grade metrics.
of working that mean we are more effectively tailoring our assortments to the individual needs of stores in different While we actively managed the business through locations from climate, to customer profile.
Finally, this near-term market dynamics during the year, we also more streamlined approach is also allowing us to give continued to take actions to position it more strongly far greater visibility to the fashion and newness that is for the long term.
As noted above, this included starting so critical to building loyalty and repeat custom.
This to implement a wide-ranging productivity and efficiency was reflected in the outperformance of fashion during programme to enhance future growth.
While we are still the year, including the growth of our runway collections early in this process, progress across its five areas of and the successful introduction of our new, lightweight focus underpinned a number of improvements through tropical gabardine.
the year from the outperformance of fashion and strong growth in leather goods, to improved mainline retail conversion and customer retention, to the delivery of enhanced efficiencies.
These initial results give us real confidence for the future.
13 Strategic Report Introduction All this is being enabled by changes to how we work brand and products through appointments, events and across our product functions, to improve collaboration experiences.
This richer, more personalised approach and focus from design to delivery.
Part of this has been drove a significant uplift in repeat business in the year.
structural, with the evolution of our organisational model Finally, within operations, investments in areas including towards an end-to-end category management approach, point of sale systems and new staff scheduling tools drove meaning we are building cross-functional teams specific improvements as we seek to standardise and simplify to the potential of each category, with shared accountability our processes globally.
A standout area of progress here and KPIs.
And we are reinforcing these structural changes was our omni-channel programme, which has significantly by redesigning our processes as needed, for example increased the amount of product available to our online getting local input earlier in the cycle.
This is a significant customers by enabling us to fulfil e-commerce orders evolution for us and although the changes will take time from store stock.
to embed, we are already seeing early benefits across our business.
Alongside this initial emphasis on our retail business we are sharpening our focus on how we inspire customers more The final area I would highlight in respect of product is the consistently across channels, not least working closely with announcement we made just after the year end of a new our wholesale partners to create a stronger, more carefully partnership with Coty, to accelerate the growth of Beauty.
With scope to accelerate Consistent with our drive for greater focus across our this activity to drive still-greater coherence and support product offer, this follows the successful repositioning and brand perception, this is important work for the future.
elevation of the business over four years of direct operation.
Looking ahead, we will continue to lead all creative aspects E-commerce Leadership of Beauty, while benefiting from Cotys first-class industry Through early investment and focus, we have established expertise and distribution.
We will transition to this new a leading position in digital in our industry, with more model in October 2017 and expect the deal to be earnings than 48 million followers on social media worldwide accretive from 2018 19. and a Genius ranking from the influential think-tank L2.
We aim to consolidate this leadership position over the Productive Space coming years, while deploying it more assertively to drive Our second pillar is to move from new space to productive online sales on our own website, and through third parties.
Following a decade of geographic expansion, our From enabling seamless customer journeys across digital focus in this next phase is shifting to how we make all our platforms, to using technology to service our customers space more productive retail and wholesale, online and in stores, and critically linking these online and offline offline, and with an emphasis on our full-price channels.
worlds, we are well-placed to extend our leadership in We have significant opportunity here.
The foundation of our activity over the past year has The evolution of Burberry.
com was a key focus during been our Retail Excellence programme, covering all the year.
The relaunch of the global site on mobile and aspects of our retail operations, including how we serve desktop offered customers a richer brand experience at our customers, approach customer cultivation and manage the same time as better functionality, improving conversion our stores.
Results this year show good early traction.
on both platforms and driving mobile to nearly 60% of our online traffic.
Meanwhile, the redesign of our China site to Within service, we increased our investment in training tailor it more effectively to local preferences and behaviours and introduced a new service model CLIENT, and drove increases of around 70% in direct-to-consumer we are currently embedding a new global customer sales, while giving valuable insights for our overall site feedback programme based on net promoter scores.
Finally, we soft-launched These actions helped drive improvements in conversion our new customer app towards the end of the year, ahead and retention globally with room for continued growth.
of a global rollout early in 2017 18.
This will offer a more Within cultivation, we accelerated the expansion of our personalised shopping experience for our customers, Customer Value Management programme and Private both online and by linking them more effectively to our Client teams to bring more customers closer to our stores and sales associates globally.
14 Strategic Report Introduction This emphasis on facilitating experiences across the We also made further improvements to our inventory physical and digital worlds has long been a focus for management process as we seek to provide our customers Burberry, because it reflects how our customers live with a great experience, wherever and however they are today.
And we have never been more excited about the shopping with us.
Actions during the year included the opportunities that technology offers in this space, nor expansion of our single pool of inventory programme, more convinced it must be central to how we evolve our which allows us to fulfil customer orders from stock in offer.
Whether partnering with leaders in social media to both hubs and stores: quicker delivery times and enhanced bring our physical moments to life for online audiences, delivery information for online purchases: and a new, or enabling purchases straight from the runway for next facilitated returns process.
day delivery globally, we see great future potential here.
Finally, the further development of our technology Finally, we saw particularly strong growth in sales through infrastructure is underpinning many of these early third parties over the year, as we enhanced our focus on advances and will be central to delivering on our broader developing our relationships in this space.
For example, commitments across all of our strategic priorities over we collaborated with established offline partners including time.
With work well progressed for new digital tools Harrods in London, Shinsegae in Korea and Barneys in the that will improve how we operate in areas from planning, US to develop unique products and experiences for their to supply chain, to enhancing customer service in stores, websites: we deepened our relationships with pure play we have an ambitious plan in place to initiate further online retailers such as My Theresa and Moda Operandi changes to our systems over the coming year.
This will through elevated digital experiences for our runway shows prioritise business continuity, security and the rollout of and collections: and we continued to innovate in the area a common, standardised technology platform globally, of social commerce, including making exclusive products to facilitate efficiency business-wide.
available for purchase via WeChat.
These kinds of partnerships will form an important part of realising Inspired People our future e-commerce ambitions and we have exciting These changes to our systems and processes will be plans ahead.
complemented by an evolution of our overall ways of working, which form a critical part of our final pillar, Inspired Operational Excellence People.
Our focus here is to ensure we have the right skills Our fourth pillar, Operational Excellence, is focused on and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives, that we driving efficiency and investing appropriately to support build an organisation that is the right shape and size for our wider growth plans.
We have real headroom in this the future, and that our teams are motivated and inspired.
area, with particular scope to simplify our processes, We consider this work fundamental to the successful procure more effectively, optimise our inventory delivery of our overall productivity and efficiency ambitions, management and improve information and technology.
and are putting commensurate energy and care into its execution as we manage our organisation through Turning first to processes, following a detailed review of a period of significant change.
opportunities to standardise activities across our shared services we moved towards a simpler, single global way An important early step has been detailed work to of working during the year, which drove good initial results.
consider how we might evolve our operating model.
We intend to accelerate these in 2017 18 with the planned This has focused on how our structure could better establishment of Burberry Business Services in Leeds, support our aims of driving greater global consistency a new centre of excellence in which we intend to bring while better meeting the needs of our local customers, together our UK and EMEIA shared services teams from as well as simplifying our broader ways of working.
Commercial Procurement, Finance and HR, as well as We are currently concluding this work as we design some customer service and IT roles.
our organisation for the future, and changes are already underway.
In procurement, we have begun to make changes that will enable us to realise significant financial benefits over time, including through the implementation of a new technology solution to streamline how we manage our non-stock purchases and using customer insight data to target our marketing spend more effectively.
15 Strategic Report Introduction In tandem with changes to how we are structured Looking ahead and how we work, we have also renewed our focus on And so, to close, a final few words about the future.
culture through a more vibrant engagement programme, designed to reignite our values of Protect, Explore and This will be my last letter to you as Chief Creative and Inspire and our distinctive pioneering spirit.
From initiatives Chief Executive Officer of Burberry, with Marco assuming designed to immerse every employee in the creativity the role of Chief Executive Officer in July.
In many ways, and craft behind our products, to new forums that bring I see one of the highlights of my term as Chief Executive together our global teams around shared priorities, we Officer as the recruitment of Marco to be a partner for me, continue to explore new ways to inspire and connect our and a great leader for this Company.
This has been further reinforced by an increased the new role of President and Chief Creative Officer, this emphasis on fostering talent at all levels in the Company, evolved structure will allow me to redouble my focus on with highlights in the year including the graduation of our design for this next phase, and on making products and first cohort of Burberry Apprentices and enhanced training telling stories that inspire our customers.
This is the and development opportunities.
essence of who we are, and what we do and my passion for making Burberry the most compelling brand, selling the The final area I would highlight under Inspired People is our most beautiful and finely crafted products, in the most wider commitment to the places and communities where innovative ways has never been stronger.
This is a fundamental part of our culture as an organisation, and our focus on this area in recent Over the past three years I have worked with our years has seen us make a real impact, from the reductions leadership team to put Burberry on what we believe in the environmental impact of our operations that saw us is the right track for the coming years, through a period named last year as a Textiles, Apparel and Luxury Goods of real challenge and change for our business and the industry leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for industry as a whole.
And, with a clear plan now in place, the first time, to the real difference we have made to the I will remain fully engaged with the implementation of lives of thousands of disadvantaged young people around this plan in my new role as I partner with Marco and our the world through the work of the Burberry Foundation.
evolved senior leadership team to drive the Companys future strategic direction.
Encouraged by this progress and with the appetite to do much more, we finalised plans during the year to bring So it is with huge optimism that I look forward to the together our sustainability work, philanthropic giving and next chapter for this brand of which I am so proud.
volunteering under a new and more ambitious Burberry Responsibility strategy.
This is designed to address the Over the past 161 years, Burberry has never stood still.
most material social and environmental challenges in and In the past 15 years alone, this is a Company that has around our operational footprint and will focus on three transformed from a predominantly licensed business, areas: positively impacting the communities that sustain to a wholesale business, to our focus today on creating our industry: creating positive change through all our a leading luxury retail and digital business for this next products: and achieving carbon neutrality and revaluing phase.
Which means we have shown our ability to change waste.
Each of these will have a set of challenging, and adapt in the past and we are now positioned to public-facing goals and a flagship programme to be do so again for the future.
delivered hand-in-hand with expert partners.
We look forward to announcing the detail of this programme soon.
With so much opportunity identified across our business and a detailed programme in place to unlock it, we know Clear objectives, timelines and success measures this will be challenging work and it will take time.
But we are now in place for each of these five strategies, and are also confident of its rewards.
With the right team and their delivery is being overseen by a newly established ways of working in place, we are ready.
Transformation Management Office, reporting to our Chief Operating and Financial Officer.
16 17 Strategic Report Strategic Report Burberry group overview Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British heritage of design, innovation and craftsmanship.
The following pages set out brand highlights, the Companys business and operating models, information relating to its sales channels, regional presence, products, its key performance indicators and the external markets in which it operates.
