Strategic report GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Were proud of where weve come from and proud of where were going.
Inacombination that is unparalleled intheindustry, NEX will continue to build platforms and services that enable our clients to execute efficiently throughout the transaction lifecycle.
6 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions A defining transaction Becoming NEX For more than 15 years our strategy has been based During the last quarter of the financial year we turned on continually investing in the development of financial our focus to the future with a spirit and perspective technology for the trading community.
During the course thatconfirms the decision to change our Company.
of last year we took our most significant step to date Our culture is one of our great strengths.
Only the right with the founding of NEX.
The sale of our voice broking characteristics can propel a company into the vanguard business to TP ICAP, which closed on 30 December of its industry, and we have a long-standing culture of 2016, enabled NEX to become a focused financial anticipating the needs of the markets and of our clients.
These are the foundations from which we will invest in Our marketplace is in flux.
The ever evolving global the long-term growth and success of our business.
regulatory environment has caused our traditional Our rebranding from ICAP to NEX was an exercise carried clientbase the sell-side to change their strategies out with our customary attention to detail, speedand and business models as they seek to adapt.
During the last weeks of 2016 we other market participants rely even more on technology rebranded our offices around the world with no to support their business and their management of disruption to our business, and we successfully launched regulatory requirements.
An increasing focus on a new global intranet and multiple external websites electronic marketsand pre and post trade services has across the Group.
This was accompanied by the largest For strategic priorities created exciting opportunities for NEX and enables the external advertising campaign we have undertaken.
I am see pages 12-13 expansion of ourproduct and service portfolio.
confident that NEX is now firmly anchored in the minds of our employees, clients andpartners.
THE SALE OF OUR VOICE BROKING BUSINESS ENABLED NEX TO BECOME A FOCUSED FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS Number of employees 4,500 1,900 Number of offices 70 18 Number of regulated subsidiaries 39 8 Yes No Consolidated regulatory supervision UK FCA Local regulated entity oversight only Consolidated regulatory 500 million Nil capital required absent the waiver 50 million Entity level regulatory In excess of 250 million 110 million cash required for capital required regulatory liquidity purposes NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 7 Strategic report GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED In February, Per Sjberg, CEO of TriOptima, decided Our move towards the consolidated infrastructure toleave the business to pursue other ventures.
I would andinterface of NEX Infinity with its unified sales and like to record here my thanks to him for all his support environment that caters for both selland contributions since he founded the business in 2000. buy-side as well as major corporates will provide us withenormous opportunities.
Ready for the future As part of this consolidation process we are aligning our NEX is in a position to change our industry.
We have structure with that of our clients, allowing them a clear, aportfolio of services that no one else can offer, and NEX business-agnostic view of our full suite of products which gives us the ability to build our reputation and and services.
brand as the worlds leading electronic platform for OTC transactions and post trade services to all parties.
We are already expanding beyond our traditional T he transformation of the Group sell-side client base of banks and professional trading firms to embrace hedge funds, corporates, asset into afocused financial technology managers, sovereign wealth funds and global, regional company andour continued and central banks.
NEX will become synonymous with a supermarket of services, delivering world-class products investment in new product and and first-rate service andsupport to our clients.
service offerings will result in With NEX Markets we have the worlds leading long-term growth.
electronic trading platform for the fixed income marketsand a leading electronic FX trading business with significant market share in many currencies.
We Single legal agreements and a single interface will continue to develop the next generation of financial further simplify our clients ability to pick and choose technology for the trading community which will enable multiple products either individually or in combination us to create the pre-eminent global e-platform for the based on their requirements and not our own FXand fixed income markets.
At the same time, we are corporate structure.
restructuring the business to be far more client-focused.
An example of this is NEX Regulatory Reporting.
This past year we have seen significant growth on Launched in March, this combines a suite of best-inEBSDirect, our FX relationship-based trading venue, breed services provided by multiple NEX Optimisation withnew counterparties trading on the platform, record businesses under a single umbrella to offer our clients daily volumes and the roll out of FX forwards to new an extremely powerful and fully resilient cross-asset client segments.
Our enhancements to the EBS central  regulatory reporting solution.
limit order book, EBS Market, such as the launch of EBS At the beginning of the year we acquired ENSO Financial Live Ultra our premium market data service are Analytics.
We have been and continue to be impressed benefiting clients and maintaining our market share, by ENSO, who have demonstrated the ability to build and we have seen further expansion of our Asian NDF ahedge fund client base to which they deliver an business in addition to our eFix matching service.
expanding and well-regarded product set.
In October BrokerTec continues to be the reference point in the wecompleted our acquisition of Abide Financial.
Since USTreasury market and we have seen growth in US Abide first came to our attention, we knew it was a and EU repo.
In March, BrokerTec acquired a majority business which fitted perfectly with our strategy to share in e-MID a multilateral tradingplatform for serve our clients changing needs.
It is one of a very interbank deposits and money market instruments small number of companies who offer holistic regulatory in Europe.
Integrating the e-MID technology into our reporting services, which will become ever more critical infrastructure, we can offer its Italiangovernment as financial markets evolve.
bondrepo and interbank deposit businesses to our During the period we also invested in RSRCHXchange, extensive international client base.
With access to aMiFID II marketplace for institutional research: Axoni, thedomestic financial community in Italy, we plan to aleading provider of distributed ledger technology: establish a money market offering for Italian corporates OpenFin, a unifying operating layer for financial desktops: and are excited about contributing tothe further and Cloud9 Technologies, a cloud-based communication development and evolution in this centralmarket.
In addition, we made a further investment In NEX Optimisation we already have many solutions in OpenGamma, a leading provider of derivatives that help clients simplify and optimise their resources risk analytics.
These acquisitions and investments demonstrate how the team within our financial technology investment business, NEX Opportunities, issuccessfully building an impressive portfolio of emerging financial technology companies.
8 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions We continue to identify and provide capital to firms The event raised 8.2 million supporting over 200 For the business model delivering new platforms, business models and next charities globally, which is equivalent to more than 5% see pages 2-3 generation technologies with the objective of driving of NEXs full-year pre-tax trading profit.
My thanks to significant efficiency, transparency and scale across all involved for their tremendous spirit and support.
For Charity Day the transaction lifecycle.
see pages 18-19 This years dividend and outlook for the NEX Exchange has exactly the same regulatory, legal coming year and tax status as the alternative markets, which we For financial results The directors recommend a final dividend of 27.0p per see pages 24-29 combine with a high-quality service to help share which will result in a full-year dividend of 38.5p per entrepreneurs raise capital on the public market.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 21 July 2017 to shareholders 2016 17 on the register at the close of business on 30 June 2017.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group reported The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 29 June 2017. revenue from continuing operations of 543 million, up 18% on the prior year.
On a constant currency basis, Our performance continues to be strong in a tough revenue from NEX Markets was up 8% and from NEX market environment while trading activity since the Optimisation was up 9%.
start of the year has been subdued as volatility remains low despite sporadic activity around political events.
In During the course of the year, the Groups trading the year ahead NEX will continue to make progress on performance benefited from increases in market share its strategy to deliver against its growth objectives and across various products including BrokerTec UST Actives drive operational leverage.
and Asian NDFs and new product launches such as triResolve Margin and new functionality on EBS Treasury.
I would like to thank our employees for their energy and This was partly offset by historically low FX volatility commitment during this transition year.
We have much impacting trading activity on the EBS FX platform.
ahead of us as we create a strong identity for NEX.
I am convinced that together we have the innovation and The Group reported a trading operating profit of leadership skills to enable us to build a great business.
145 million, an increase of 4% on the prior year or 12% if we exclude the impact of FX hedging.
Although the Groups trading operating profit margin Michael Spencer reduced to 27% 2015 16: 30%, underlying profitability Group Chief Executive Officer was higher after adjusting for FX hedging.
Charity Day Our 24th Annual Charity Day was held in December 2016.
This truly global fundraising event has become afixed point in the financial services industry calendar.
Itwas a delight to welcome Prince Harry as well as the Countess of Wessex and many other celebrity patrons ofour selected charities to the London office.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 9 INNOVATIVE DELIVERY Our investment in our people and culture supports thesuccess of our business.
Webuild long-term relationships and arecommitted to the highest standards in everything we do.
10 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 EMPLOYEES BY LOCATION China New Jersey New York Hong Kong Tokyo 147 676 300 13 271 17 379 11 16 89 Tel Aviv Stockholm Singapore Milan UK London: 634, Bristol: 42 By region Employees in satellite offices: 22 Americas and Canada 579 Asia Pacific 143 Europe, Middle East and Africa 1,219 1,941 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 11
