A message from our Chief Executive Whilst weve continued to bring new services to our customers, invested in our digital infrastructure and made significant improvements to the customer experience, Id be the first to say that 2016 17 has been a challenging year, and one that has been humbling for us all at BT.
The behaviours and practices we found Weve continued to invest in the UKs digital and fixed networks over the next three in our Italian business, as well as Ofcoms future.
Weve now passed over 26.5 million years.
This investment will enable the UK findings around Openreachs use of the premises with our superfast fibre broadband to make social and economic progress, Deemed Consent process a number of years network.
Our ultrafast deployment, which consolidate our position as the UKs digital ago, have no place in BT.
We take these provides speeds of 100Mbps and above, is champion and create growth over the longextremely seriously and have reviewed all also making great progress, with 500,000 term for our stakeholders.
aspects of our governance, putting in place homes and businesses now passed using new measures and controls to prevent them a mix of  and G. fast This year, through our continued innovation, from happening again.
weve also launched a range of new also faced difficult market conditions in products, services and content.
both the UK public sector and international Our mobile investment is also performing corporate markets.
Our 4G coverage now reaches Our new BT Call Protect service is proving 80% of the UKs geographical coverage, popular, helping two million customers avoid Despite these challenges though, I believe the largest of any UK operator.
And were on nuisance calls.
weve made good progress in many areas track to reach 92% by September 2017. across the business.
The integration of EE into the BT family Weve secured exclusive rights to the UEFA continues to go well, and we have delivered Champions League and UEFA Europa League After a two-year negotiation, we reached cost synergies earlier than originally planned until the end of the 2020 21 season, a comprehensive and enduring agreement in our first year.
covering double-header nights during the with Ofcom on the long-term governance group stages and free-to-air broadcast.
This brings to a close a We believe online usage through mobile These rights are in addition to FA Cup and period of uncertainty: protects the interests devices is set to increase in the future.
Premier League football, live rugby, cricket, of millions of UK households, businesses And we also believe that everyone in the UFC and now boxing.
And weve brought and service providers who rely on our UK should be able to access superfast BT Sport content to millions of additional infrastructure, and its good news for broadband, wherever they are and as fast sport fans through digital channels such as pensioners and colleagues too.
Thats why in May 2016 we BT Sports YouTube channel, where we will committed to invest 6bn in our wireless show this years UEFA Champions League 12 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and UEFA Europa League finals.
Were also We remain committed to our strategy pleased to be the first operator to offer of broadening and deepening customer Dolby Atmos sound.
relationships and to using the power of communications to make a better world.
Were working with local authorities to launch our next generation of payphone This year has presented us with challenges kiosks, which youll start to see shortly.
and weve learnt from them.
I know we have the ability to emerge stronger and better, And weve built a unique security platform whatever challenge we face.
that integrates best-in-class technology from our partners, with our own awardWe take our role as the leading investor in winning innovation to protect our the UKs digital infrastructure very seriously.
multinational customers and the UKs critical Im determined to make sure that we remain national infrastructure.
at the heart of whats to come and that we continue to add value for our customers and Customer experience remains our top employees and for shareholders and society priority.
Weve listened to criticism and as a whole.
have a well-developed improvement plan in place.
Our efforts are starting to bear Were excited about the opportunities well fruit and customers are benefiting with create to use our unique set of assets and significantly more calls answered onshore, capabilities: the innovative new products shorter call waiting times, faster repair and services well bring to customers and times, fewer missed appointments, and the new skills and career possibilities well our best Right First Time performance provide for our people.
All of this is showing in our Group Customer Perception Score, the way we measure customer experience, which has improved for the last ten consecutive months.
While were making progress, we know our service must continue to get better and our focus will remain on delivering further improvements in the coming year.
Weve also significantly invested in our people recruiting thousands into Gavin Patterson engineering and customer-facing roles, and Chief Executive providing thousands of hours of training and 11 May 2017 development.
Weve also created more than 1,700 new apprenticeship and graduate jobs and provided 2,000 vocational training and work experience placements, mainly for out-of-work youngsters.
For so many people, BT is a source of pride and honour and we want that to always be the case.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 13
