16 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT FY17 WAS ANOTHER STRONG YEAR FOR SOPHOS, IN WHICH WE MADE SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS AGAINST OUR STRATEGIC GOALS, AND DELIVERED OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ABOVE OUR EXPECTATIONS OVERVIEW A FAST-GROWING CHANNEL AND CUSTOMER BASE Among the many highlights, the Group saw an 18.2 percent increase in total reported billings to $632.1 The number of Sophos partners grew to more than million, underpinned by 21.4 percent subscription 30,000, up from 20,000 a year ago, and the number of billings growth to $513.1 million, as we again delivered blue-chip partners rose from 4,700 to 6,100.
In FY17 growth in excess of the market in both network and we added more than 40,000 new customers, with more enduser security.
Encouragingly, the strong momentum than 260,000 organisations now using one or more at the heart of this performance was manifest across all Sophos IT security products.
With more than 60 million major regions and products, and in both new business small and mid-market enterprises around the world who and renewals, and accelerated in the second half of could benefit from Sophos industry-leading security the year.
Sophos Central remained a core driver of portfolio, integrated and managed through a single, our business, delivering growth of 220 percent and easy-to-use cloud-based platform, and sold entirely an expanding opportunity for cross-sell and upsell through the channel, our opportunity to continue to momentum.
Our cash generation was very strong, grow our market share remains significant.
with unlevered free cash flow almost tripling to $133.4 million, from $46.4 million in the prior-year.
SOPHOS CENTRAL A robust, comprehensive commitment to the cloud has STRATEGIC PROGRESS provided Sophos with a growing competitive advantage.
Sophos made significant progress in FY17, consolidating Sophos Central is a single, integrated cloud-based its position as the leading vendor of innovative, simple, management and reporting platform that has become a and highly effective cybersecurity solutions for midmeaningful driver of the Groups software subscriptions.
A number of factors have helped to Sophos Central represents 17.1 percent of subscription deliver this success which will continue to drive Sophos billings, having grown by 220 percent in the period.
forward in the years ahead, including: Leveraging the power of the cloud also allows us to deliver compelling cross-sell and upsell opportunities World-class products and innovation that provide for partners, and many are now building additional leading enterprise-grade protection validated by services businesses around the Sophos partner portal, numerous third parties, that at the same time are which enables them to manage, update and configure easy to deploy, use, and manage their customers solutions remotely.
Cloud-enabled security solutions that include The Group expanded and enhanced Sophos Central a single, integrated cloud-based management throughout the year, with new endpoint, server and console and cloud delivery of multiple security mobile security solutions, as well as additional partner capabilities and managed service provider MSP features.
In Synchronized security product strategy, in which addition, Sophos made a number of applications network, endpoint, and all the key offerings in our available on the platform for the first time, including product portfolio actively share threat intelligence email, encryption, wireless, and web security.
information to deliver better protection that is also September 2016 saw the launch of Intercept X, easier to manage an exciting next-generation endpoint protection application, featuring signature-less anti-exploit, 100% channel sales model anti-ransomware and root cause analytics capabilities.
Deepening and expanding our relationship with our Intercept X has resonated extremely well with partners partners and customers, to drive upsell and cross-sell INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 and customers.
In just two quarters since its launch, ACQUISITIONS more than 8,000 customers have purchased Intercept X In February 2017 Sophos announced the acquisition of on the Sophos Central cloud-management platform.
Invincea, Inc. a leading developer of advanced nextgeneration malware protection, consistently ranked WORLD-CLASS PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION as among the best performing signature-less, nextA commitment to industry-leading innovation, focused generation endpoint technologies in third-party testing, on our target customer, combined with a strong rated highly both for high detection and low falsedemand backdrop and an increasingly powerful channel positive rates.
The Invincea endpoint security portfolio ecosystem enabled Sophos to continue to gain market prevents, detects, and remediates zero-day and share, outpacing market growth rates in both enduser sophisticated attacks, and combines neural-network and network security.
based machine learning and behavioural monitoring to In addition to the launch of Intercept X, there was an enhance detection through artificial intelligence and enthusiastic response to the newest release of the stop evasive malware before damage occurs.
Sophos XG Firewall, helping the Group achieve 17.8 Invincea complements and enhances Sophos existing percent growth in network security billings for the presence in next-generation endpoint protection, a year, at constant currency.
With version 16.0 launched dynamic new segment that is serving to increase in October 2016, customers are benefiting from over meaningfully the size and growth rate of the multi- 100 new features and significant enhancements to billion dollar endpoint security market as a whole.
the user experience, particularly navigation, policy Invinceas advanced machine learning technology is a management and logging, as well as additional critical element in the broad array of advanced endpoint synchronized security features linking the XG firewall technology components that customers will require with endpoint, encryption, mobile, and other security in order to protect themselves effectively against the offerings.
Sophos is already a leader in the emerging growing number and sophistication of cyber threats cloud-based infrastructure market for security, a that face organisations of all sizes.
The integration growing opportunity as enterprises adopt infrastructure of the Invincea technology into the Sophos Central as a service via the cloud.
XG Firewall version 16.0 endpoint product line is progressing well, with the first introduced support for the Microsoft Azure cloud Sophos products incorporating Invinceas machine platform in addition to the existing support for Amazon learning technology expected to be available and sold Web Services.
via our global channel of over 30,000 partners in 2017, bringing immediate value to customers.
18 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT CONTINUED AN EARLY COMMITMENT TO THE CLOUD HAS GIVEN SOPHOS A REAL AND GROWING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE While we are pleased with the scale, growth, and DEEPENING THE RELATIONSHIP momentum we have established, we firmly believe WITH OUR CUSTOMERS we are just getting started.
Security continues to be a We further increased the amount of cross-sell and upsell mission-critical, board-level priority for organisations business with existing customers, a key element of the of every size that only rises in importance with each Groups growth strategy.
Our net renewal rate achieved passing year.
Delivering true enterprise-grade protection on our subscription business was over 106 percent in the to mid-market enterprises, in a way that is integrated year, including cross-sell and upsell, versus 102 percent and simple to deploy and manage, all sold through the a year ago.
Furthermore, the proportion of customers channel, provides Sophos with a substantial market purchasing both the Sophos endpoint and unified threat opportunity.
Our company mission is to be the best in the management UTM products was just under 10 percent world at delivering innovative, simple, and highly-effective at the end of the period, up from 7 percent a year ago.
The cybersecurity solutions to IT professionals and the channel continued improvement in these areas demonstrates that serves them.
We believe we are uniquely positioned the Groups success in leveraging its product portfolio to successfully execute against that mission, and as we and the benefits that both partners and customers are do so, our opportunities to continue to grow and succeed, gaining from an integrated, synchronised approach both operationally and financially, are dramatic.
Sophos success is only possible through the INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP commitment and hard work of our global team of During the year, leading industry analysts including employees and partners, and I would like to extend my Gartner and Forrester once again endorsed Sophos as a personal thanks to them for all they do to support and leader for products in both enduser and network security.
protect hundreds of thousands of organisations around In addition, Sophos won numerous channel awards, the world each day.
including 2016 Endpoint Security Innovation winner CRN US, 2016 Data Security winner CRN US, 2016 Network Security winner CRN US, 2016 Security Vendor of the Kris Hagerman Year CRN UK, and 2016 Channel Excellence Award Chief Executive Officer winner - Security Hardware Channel Partner DACH.
Furthermore, in February 2017, five senior Sophos 16 May 2017 executives were named in CRNs prestigious list of 2017 Channel Chiefs, which represents top leaders in the IT channel who excel at driving growth and revenue in their organisations through channel partners.
