Croydon tram incident Chief Executives report Shortly after 6am on 9 November 2016 a tramwe operate on behalf of TfL overturned on a curve as it approached the Sandilands junction in Croydon.
Seven people lost theirlives in the incident and many other passengers were injured.
This tragic incident deeply shocked and saddened us all, and we feel the effect throughout our organisation.
We are profoundly sorry that such an incident couldtake place aboard a service we operate.
Our thoughts remain with the families and friends grieving for people who lost their lives, and those who were injured and affected by this terrible event.
The emergency services responded The Croydon tram derailment immediately to the incident, as did employees deeply shocked and saddened and the senior managers from our tram operations team.
Colleagues from our us all, and we feel the effect raildivision were also deployed to assist, includingemployees specically trained throughout our organisation.
We inproviding support to the families and friendsofthose involved.
Together with are profoundly sorry that such an TfL, wecontinue to provide support and assistance tothose affected.
incident could take place aboard The Croydon trams are operated by Tram a service we operate.
Operations Limited, a company within our Group, under a contract with Tramtrack Croydon Limited which is a subsidiary of TfL.
Our company provides the drivers and management to operate the tram service, whereas the infrastructure and trams are owned and maintained by Tramtrack CroydonLimited.
Before services recommenced after the incident, Tram Operations Limited worked closely with TfL to implement additional measures including improved signage and speed restrictions.
We also put in place enhanced speed monitoring across the tramnetwork.
A number of regulatory bodies are conducting investigations and we are actively assisting them: they are being undertaken by the Rail Accident Investigation Branch, the British Transport Police and the Ofce of Rail and Road.
Due to the complex nature of these investigations their outcomes may not be known for many months.
We are focused on understanding the exact cause of this incident and will continue to provide our full support and assistance to the ongoing investigations.
Our commitment to the safety of our passengers, our employees and other parties who engage with us is unwavering.
Each year we carry more than 2 billion passengers more than 10 billion miles and we are responsible for more than 100,000 employees.
That is why safety is central to our culture andarticulated through our value of Dedicated to Safety always front of mind, safety is our way of life.
06 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report We are pleased with this years improved We have also invested in more training for Our financial performance in the year financial results, with Group revenue, adjusted ourcustomer-facing employees in the year, We have achieved the financial ambitions set operating profit and statutory operating profit particularly in Greyhound, First Bus and First out at the start of the year, including delivery increasing by 8.3%, 12.7% and 15.1% Rail, and have enlarged our apprenticeship ofa significant increase in net cash respectively.
In constant currency, Group and graduate recruitment schemes in the UK.
generation, and those results were delivered revenue decreased by 0.5% and adjusted To make the most of our scale and breadth of notwithstanding a number of changes in the operating profit increased by 2.3%.
Excluding expertise across the UK and North America, we environment in which we operate.
Overall, the First Rail division where margin rebased have also invested in our collaboration tools and thisyears results demonstrate the progress under new contracts, our Road divisions realigned some of our structures to enhance wehave made in repositioning FirstGroup to increased adjusted operating profit in constant best practice sharing across the organisation.
deliver for our customers while creating value currency by 10.3%.
The improvement in our forour shareholders, commensurate with our Group outlook operating performance combined with a leading market positions and scale.
We have In the year ahead, the Group faces a mixed rigorous focus on capital efficiency resulted in done so by adapting our plans and remaining trading environment with opportunities for asubstantial increase in net cash inflow this flexible while maintaining our focus on our five steady progress in the North American divisions year, to 147.2m 2016: 36.0m before rail strategic objectives: focused and disciplined but continued economic uncertainty in the UK.
franchise outflows, and a reduction in our bidding in our contract businesses: driving We expect to make further progress from the netdebt: EBITDA ratio to 1.9x 2016: 2.3x.
growth through attractive commercial Road divisions, with First Rails margin propositions in our passenger revenue Investing in our future reducing, and to continue to generate free businesses: continuous improvement in In addition to improving our financial cash after disciplined investment to support our operating and financial performance: prudent performance, we have continued to invest customers and communities needs across investment in our key assets fleets, systems inour future by making it easier for our the Group.
and people : and maintaining responsible passengers to use our services and to First Student is now executing the fourth bid partnerships with our customers deepenour interaction with our customers.
season under our strategy to move to a smaller andcommunities.
Greyhounds business model transformation but higher-returning contract portfolio, and has led the way, but throughout the Group we First Student delivered an excellent therefore an increasing proportion of at risk have asked ourselves what would make our performance, with another well-executed contracts have already been awarded under services more convenient or attractive for our bidseason and timely action to lock in cost our up or out strategy.
As such, we expect the passengers, and the results include: making efficiencies at the start of the year.
For the team average price increase achievable to moderate our tickets easier to book online and through to deliver a 250bps improvement in margin and our contract retention rate to trend upwards smartphone apps: increasing the provision of to9.6% this year given the ongoing driver over time: we will also continue to target real-time travel information to our passengers shortage challenges besetting the industry was furthercost efficiencies across the division.
and contract authorities: and improving our an impressive performance, even with more InFirstTransit we will continue to bid for customer relationship systems and operating days and lower fuel costs assisting.
transportation management contracts offering processesto allow us to offer an increasingly First Transit continued to deliver growth good margins with modest capital investment, personalised service.
We are also integrating fromcore and adjacent markets despite the seeking to replenish and grow our portfolio both passenger revenue and bus location ongoing contraction of our Canadian oil sands within our core and adjacent markets.
With our information into our management systems, business in the year, and took rapid action to pricing and yield management algorithms enhancing our efficiency and productivity resolve cost challenges experienced in the first continuing to increase in effectiveness we are whilesaving cost.
Technology isakey enabler half in order to maintain our longstanding track confident that Greyhound can return to for driving future passenger growth by record of margin delivery.
In Greyhound growth in the year ahead.
We will continue to delivering insights from our customers and wedelivered an improvement in margin by focus on matching our timetables to demand to creating new platforms for us to provide what continuing to flex our operations in response maximise the considerable operating leverage ourcustomers and communities want.
tothe evolving passenger demand in the business.
Our expectations for First Bus environment, while beginning to benefit from We continued to make progress with our recognise that industry conditions remain the transformation we have made to our Group-wide Be Safe behaviour change challenging and our focus therefore must business model in recent years.
In First Bus programme this year.
Established and robust remain on tailored cost efficiencies to improve like-for-like passenger revenue was 0.6% lower safety management systems are embedded our margin.
We therefore expect to continue overall, with passenger demand across the across our businesses, with risk evaluation, tomake changes to the shape and breadth industry affected by high street retail footfall training and compliance with our safety ofour depot network, while continuing trends andworsening congestion.
We continue processes, policies and procedures at the disciplined investment to stimulate growth torespond with specific actions tailored core.
The Be Safe programme aims to where appropriate.
In First Rail we remain toconditions in each of our local markets.
accelerate progress towards our goal of zero cautious on the rate of passenger growth in Similarly, First Rail like-for-like passenger harm.
With the aim of making safety a core light of current industry conditions, and expect revenue growth was 1.3%, with the slowdown personal value for colleagues across the divisional margin to be lower as a result.
We seen across the industry compared with the Group, this programme works together with look forward to commencing operation of the prior year clearly exacerbated by the our safety management systems and builds South Western franchise from August 2017 in magnitude of the infrastructure upgrade on compliance by recognising and reinforcing conjunction with our partner MTR Corporation.
activity on our Great Western Railway GWR safe behaviours.
In the year, more than 5,000 franchise in theyear.
As previously indicated, managers and supervisors have been through Tim OToole First Rails trading margin is also rebasing to the training across the Group, bringing the Chief Executive reflect the terms of the new TransPennine total trained to 8,500.
Be Safe is a major 1 June 2017 Express TPE franchise and GWR direct programme, and we will continue to invest award, albeit partially mitigated with cost thenecessary time, resource and effort into its efficiencies.
Profitability atboth First Bus and success, as such culture change takes time.
First Rail was also adversely affected by the US dollar-denominated nature of their fuel purchases, which together affected our resultsby 19.8m.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07
