Chief Executives strategic review Westbourne Studios, Ladbroke Grove.
16Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report This year, more than ever before, Our results this year give a clear Workspace is a property We celebrate our 30th we have seen increasing indication of how weve been company: however, we are also anniversary this year and we are evidence to give us confidence able to capture these an online retailer of space and a proud to have supported many in our strategy and business opportunities.
Weve seen technology provider with businesses in achieving their model.
The commercial real consistently strong demand for customer service at the centre of success over that time.
The estate market is swinging on an our space, with high levels of what we do.
As we bring new insight and deep market axis and the pendulum of enquiries despite the uncertainty and upgraded space to the knowledge that comes from our demand is moving firmly that followed the outcome of the market, it is clear that while the long history in London, alongside towards highly designed and EU Referendum.
Our rental quality of the real estate is an inherent culture of innovation, super connected space let on growth has outperformed the critical, the facilities that we are has created a powerful flexible terms.
market, with like-for-like rent roll able to offer our customers are combination that positions us up 13.7% in the year and rent per just as important.
Business owners all over London sq.
A tight control are looking at their space over costs means that the Recognising that Workspace has requirements and considering a growth achieved in rental a true advantage, in May 2017 we range of new factors when income falls straight to the launched the Workspace assessing their occupational bottom line and, as a result, Advantage marketing campaign.
They are taking trading profit increased 15.5% to This involved a wide-reaching into account employee 50.7m in the year.
presence across digital and Chief Executive Officer commutes, availability of social platforms, as well as meeting and breakout space Its been another active year for creative visuals placed in tube outside the four walls of their the Workspace team, with a carriages and stations all over office, proximity to excellent number of new buildings coming London to target commuters on coffee, gyms and safe cycling on stream, all of which have their way to and from work.
routes, as well as the quality of performed ahead of the technology infrastructure expectations.
We have also been The advantage that Workspace and the neighbourhood successful in achieving several customers have access to is community which can provide so planning consents during the three-fold: business-grade many additional benefits to their year, while continuing to manage connectivity with no constraints, business.
some exciting refurbishment personalisation of space, lease projects that will be launching terms and facilities, and a This trend is positive for us as it soon.
We have continued to community that fosters business means that almost any business seize opportunities to expand growth.
And all of that is set could be a Workspace customer and, more recently, we acquired within the inspiring spaces and we are marketing to a much a prime office building in the created in our business centres.
our space attracting freelancers, As we directly manage our start-ups, established businesses Looking forward, theres a huge relationships with our customers, and larger, more traditional amount more to come.
We have we can be confident that our organisations, the opportunities a strong pipeline of offer meets the criteria they for us to grow our business are refurbishment and value in searching for a home for significant.
redevelopment projects, which their business.
However, with will deliver more than one million businesses constantly evolving, sq.
ft. of new and upgraded these criteria are not static and it space over the next three years, is crucial that we continue to and we continue to have great innovate and upgrade our confidence in our ability to systems and practices to ensure expand and grow our business.
we are always enhancing our offer.
We are confident in our strategy and believe the Workspace Advantage will continue to deliver business growth.
Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer 17Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives strategic review continued The right strategy drives future performance.
Right market London is growing and changing.
Right Right brand properties Increasing Creating recognition modern growth and reputation.
The Workspace Advantage Right Right people customers Driving Open to all.
This strategy has been in Right market Right customers Right brand place for over five years now.
We continue to believe that When we defined our current Workspace has a strong brand Its relevance and different London is the right market strategy, we defined our and we work hard to ensure component parts are discussed for our business.
As explained customer market as New and that our offer is highly visible and debated regularly at Board on page 5, the opportunity Growing Companies.
Over the to prospective customers as and Executive Committee in London is extremely attractive years, this has evolved and they embark on their search for meetings and we continue with growing demand from all we now find that our offer is office space.
Digital marketing, to believe that it is the right types of businesses for our relevant to all businesses, from a strong social media presence strategy for the business.
In addition, our deep freelancers and early stage and employees who live the knowledge of the real estate businesses right up to well brand values are all key to In fact, as outlined by our market in London means known brands and established attracting and retaining Chief Executive on page 17, we have been successful in companies from all industries.
customers and ensuring high we believe that the wider real acquiring new properties that levels of customer satisfaction.
estate market is moving ever meet the demand for space Right people closer towards our strategy and will deliver attractive Employing the right people Case studies on the following with companies adapting in order returns to shareholders.
continues to be critical for pages demonstrate the strategy to meet the increasing demand the success of the business.
in action over the last year and for flexibility, well-designed Right properties Workspaces operational nature outline how our strategy will office space with all the right One of the principal growth drivers means our teams are managing continue to deliver results in amenities and a secure, reliable of our business is the letting a huge amount of activity every the future.
up of new and upgraded space day and are tirelessly focused on delivered by our refurbishment servicing our customers.
We some of the unique roles held by remain focused on creating and, our employees in the resources opportunistically, acquiring the and relationships section on right properties that will attract pages 28 and 29. our customers.
1 18W 8Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce G e Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t an and d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 201 17 7 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Right market Right Right brand properties The Workspace Advantage Right Right people customers Strategy in action: Let up ahead of expectations, more in the pipeline The new Grand Union Studios on Ladbroke Grove opened to customers in March 2016.
By December 2016, it was 80% let, at pricing significantly above expectations, demonstrating the strong demand we continue to see from customers for our space.
The success of this project gives us the confidence to proceed with our extensive pipeline of refurbishments and similar redevelopments.
During the year, we received planning consent at four sites, including for refurbishments at Pall Mall Deposit, also in Ladbroke Grove, and Mare Street Studios in Hackney.
Grand Union Studios 19Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives strategic review continued Right market Right Right brand properties The Workspace Advantage Right Right people customers Strategy in action: Training to be the best We hold regular training sessions and interactive workshops for different departments in order to ensure our employees are fully up to speed with the latest regulatory developments and have access to career development opportunities.
With such a focus on customer service, it is vital that our frontline teams are well trained and have a clear understanding of our brand values and proposition.
Members of staff attended 889 training days or workshops during the year on subjects ranging from facilities management pictured here to data protection.
Read more about the learning and development opportunities open to our employees on page 30.
20Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Right market Right Right brand properties The Workspace Advantage Right Right people customers Strategy in action: The Leather Market One of our most iconic business centres, acquired in the early 1990s, The Leather Market is a listed building in London Bridge.
It is currently under refurbishment to bring the services and design up to the high standards that our customers require today.
The project, which completes in August 2017, includes the creation of a newly designed entrance, high quality caf and connected meeting rooms.
The recycling of capital receipts from disposals to fund our ongoing refurbishment programme is a key part of our strategy and helps to drive income and capital value growth.
21Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives strategic review continued The Record Hall Right market Right Right brand properties The Workspace Advantage Right Right people customers Strategy in action: Taking advantage of market opportunities From a tired office building that had reached its maximum pricing potential, in a hugely popular area just moments from Farringdons Crossrail station, Workspace has launched its newest business centre on to the market.
We have already seen good demand for The Record Hall in Hatton Garden, which will boast 89 units, roof terraces, Club Workspace, high-spec meeting rooms, workshops for jewellery traders and the trial of a new caf partnership for Workspace.
For more information visit www.
co. uk workspaces the-record-hall 22Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Right market Right Right brand properties The Workspace Advantage Right Right people customers Strategy in action: Filling the pipeline In April 2017, we acquired 13-17 Fitzroy Street, a fantastic building in a very attractive central London location.
Let to engineering firm Arup until 2020, the building will then enter our refurbishment pipeline with plans to reposition it as a multi-let business centre for our customers.
Fitzroy Street 23Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
