CHieF exeCUTiVeS reVieW Summary: margin improvement despite deflation Dairy Crest has implemented significant changes during the last two years.
We are a much leaner, more focused organisation that makes predominantly branded and high value-added products.
This allows management and the business to focus on those areas that will drive long-term value creation: innovation, brand building, efficiency improvements and cost reduction.
I am particularly pleased that overall margins in the business have improved.
This is despite the difficult input cost environment and the longer than expected commissioning period of the new functional ingredients facility at Davidstow.
The strength of our brands, our well-invested supply chain and the quality of our people all ensure that the Company is well positioned for the future.
This will help us to maintain our strong track record of rewarding shareholders with higher dividends.
market background: the return of inflation We are a major UK buyer of milk and last year we purchased around 500 million litres.
The past year has seen a turning point in dairy prices.
After a prolonged period of deflation, dairy commodity prices have experienced strong gains.
Low milk prices had an effect on milk volumes.
They were down in most large milk Highlights producing countries across the world.
During the course of the year we have increased the price Adjusted profit before tax up 5% to we pay farmers for milk by 38% to 30 pence per litre.
Since then 60.6m we have announced a 1 pence per litre reduction from June and a further 1 pence per litre reduction from July.
We pay our farmers a fair, competitive price for their milk and our price remains one of Cathedral City returns to volume growth the highest in the country.
in the second half However these inflationary forces do take time to work their way through to the prices that consumers see in the shops.
In the first nine months of the financial year cheese retail prices fell Frylight, Clover and Country Life or remained stable.
Since Christmas, however, we have seen spreadable all grow volume and increase evidence of prices increasing on shelf.
market share Butter has been even more affected than cheese.
Cream prices, which determine the input costs for butter, more than doubled during the year.
Inevitably this has impacted margins in Demineralised whey production meets our butters, spreads and oils business.
targeted levels of infant formula grade Managing volatility is a challenge for both us and food retailers, our principal customers.
For this reason we continue to work with our customers to help to grow our categories through innovation, Partnerships with DuPont and others to marketing and category merchandising.
research GOS usage in animal nutrition trials underway Key brands perform robustly Overall revenues from our four key brands were down 6%.
This is in line with our expectations.
Most of this decline was due to Innovation proportion of sales from the deflationary market place that we experienced for over three recently launched products now 13%, quarters of the year.
Key brand volumes were flat across the year.
well above target Volume growth in Frylight, Clover and Country Life spreadable was offset by declines in Country Life block butter, which we promoted less, and Cathedral City.
However, as predicted, the latter made Net debt increased as expected due good progress in the second half of the year, with a return to to completion of Davidstow volume growth.
commissioning and final payment to Cheese Mller on sale of Dairies business IRI data for the 52 weeks ended 25 March 2017 shows that the total cheese market grew by 3% in volume but was unchanged Proposed final dividend up 1.9% to in value terms.
Within this the everyday cheese market grew by 2% in volume but fell by 3% in value, a deflation of 5%.
For 16.3 pence much of the year there were high levels of cheese stocks in the market.
In order to maintain the brands premium positioning within the category we decided against discounting aggressively.
Consequently, Cathedral City slightly underperformed this market growth, with volumes down 3% for the year.
However volumes improved in the second half and this positive momentum has continued into 2017 18.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 9 Strategic report CHIEF ExECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Brand market Dairy Crest Dairy Crest volume growth value growth Cathedral City Cheese 3 % 9 % Butters, spreads, Clover 1% 9 % margarine Butters, spreads, Country Life 0% 2% margarine Frylight Oils 23% 19% Total 0% 6 % Dairy Crest volume and value sales 12 months to 31 March 2017 vs 12 months to 31 March 2016 Cathedral City remains the nations favourite cheese brand.
It During the year we redesigned the pack to emphasise its no accounts for 54% of total branded everyday cheese sales in the artificial ingredients credentials and this was highlighted in well UK and almost three fifths of households bought Cathedral City received TV advertising in the fourth quarter.
This advertising has during the past year.
driven increased growth during the final quarter with market share Earlier in the year we successfully rolled out a refreshed climbing to 15% and the brand will be advertised again in the first master brand identity for Cathedral City.
The new design simplifies quarter of this year.
We were delighted that during the year Frylight the brand, improves visibility on shelf and strengthens our range.
received the Institute of Grocery and Distribution IGD Health and This allows our brand investment to work better across the whole Wellness product award.
of the growing cheese category.
It was supported by significant investment including a successful new TV advertisement, The infant formula quality improvement Rules of Cheese.
We have seen a positive consumer reaction The quality targets for infant formula grade demineralised whey both to the new packaging and the marketing campaign.
During the year we have continually improved our product so that by the year end we had met our Spreads and butters target of 80% of our demineralised whey being of infant formula IRI total market data for the 52 weeks ended 25 March 2017 grade.
The feedback we have received from customers so far on shows that butter volumes grew by 2% but that spreads volumes the quality of our product has been very positive.
Selling prices for spreads were down very slightly with Fonterra we are building our sales relationships with infant for the year and for butters were up slightly.
However, for butter formula producers for both GOS and demineralised whey and this full year number masks the change from heavy deflation in the expect strong growth in sales of these products during the coming first part of the year to price increases of 16% in the last quarter.
year, with the majority of this growth coming in the second half of Our main spreads brand, Clover, had a very successful year, the year.
growing volumes at 1% versus a significant market decline, partly Long-term demand for proteins looks robust.
Whey protein driven by increased promotional volumes.
Our other smaller concentrate prices have risen strongly in the second half and spreads brands, Utterly Butterly, Vitalite and Willow also performed demineralised whey prices are now starting to firm.
We are well well and our total volume growth in spreads, including Clover, was positioned to deliver improved returns in 2017 18.
4%, 11 percentage points better than the market.
This means that An important part of the long-term future for GOS is its our overall spreads market share has climbed by 2 percentage potential beyond the infant formula market, to extend its use into points to 27.2%.
other areas such as animal and adult nutrition.
The research and With Clover we continued to reinforce the no artificial ingredients development programme for GOS in animals has broadened positioning through a marketing campaign in the first half of the year and during the year we signed an agreement with Danisco and launched new packaging in the second half of the year.
We were Animal Nutrition, part of DuPont.
Trials are now underway in this pleased that the no artificial ingredients recipe received external partnership that will provide an extensive level of research into the recognition as Product of the Year 2017 in the spreads category in benefits of GOS in the animal husbandry industry.
the worlds largest consumer survey award for product innovation.
Whilst Country Life overall volumes were flat for the year, sales innovation were up 2%.
Country Life spreadable, which accounts for 65% of The retained business is much more focused following the sale brand sales, grew volumes by 6% and was the best performing of the Dairies business.
The pace of innovation is, and needs major branded spreadable product over the year.
However the to be, an important point of difference.
Future growth will be block product experienced a volume decline as we promoted less underpinned by innovation.
following the sharp rises in input costs.
Our Innovation Centre on the Harper Adams University campus, which opened in late 2015, is already helping to drive our Frylight: another exceptional year ambitious target of 10% of sales each year coming from innovation Frylight, our one calorie cooking spray, has had another outstanding in the previous three years.
This year, helped by the re-launch of year.
Volumes grew by 23% and sales by 19%, well ahead of market Clover with no artificial ingredients, we achieved 13% of sales growth of 1% and 2% respectively Kantar data for the 52 weeks from innovation during the last three years.
This is an industryended 26 March 2017.
Frylight has strengthened its lead as the leading level of innovation.
UKs number one oil brand and increased its share of the market for the whole year to 11%, with a household penetration rate of 23%.
10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 GROWING Innovation continues to drive our business forward.
As well as Future prospects building on the success of the new Clover product, in the year In the first full year since the transformational sale of our Dairies ended 31 March 2017, we: business, we have delivered a robust performance in a tough brought a new Frylight product to market avocado spray oil: market.
developed a new Frylight cap design to be launched in early Our industry leading margins are the result of us driving long- 2017 18: term value through innovation, brand building, investment in a launched a new Cathedral City snack bar range: world class supply chain and strong cost control.
re-launched the Cathedral City spreadable range: Our key brands continue to perform well.
Cathedral City strengthened our dairy free Vitalite range with the launch of a remains the nations favourite cheese and following its brand new coconut variant: and refresh at the start of the year, the good progress and momentum agreed a partnership with Fowler Welch Coolchain Ltd, a logistics we have seen in the last six months has continued in the new specialist, to maximise the throughput at our Nuneaton distribution financial year.
Our overall spreads market share has climbed, and and warehousing site.
Frylight had another outstanding year with sales growing 19%, well ahead of the market.
The ongoing investment we are putting A simpler business behind our brands gives me confidence that we can grow market Dairy Crest is a simple, lean and responsive business.
five well-invested manufacturing sites and fewer than 1,200 We have continued to make good progress in our demineralised employees.
There are opportunities to further simplify procedures whey operations at Davidstow.
We are now hitting our targeted level and support structures within the business.
During the year of demineralised whey being of infant formula grade.
Developing our we embarked on a change to our core IT systems which will sales of demineralised whey and GOS into the high-margin global bring benefits over the next two years.
This will deliver a more infant formula market will be a key priority this year.
At the same appropriate and cost effective IT infrastructure for a business of time we are continuing our research into other potential animal and our scale and is also acting as a catalyst for us to simplify the human applications for GOS.
processes that sit alongside these IT systems.
Looking forward, I am excited about the future for Dairy Crest.
We continue to drive operational efficiency improvements.
A The business is well positioned to deliver profitable, sustainable particular focus is improving performance efficiency at Kirkby, growth and stronger cash generation, underpinning our where we successfully consolidated all our butters and spreads commitment to growing our dividends and reducing debt.
production onto one site in 2015.
We are confident that all our sites will contribute towards further improved productivity over the mark Allen Chief Executive year to 31 March 2018.
17 May 2017 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 11 Strategic report
