6 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Investment property value CEO review 1,344.9m up by 21.2% Investment in primary care Rent roll premises is an essential 74.4m enabler for the necessary up by 16.6% NHStransformations.
Overview Jonathan Murphy A year of political disruption has CEO contributed towards uncertainty in thefinancial and commercial property markets.
Despite this backdrop Assura has continued to deliver superior risk adjusted returns built on a secure and long-term income stream funded by theNHS.
In the past year, our property return was 9.7%, driven by an income return of 5.3% and an increase in property values adding a further 4.4%.
At the end of the financial year, in March, Sir Robert Naylor released hislandmark review of the NHS estatehighlighting the crucial role forprimary care premises in enabling the policyimperatives of dramatically increasing evening and weekend GP appointments, encouraging practices towork together in networks or hubs and increasing significantly the primary care workforce.
It is now clear that mainstream thinking recognises that investment in primary care premises is an essential enabler to the necessary NHS transformation.
Assuras bespoke approach, one that works for the NHS, for GPs, for wider community health teams and for patients, is well suited todeliver what is required.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 7 Delivering long-term outperformance in Net initial yield movement propertyreturns Assura is a constituent of the IPD All The attractiveness of the sector has resulted in a stable yield profile with modest Healthcare Index and over the last five yield compression in recent years.
years we have delivered an annualised % ungeared return of 8.9% This level of 8 consistent performance over a long period is a testament to the skills and 7 dedication of our property team and tothe specialist knowledge we have 6 inour sector.
5 The strong returns achieved in this 4 five-year period are even more creditable given the development 3 activity of this time has been at historically low levels, as development 2 activity is a key driver of Assuras 1 returns in two ways.
Firstly, we are typically able to source developments 0 atan effective yield on cost that is Jun Jun Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar 100basis points higher than through 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 acquisitions.
Secondly, developments IPD monthly UK index initial yield Assura Net Initial Yield 15-year Gilt provide evidence of construction cost inflation that drives rental growth.
Our 398 medical centres have a rent roll points in the past year.
The portfolio of 74.4 million with the geographically Rental income netinitial yield as at 31 March 2017 diverse nature of the portfolio allowing The key driver of our property return is the was5.10%.
us to serve more than 6% of the UKs income from our long-term leases.
Our investment approach is year rental growth was 1.6% from settled We completed two developments to identify those assets we believe are rent reviews.
Most of our rent reviews are during the year at a total development best in class in their local catchment on an open market basis, set by reference cost of 13.8 million.
By acquiring those assets that to rental awards agreed with the District 0.7 million to our annual rent roll.
provide a broad range of services to Valuer on new schemes.
This means their local communities, we believe thatthey are influenced by land and We also add value through active asset these will provide greater prospects construction cost inflation over the management of our properties, working forlease renewal on expiry and so medium term.
Over recent years there with our GP tenants on proposals for drivegreater property returns over has been significant inflation in these physical extensions or agreeing new or thelong term.
costs, but this increased cost is not yet extended lease terms.
During the year fully reflected in our passing rents as the we agreed four extensions, 15 new A good example of this approach can slowdown in new schemes has reduced leases and 10 lease extensions.
be seen in our acquisition of Donnington the evidence of that inflation.
Our portfolio Together this asset management Medical Practice in Shropshire.
This is well placed to capture this rental growth activity added a further 0.4 million centre serves over 12,500 patients and once new developments recommence toour rent roll.
provides 17 additional services on site and this gives us confidence for the including blood pressure and coronary medium-term prospects for rental growth The combined impact of our investment heart disease prevention, dermatology, in our sector.
and asset management activity has minor surgery, and smoking cessation been to achieve a 7% growth in EPRA programmes.
Capital growth NAV to 49.4 pence per share.
The balance of our ungeared annualised For key properties, we are not afraid return is generated from capital growth, toacquire shorter leases, and use our which has seen a like-for-like valuation property skills to redevelop or enhance growth of 5.6% in the past year.
This the premises, whilst seeking to re-gear increase has primarily come from the lease to a longer period.
amovement in yields with our net equivalent yield moving by 23 basis 8 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CEO review continued from 21% growth in our investment contributor to the 236 million increase Maximising operational property value and a reduction in our in investment property in the year.
efficiency EPRA Cost Ratio from 17% to 14%.
Thishas enabled our rent roll to grow The property additions have been by17% to 74.4 million.
integrated by our in-house property The overall impact of all of these factors management team, which is delivering has enabled us to increase our quarterly Our in-house development team is sector-leading tenant satisfaction dividend from January 2017 by 9% to currently busier than it has been for a acrossour portfolio.
In our annual tenant 0.60 pence per share.
Although completed satisfaction survey over 95% of our schemes in the year numbered only two tenants said they would recommend us Continued focus on our sites, for a gross development cost of as potential landlords to other GPs, and specialist sector 13.8 million, the number of potential our GPs remain our greatest source of Assura represents a unique proposition opportunities has increased markedly.
We remain in our sector as we act as investor, We are currently on site at a further six focused on understanding their evolving developer and manager of our schemes with a gross development cost needs and demands, so we can be at properties.
This gives us an unrivalled of 31 million, which is a significant uplift the forefront ofthe significant investment knowledge and understanding of the from this time last year.
The pipeline required in improving premises in requirements of GPs for their premises.
remains strong, with a furthereight thefuture.
We also maintain a database of every schemes with a gross development primary care property in the UK that costof 36 million where we expect Our team of portfolio and investment enables us to identify and analyse tobe on site within the next 12 months.
managers has responsibility for potential acquisition opportunities.
identifying value enhancing asset Thisexceptional market knowledge has This increased level of activity is management opportunities, such as been a key contributor to our continued encouraging.
The schemes we are lease extensions and redevelopments success in expanding our portfolio working on are being driven by pressing within our existing estate, as well as during the year and we closed the year local requirements: however, we are yet new acquisition opportunities.
with a portfolio of 398 properties and to see the full effect of national policy avaluation in excess of 1.3 billion.
The This structure enables us to ensure that potential for the Sustainability and we can maximise the efficiency with The ongoing growth in the portfolio Transformation Plans STPs and the which we can translate increased rental haslargely been achieved through Estates and Technology Transformation income into underlying profit and hence continued acquisitions.
In the year Fund is real, though we are not yet dividends.
In the year we have delivered wecompleted 156 million of property seeing that potential converted into a 58% growth in EPRA earnings to additions, which was the largest significant investment.
This has been achieved We remain optimistic that these centralinitiatives will result in increased Ten-year Total Return vs standard investment in the future.
We have the skills, resources and capital to support deviation 2007-2016 and benefit from these plans when they convert into action.
since the inception of the IPD All Healthcare Index Total Return per annum Funding further growth 10% At the year end we had an immediate acquisition pipeline of 86 million andwe continue to identify new Residential index opportunities that meet our 8% acquisitioncriteria.
Primary Healthcare To support this continued expansion Healthcare Bonds ofthe portfolio, we have been active insourcing new funding over the past 6% Ofce Industrial year.
In May 2016, we agreed a 200 Equities million unsecured revolving credit facility with a club of four banks at an initial All property margin of 150 basis points.
At the year 4% end we had utilised 100 million of these facilities and so to provide further Retail scope for expansion we have now, in May 2017, increased this facility to 250million on the same terms.
20 15 10 5 0 increased risk Risk standard deviation reduced risk Source: MSCI Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 9 In October 2016, Assura issued 100 The plans highlight the need for a There is no doubt that the policy million of unsecured 10-year notes at a significant increase in the primary backdrop is more positive than it has fixed rate of 2.65%.
This was Assuras careworkforce with the potential been for a number of years.
However, first issue in the US private placement scope going significantly beyond there is a risk that this fails to convert market and demonstrates our ability therecruitment of new GPs.
More into significant investment on the toattract a new source of long-term community pharmacists, nurse ground.
In recent years investment funding at an attractive rate.
This practitioners, physician associates and hasdropped to historically low levels unsecured funding increases operational mental health therapists will operate despite a number of seemingly positive flexibility and reduces transaction costs from the primary care setting: however, central initiatives.
associated with financing the expanding if primary care premises do not have property portfolio.
thecapacity to host them, these Outlook desperately needed boosts to staffing With a general election just a few weeks These new facilities highlight that the levels simply cannot be achieved.
away, all eyes will be on the next steps increased financial strength of Assura is for NHS policy after 8 June.
Whatever enabling us to source new unsecured A larger workforce represents a shift the make-up of Parliament, however, funding at attractive rates.
We have intoa greater provision of primary care thefundamentals for primary care estate sustained a strong, long-term and atscale.
This reflects that larger scale will remain steadfast: to reduce pressure diversified debt profile, with 81% of our practices can more easily manage extra on hospitals, improve access to general borrowings now at fixed rate with an services and extended hours, as well as practice and help the people who rely average maturity of 8.7 years, while potentially delivering greater efficiencies onhealth services the most to reach them delivering a reduction in our weighted inoperations and back office functions.
closer to home, GP surgery buildings and average cost of debt from 4.84% To this end, there are a number of different primary care premises must be fit for the to4.06%.
ways that GPs can work together: future.
Assura is uniquely placed both to through formal alliances, federations and deliver and support in this time The loan to value ratio at the year clusters of merged practices.
endwas 37%, which provides further of working at scale rely upon larger and capacity for growth as we maintain more modern buildings.
Jonathan Murphy amedium-term target range of 40% CEO to50%.
Yet the level of government investment 22 May 2017 in primary care premises remains at Market developments historically low levels.
The Estates and Our purpose is simple: to provide GPs Technology Transformation Fund, and patients with the buildings they offering 900 million of much-needed need now, for the NHS of today and investment for both GP premises and tomorrow.
Providing a wider range surgery technology, has not resulted in ofhealth services closer to home, significant progress for buildings.
fromabroader range of primary care Demand for funding far outstrips supply, professionals, is both more convenient and the pace of projects cannot hope for patients and significantly less tomatch this demand.
We must wait expensive for the NHS.
Without the right tosee how much of the pledged buildings, however, the plans cannot 325million of additional capital for bedelivered.
The outdated and unfit themostadvanced STPs filters through converted residential stock of surgery to improve primary care estate, and we premises must evolve into purpose built await more detail on NHS Englands medical centres, with the capacity and vision to create 150 urgent treatment the capability to meet the challenges centres to take the pressure off the NHS will face in the future.
Given the complex pressures on our Of course, health policy and health National Health Service, it is perhaps economics are extremely complex, so nosurprise that the prosaic matter of weengage regularly with the NHS and bricks and mortar rarely makes it to the government to make the case for further top of the policy agenda.
However, in the investment in primary care infrastructure, past year the importance of improving both through our expanding in-house the quality of physical infrastructure has capability and through our chairing of the been explicitly recognised as being part British Property Federations Healthcare of the solution.
We believe that our model offers the best solution to the NHSs Local STPs delivered this year set capital problem for primary care estate, outthe optimal design for services so we work hard to ensure policymakers in44geographical areas.
As ever, have a clear understanding of the benefits thereis a huge variety in the detail of the it can bring.
There is a common thread across all the plans that the primary care estate will be a crucial enabler ofwhat they are trying to deliver.
