Strategic Report Executing our long-term strategy Questions to the Chief Executive How would you describe SSEs performance in 2016 17?
Managing change The best word is robust.
Im pleased that we met our financial objective and took some major steps to prepare the business for for the long term the future, whilst not losing sight of the need to deliver the efficient and safe operations that customers rely on.
The operating context continues to present challenges and its clear that a combination of political uncertainty SSE Chief Executive Alistair Phillips-Davies answers questions and technology will change our energy on SSEs performance in 2016 17 and looks ahead to 2017 18 sector in the years ahead.
Thats why SSEs and beyond.
focus is on what it does well: building, owning and operating assets and providing energy safely and efficiently for customers.
We are a business that is focused, adaptable and resilient and this has formed the basis of our solid performance and forms the foundations for sustainable growth.
What aspect of SSEs performance in 2016 17 has disappointed you the most and, what has pleased you the most?
Im pleased with the progress at our major investments, notably the Caithness-Moray transmission link and our portfolio of renewable energy developments.
We invested around 1.7bn over the year, part of a 6bn programme to 2016-20, in strategic assets that will grow and diversify our business.
Id also note the discipline we showed in asset disposals and capital recycling.
The sale of a 16.7% stake in SGN, for a headline consideration of 621m, confirmed our ability to deliver value for shareholders by reshaping SSE.
But safety comes first at SSE.
In some ways, our performance may have been better than in the previous year but this was completely overshadowed by the death last October of a contractor working on an SSE project.
The loss of life at work is why the safety and wellbeing of our team must be the top priority.
In a year in which SSE increased its electricity tariffs in GB, and energy affordability is the priority for regulators and governments, how is SSE factoring this into decision making?
Ive said before that everything that SSE does is ultimately paid for by customers.
As a group of energy businesses we must always remember how important it is that people can afford to pay their bills.
The energy sector in general, and the cost of energy in particular, will always be under political and regulatory scrutiny.
So we have to ensure energy affordability is central to our decision making in each business, and thats why our focus on controlling costs and operating efficiently is so important.
Its also why we engage constructively with governments and regulators to ensure a balance in delivering reliable and low carbon energy as costeffectively as we can forcustomers.
I was pleased that we were the The energy market continues Has the macro-economic and first major UK company to measure the to change at a rapid pace, and regulatory risk to SSE escalated economic value of the skills and capabilities innovation and competition due to Brexit and calls from the of the people we employ: and are updating are driving this change.
Is SSEs Scottish Government for a second this.
We did this principally to give us the strategic framework still the independence referendum?
insights our team needs into how to manage right one in this rapidlyPolitics, regulation and compliance is one our most critical resource the people who developing sector?
Whilst these events work for SSE.
Weve put considerable Sector changes mean that to succeed in dont present an immediate risk to how we thought into our people and getting the the future SSE will have to evolve and adapt, serve customers or our investment plans, right culture at SSE.
This is about attracting as it has in the past.
Our strategic framework the level of risk could increase if political talent, investing in a pipeline of apprentices is consistent over the long term and allows uncertainty leads to a prolonged period of and young people, and building an inclusive us to exploit opportunities, as well as mitigate legislative or regulatory volatility.
Whenever and diverse workforce who will achieve our risk.
It has also seen us undertake some I speak to government I always advocate strategicaims.
innovative projects, including our distribution for as much stability in the operating business trialling more active network environment as can be achieved.
Our Is the commitment to the dividend management on Orkney, to prepare it balanced business model is designed, sustainable in the years ahead?
for an increasingly distributed and flexible amongst other things, to provide underlying Yes.
Annual dividend increases, in line energy system.
Our Wholesale business resilience when there is regulatory with RPI inflation, remains our first financial is involved in the testing of wind turbines uncertainty.
I do think as well as risks there objective.
Our strategic framework and that are larger, more efficient and capable will be opportunities emerging in this opportunities for growth mean we can of supporting offshore wind projects in changing environment and we need to deliver a full-year dividend increase that deeper waters, such as the Beatrice offshore identify them.
keeps pace with RPI in 2017 18 and in the wind farm.
Our strategic framework gives subsequent years.
us the foundations from which to innovate, What do you expect to be the whilst providing great service to our consequences for the energy What are your personal priorities customers, and invest for the future.
sector of the UK General Election?
for 2017 18 and the period Energy was a prominent issue when the to 2020?
How are SSEs capital expenditure election was called.
During it, SSE issued a We know that 2017 18 will present challenges and investment plans to 2020 five-part manifesto with a series of proposals and changes.
But thats a fact of life in the progressing?
for building a productive and sustainable energy sector.
Our focus will be on doing Were pleased with our investment portfolio.
UK economy and an energy sector that what we do well and building on our core Central to our strategy is building, owning works for customers.
Our long-term approach is to and operating assets that bring scale, diversity model is designed to ensure SSE is resilient maintain focus, be resilient and ensure we and balance to the business and any final to political changes for example, operating can adapt to external change.
So in the investment decisions for such assets are profit from GB household energy supply coming years, well focus on securing determined by the need to secure returns comprised around 15% of overall operating maximum value from our portfolio of that are clearly greater than the cost of capital, profits in 2016 17.
We clearly recognise the Wholesale assets and investments, achieving enhance earnings and support the delivery role of government and regulation in the further efficiencies and customer service of annual dividend increases that at least energy sector, but Id caution that intervention improvements in our Networks businesses keep pace with inflation.
We invested around in a changing market requires a clear objective and giving our Retail and Enterprise customers 1.7bn in 2016 17.
Over the four years 2016-20 with broad support and careful consultation the products and services they need.
In all this were on course to invest around 6bn.
on the principles and the detail.
This belief will our commitment will be to provide long-term This strategic investment is largely in assets form the basis of our approach to working value for customers and shareholders.
that are either  or with the UK government and members of government mandated, such as renewables.
Parliament in the years ahead.
This will further transform the SSE Group and support earnings and our commitment to How has SSE invested in the people dividendgrowth.
and culture for future success?
Alistair Phillips-Davies This is a critical area for us.
Our sector is Chief Executive facing challenges in terms of its diversity, May 2017 age profile and skillset.
We have to therefore Our strategic priorities to 2020 The safe and efficient operation The disciplined investment in Constructive engagement of assets and providing the new assets, or the upgrading with regulators and legislators energy products and services of existing assets, to support to advocate for clarity and that customers rely on.
and maintain the balance of stability, where possible, in the the business.
regulatory framework for all three business segments.
