STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Chief Executives Review Delivering on our strategic objectives We continue to perform well and to build a stronger business Javed Ahmed, Chief Executive with volume growth in all regions except North America where growth remained challenging.
Key highlights SPLENDA Sucraloses adjusted operating profit was Strong Group financial and operational 30 million higher as it benefited from lower costs performance from a single production facility and a one-off Bulk Ingredients delivered particularly inventory sell-down.
Food Systems adjusted good results operating profit was 19 million lower with a Speciality Food Ingredients performed well, significant decline in Europe where sales were with continued New Products growth but a constrained by a consolidation of our blending sites, significant decline in Food Systems which took longer than expected, and a credit issue Strong balance sheet and cash generation which restricted access to the Russian market.
Improving dividend cover Sales of New Products, which represent products in Continued progress towards 2020 Ambition the first seven years after launch, grew by 22% in the year.
Sales from New Products have grown by a compound average growth rate of 43% over the past Overview of Group performance five years.
Tate & Lyle delivered a strong performance in Bulk Ingredients had a particularly strong year the year.
Both business divisions delivered profit with adjusted operating profit increasing by 54% growth with Bulk Ingredients delivering particularly 32% in constant currency at 129 million.
This good results, driven by excellent commercial performance was driven by strong commercial execution and solid manufacturing performance.
execution, good US bulk sweetener demand, robust Adjusted profit before tax increased by 40% 20% in margins, and solid manufacturing performance constant currency to 271 million.
Movements in across the plant network.
The relatively wellforeign currencies, especially the strength of the US balanced North American corn wet milling industry dollar against sterling, increased adjusted profit also benefited the business.
Our joint-venture businesses performed well with Speciality Food Ingredients performed well with profits 16% higher at 32 million.
adjusted profit up 21% 5% in constant currency at Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing 181 million.
The business, excluding SPLENDA operations increased by 37% 16% in constant Sucralose and Food Systems, delivered an increase in currency to 47.1p.
adjusted operating profit of 8% in constant currency, www.
com 15 Chief Executives Review continued Marketplace The markets we operate in Cash generation during the year was excellent.
Adjusted free cash flow was more than three times higher than the prior Speciality Food Ingredients year, and more than covered the dividend.
Net debt was 18 million higher at 452 million, with a 57 million adverse Ingredients and solutions which add impact from foreign exchange translation offsetting the strong specific functionality and value to free cash flow generation.
customers products Overall, the Groups performance in the year was extremely encouraging.
With both divisions performing well, higher The global market for speciality food ingredients is large operating margins, and a robust balance sheet, the Group is and growing.
well positioned for the future.
Size Annual growth Strategic progress 1 2 We have a clear corporate strategy which we have executed c. US$51bn c. 4-5% against in a disciplined way since the 2011 financial year to focus on growing Speciality Food Ingredients supported by steady earnings from Bulk Ingredients.
During the year we We focus on three areas of this market.
continued to make good progress against this strategy.
Sweeteners Consumers across the world are increasingly looking for Products include high intensity sweeteners e. g. SPLENDA healthier nutrition, particularly given the rising incidence of Sucralose and speciality sweeteners e. g. KRYSTAR obesity and diabetes worldwide.
Our Speciality Food Crystalline Fructose, DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose.
Ingredients business is well-placed to help our customers Texturants meet these demands, as our ingredients help to reduce sugar, Products include corn-based starches e. g. REZISTA, calories and fat, and also to add fibre, in consumer products.
clean-label starches e. g. CLARIA and our range of We are steadily bringing new products to market to address stabiliser systems.
these consumer trends, both through in-house innovation and Health and wellness by establishing strategic partnerships.
During the year, we Products include dietary fibres e. g. PROMITOR Soluble Fibre, expanded our range of texturants with the launch of CLARIA PromOat Beta Glucan, STA-LITE Polydextrose, and oat protein.
Bliss, a clean-label starch which provides great taste and 1 IHS 2014: Speciality Chemicals update Program: Food Additives: Leatherhead texture to products such as dairy desserts and chilled ready 2014: The Global Food Additives Market: and other sources.
We also developed our sweetener range with a new 2 Leatherhead: LMC International: Company analysis: data as at 2013, five year crystalline version of DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose, a rare sugar CAGR 2009-2013. with a similar taste and texture to sucrose but only a very small fraction of the calories.
Overall, we invested 37 million in research and development in the year, an increase of 8 million, part of which was driven by foreign currency translation.
Bulk Ingredients In March 2017, we announced an exclusive partnership with Sweet Green Fields, one of the largest fully integrated global High volume ingredients which stevia players, to distribute their innovative stevia ingredients, are largely undifferentiated and and bring their leading stevia-based sweetening solutions to compete primarily on price our customers worldwide.
Early customer interest in our expanded stevia offering has been encouraging.
Bulk Ingredients primarily serves the North American market.
We continue to see strong growth in emerging markets.
During the year, we increased our applications and technical service resources in Latin America and Asia Pacific, and % of Bulk Ingredients profit from North America our sales and applications resources in the Middle East.
90% Driving efficient operations Our vision and strategy We manage Bulk Ingredients for steady earnings.
In the mature Our vision is to become a leading global provider of markets this division operates in, we aim to deliver this by: speciality food ingredients and solutions.
optimising product mix and margins Our strategy is to deliver this vision through: maintaining capital expenditure discipline A disciplined focus on growing our Speciality Food continuously driving productivity and efficiency Ingredients business maintaining a mix of tolling and non-tolling contracts deeper customer engagement reducing exposure to commodity markets where we can, by continuous innovation dampening volatility by using conservative hedging strategies: stronger positions in higher-growth markets actively managing co-product sales: and investing in the corn Driving Bulk Ingredients for sustained cash elevator storage network to secure raw material supply.
generation to fuel this growth.
16 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Global consumer trends Meeting consumer demand The market for speciality food ingredients is Our ingredients and solutions help our customers being driven by a number of global meet growing consumer demand for healthier consumer trends.
We leverage our deep technical expertise and understanding of categories such as Healthier dairy and beverages to provide our customers with With obesity and diabetes on the rise worldwide, the solutions they need.
consumers are looking to reduce calories, sugar Sugar and calorie reduction and fat, while also adding beneficial ingredients to food and drink such as fibre and protein.
Through our wide portfolio of speciality sweeteners and fibres, we create solutions that Clean-label reduce sugar and calories without compromising Consumers want to understand the ingredients the sweetness and texture consumers want.
Increasingly, they are Enrichment choosing products with labels with ingredients that they feel are less processed, or they perceive Our diverse portfolio of fibres offers a range of to be simpler or natural.
nutritional and functional benefits from fibre enrichment to sugar and calorie reduction Free from while delivering exceptional digestive tolerance.
Intolerance to certain ingredients is leading to Texture increased demand for allergen-free foods such as gluten-free and dairy-free.
Our range of starches provides key functionality for foods such as thickening, shelf-stability and On the go fat reduction, while still providing the texture People have busy lives and sometimes consumers want.
convenience can come at the cost of healthy Stabilisation nutrition.
Consumers are demanding food and drink that offers fast, grab-and-go nutrition, Through our in-depth knowledge of ingredients but which also makes it easier to make and complex food systems, we create customised healthier choices.
stabiliser systems highly functional ingredient blends that ensure products maintain stability and appetising texture throughout their shelf life.
Main product lines Key market factors Bulk Ingredients main product lines largely serve Industry capacity utilisation mature and consolidated markets.
Our bulk ingredients are produced mainly at four large corn wet mills in the US and two smaller mills Bulk sweeteners in Europe.
Supply demand balance is a key driver of Bulk sweeteners provide sweetness and profitability in the US corn wet milling industry and mouthfeel to regular carbonated soft drinks, the industry was well balanced in the year.
confectionery and other foods and drinks.
Corn market Industrial starches The US corn wet milling industry processes around Industrial starches strengthen and improve the 10% of the US corn crop.
Recent harvests have been surface conditions of paper and cardboard and strong with corn inventory high and prices relatively are also used in adhesives for building products.
Corn is largely a pass-through cost.
Acidulants Carbonated soft drinks Acidulants are used mainly to enhance flavour Demand in the US for regular carbonated soft and preserve foods, beverages and drinks, the main end-market for our bulk pharmaceuticals.
1 sweeteners, declined by 0.7% in the year.
Commodities Re-deploying capacity Commodities include co-products such as corn We seek to manage the long-term gradual decline gluten meal and corn gluten feed sold mainly as in demand for our bulk ingredients by steadily animal feed and corn oil.
re-deploying primary capacity in our corn wet mills We also produce some ethanol at our Loudon, to support growth in Speciality Food Ingredients.
Tennessee facility as a means of optimising the production balance and efficiency.
1 Source: IRI, Total US Multi Outlet and Convenience Stores.
com 17 Chief Executives Review continued 2020 Ambition We are also in the process of more than doubling the size of our applications laboratory in Singapore.
This facility will provide customers with access to more sophisticated analytical equipment and services, including pilot-plant scale foodprocessing equipment, to enable them to perform product trials on site.
Significant benefits have been realised from the re-alignment of the SPLENDA Sucralose business we undertook in the prior year.
The implementation of a rigorous value-based approach to securing volume, and the consolidation of production into a single facility in Alabama, US, has helped to increase profitability and position sucralose as a more focused, low-cost and sustainable th business.
During the year, we also celebrated the 40 anniversary of the discovery of sucralose.
This ingredient has helped to reshape the global sweetener landscape by enabling our Mix of Group profits customers to create a wide range of great-tasting, low-calorie foods and beverages for consumers.
Since its discovery in 1976, the amount of SPLENDA Sucralose produced by Tate & Lyle has been enough to replace over 19 million tonnes of sugar in the human diet, which is the equivalent of removing 77 trillion 70% calories from consumers diets globally.
Food Systems had a challenging year as we worked through from Speciality Food Ingredients some key changes.
In Europe, we consolidated our blending 1 facilities from three sites to two to lower our cost base going Adjusted operating profit forward.
We also refocused our site in Germany on applications and solutions development for customers.
In China, we decided to simplify our go-to-market approach by selling our interest in 30% Bulk Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd. back to our Ingredients partner.
Together, these actions will allow Food Systems to serve its customers better and re-position the business for future growth.
Bulk Ingredients had a very strong year.
The decision and steps 20% Europe, 70% Speciality Middle East taken in 2015 to re-align our European business and focus Food Ingredients and Africa Bulk Ingredients predominantly on the relatively more stable North American market have served us well.
Our objective is for Bulk Ingredients to deliver steady earnings from the core 1 Speciality Food Ingredients SFI profit includes SFI share of profit business and to dampen volatility in Commodities, and we after tax of joint ventures and associates.
Group profit is before continue to take the necessary actions to prosecute this Central costs and interest, but includes share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates.
We have evolved our operating model to provide a greater focus on product mix and margin management, and we remain focused on tight cost control.
We continue to invest in our plant network for long-term efficiency gains, and to drive productivity across our broader supply chain network.
Progress in year ended 31 March 2017 Progress against 2020 Ambition In November 2015, we communicated our 2020 Ambition to further strengthen our business with three key outcomes.
Mix of Group profits Our progress against this ambition is set out opposite.
By way of summary: 54% of the Groups adjusted operating profit came from Speciality Food Ingredients.
While profits from Speciality Food Ingredients are growing broadly in line with our expectations, 54% profits from Bulk Ingredients are well ahead of our expectations.
The very strong performance by Bulk Ingredients in the year has resulted in the overall percentage Adjusted operating profit of Speciality Food Ingredients of profits from Speciality Food Ingredients being lower than increased by 5% in constant currency in the year.
However, exceptionally strong profit growth from Speciality Food Ingredients sales from Asia Pacific and Latin Bulk Ingredients 32% higher in constant currency America grew by 6% in constant currency and have meant that Speciality Food Ingredients profits were increased to 23% of the core businesss sales.
54% of Group profits, down from 60% last year.
We continue to see good momentum from New Products with sales of US$105 million, 22% higher than last year.
18 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 2020 Ambition Broaden geographic mix of Speciality Increase sales from 2 3 Food Ingredients sales New Products to 30% US$200m from Asia Pacific and Latin America Speciality Food Ingredients sales New Products sales $200m 30% Asia Pacic and Latin America 50% North $69m America 20% Europe, Middle East and Africa 2015 2020 2 Percentage of sales excluding SPLENDA Sucralose and 3 New Products are products in the first seven years after launch.
Progress in year ended Progress in year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 Geographic mix of Speciality Sales from New Products Food Ingredients sales US$105m 23% Sales in Asia Pacific and Latin America grew by 6% Sales from New Products grew by 22% in the year in constant currency in the year.
or by US$19 million to US$105 million.
Sales in these two regions represented 23% of Good growth was delivered across all three Speciality Food Ingredients core businesss sales, platforms of texturants, sweeteners and health up from 21% last year.
com 19 Chief Executives Review continued Executive Committee Responsible for delivering our strategy I remain very encouraged by our and achieving business results progress as we continue to build a stronger business with higherquality earnings.
Safety As reported in our half-year results announcement, we have launched an extensive Group-wide review of our safety processes and procedures, supported by an independent external expert consultancy with deep experience in global safety assessments.
This follows an industrial accident at one of our grain elevators in the US in September 2016 when sadly one of our employees and a local farmer died.
We expect the review will conclude in the first half of the 2018 financial year.
Javed Ahmed For the 2016 calendar year, in relation to our two main Chief Executive safety-related key performance indicators, the Recordable Incident rate remained at 0.76 and the Lost-work Case rate Javed joined Tate & Lyle as Chief Executive in October improved from 0.16 to 0.11.
He brought extensive international experience and are not included in these rates.
from a wide variety of senior management roles at Reckitt Benckiser plc in North America, Europe, People Australia and New Zealand.
He also worked for Our employees across Tate & Lyle bring a huge amount of Procter & Gamble and Bain & Co. prior to joining Reckitt Benckiser.
energy and passion to work every day, and I would like to thank them for their hard work and dedication.
Our strong performance this year is a testament to the talent and the commitment of our people and I look forward to working with them in the next financial year as we continue to execute our strategy.
Outlook Turning to the outlook, we are confident the Group will continue to make underlying progress in the 2018 financial year.
Summary Nick Hampton Overall, our results for the 2017 financial year reflect strong delivery against our strategy and towards our 2020 Ambition.
Chief Financial Officer I remain very encouraged by our progress, as we continue to Nick joined Tate & Lyle as Chief build a stronger business with higher-quality earnings, capable Financial Officer in September 2014. of delivering sustainable long-term growth.
He held a number of senior roles over a 20-year career at PepsiCo, including as PepsiCos CFO Europe: Javed Ahmed President, West Europe Region: Chief Executive and Senior Vice President 24 May 2017 Commercial, Europe.
20 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Joan Braca President, Speciality Food Ingredients Pierre Schoumacher Jim Stutelberg Joan joined Tate & Lyle in 2013 as President, Global Operations President, Bulk Ingredients Senior Vice President and General Pierre joined Tate & Lyle in 2000 from Manager, Asia Pacific.
She was then Jim joined Tate & Lyle in 2014 from Procter & Gamble.
During his career appointed President, Speciality Food Pennsylvania-based PPG Industries at Tate & Lyle he has held a number Ingredients from November 2014.
Inc. where he led its Americas of senior operational and commercial Prior to joining Tate & Lyle, Joan Automotive Coatings business.
roles, and was appointed President, spent nearly 20 years with Rohm Prior to that, he spent 16 years with Global Operations, in November 2014. and Haas Company in a variety of Dow Corning Corporation in a variety operational and general management of senior marketing, sales and roles in the US, Europe and general management roles, including Asia Pacific.
five years working in Shanghai, China.
Rowan Adams Rob Luijten Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs Human Resources Rowan joined Tate & Lyle in 2001 from National Westminster Bank.
Rob joined Tate & Lyle as Executive Robert Gibber During his career at Tate & Lyle he Vice President, Human Resources has held a number of senior roles Executive Vice President, in 2010.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle, and was appointed Executive Vice he was Human Resources Director General Counsel President, Corporate Affairs in for Africa, Middle East and Asia for Rob joined Tate & Lyle in 1990 as a November 2014 with global BG Group PLC.
He also spent ten commercial lawyer having started responsibility for public affairs, years with GE Plastics in a number his career in private practice.
He was communications and risk.
of senior human resources roles in appointed General Counsel in 1997 both Europe and Asia.
and was Company Secretary between 2001 and 2012.
Rob has global responsibility for legal, regulatory affairs and quality.
