Overview Chief Executives review FY2017 was another important year for 3i.
Our Private Equity and Infrastructure businesses performed well and we simplied the Group by selling our Debt Management platform.
Our efforts over the last few years in reshaping the portfolio mean we are now able to focus on active asset management and origination.
We continued to make very strong A measure of the success of these changes of its international expansion strategy.
Our financial can be seen in this years financial results: Store openings increased from 52 in 2012 results were excellent and underpinned 3i generated a total return on shareholders to 197 in 2016 and Action now has more bystrong fundamentals.
funds of 1,592 million, or 36% 2016: 824 than 890 stores and annual sales in excess million, or 22%, ending the year with a of 2.6 billion.
The compound annual Our Private Equity investment portfolio NAV per share of 604 pence 31 March growth rates for sales and EBITDA since hasundergone a major transformation 2016: 463 pence.
Our results include the 2012 exceed 30%, like for like growth rates over the last five years as we have sold benefit of currency movements: 71% of are 6%7% per annum and cash ow is many of the weaker, legacy assets and the Groups assets are denominated in strong.
This sector-leading performance made new investments in good quality euros or US dollars and we generated a under our ownership has already resulted companies at attractive prices.
297 million gain 2016: 143million gain in cash distributions to 3i equivalent to Our Infrastructure team has also been from the weakness of sterling in the year.
busy and assembled a sizeable economic Cash realisations, including the proceeds There is still plenty of runway for expansion infrastructure portfolio for 3i Infrastructure from the sale of Debt Management, were at Action and potential for further rapid plc 3iN, as well as pursuing a number strong at 1,308 million and we saw a good value growth for 3i.
Action has been of new initiatives to broaden our step forward in cash investment to 638 welcomed in each country it has opened investment capability.
We nished theyear with net cash in and its store opening programme of 419 million 31 March 2016: 165 million now covers six countries and more new We sold our Debt Management business and have announced a further good lift in stores are planned in 2017 over 2016. for 270 million during the year, as we were the pay out to shareholders.
Action is also set to open its fourth not confident that this business would and fifth distribution centres in 2017. meet our return requirements and justify A high quality Private Equity Such material growth requires strong its relative complexity in a more onerous investment portfolio operational capability and Action, with regulatory environment in the future.
support from 3i, is focused on managing Our plan with new Private Equity the risks associated with this rapid investments is simple, but the execution growth by enhancing its teams and other is not and requires diligence, discipline resources in logistics, direct sourcing, and good judgement.
We aim to double IT and inventory control to meet the the earnings of new investments under increasing demands ofthe business.
our ownership through operational improvements, international growth and But 3i is not just about Action.
This year, 93% portfolio we have constructed in recent ofour portfolio companies by value grew years, our 201316 vintage, produced a their earnings 2016: 84%.
gross investment return of 29% in FY2017, and is already a top quartile performer, Action was the strongest performer valued on a multiple of1.7x 31 March again: it is a very special company and a 2016: 1.5x.
As a fast growth, disruptive retailer, Action has been transformed by the successful execution 04 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation The performance of Scandlines has In August 2016, we became aware We completed new investments in accelerated since our further investment of accounting irregularities at Agent BoConcept, Schlemmer and Ponroy in 2013.
We expect further delays to the Provocateur which had concealed its true Sant together with a further investment competing Rdby Puttgarten tunnel financial position and lack of liquidity.
in Q Holding to support its acquisition of project, while the business continues to We wrote down the investment to nil Degania in FY2017.
A German investment, generate good levels of cash ow and and the business was subsequently sold Lampenwelt, and a Dutch investment, earnings growth.
through an administration process, with Hans Anders, were announced in March the proceeds being insufficient to return 2017 and April2017 respectively and A fundamental part of our investment any value to 3i, resulting in a total writeshould complete by the end of June 2017. strategy is to facilitate the international down in the year of49 million.
We also announced an investment in expansion of our portfolio companies.
Since our investment in 2013, ATESTEO, In total, our Private Equity realisation the worlds leading drivetrain testing activity produced approximately A year of exceptional services provider to the automotive 1 billion of cash proceeds this investment activity industry, has increased the utilisation year 2016: 718 million at good of its testing facilities in Germany and return multiples and we now own in Infrastructure expanded its Chinese footprint.
As a result, aleaner, higher-performing portfolio Our Infrastructure business has its Chinese capacity has doubled and of37assetsand threequoted stakes achieved good growth since 3iNs sales have increased by more than 100%.
2016: 47 assets and five quoted stakes.
change of strategy and update to its The outlooklooks promising, with further Our permanent capital is a distinct return target, announced in May 2015. expansion in China and North America competitive advantage.
It ensures we Although the infrastructure market is in progress.
canbe exible and opportunistic and it is very competitive, particularly for larger Aspen Pumps, Audley Travel, Basic-Fit, a fundamental aspect of our differentiated economic infrastructure assets, 3iNs Q Holding and Euro-Diesel also performed strategy.
It enables us to hold assets for revised investment strategy enabled the well, with strong, organic earnings growth.
longer periods if we believe that there business to compete with confidence for However, it is inevitable that there will is potential for additional value creation.
assets that tted its current mid-market be some challenges in any broad-based This is particularly important in an remit.
We advised 3iN on 479 million Private Equity portfolio and our high economic environment where there are of new investments in total in the year street retailer, Christ, suffered from limited opportunities for attractive new and have recruited selectively to ensure declining footfall.
that we have the strength and depth to manage the investment portfolio, as well As mentioned earlier, we have refocused We are well established in continental as boost origination.
our model and have largely exited the Europe and were the first private equity To support this expansion, we maintained older and often minority investments that rm to set up a number of ofces across our 34% share of 3iN in its June 2016 we invested in before the strategic review Europe.
Our brand and local investment capital raise, the proceeds of which have in 2012.
Many of these assets have required teams are held in high regard in these since been fully invested.
The 3iN shares a great deal of asset management.
Some, markets and we enjoy good visibility have performed strongly, generating but not all, have been a significant drag on overthe deal ow in our chosen sectors.
atotal shareholder return of 16% in the the value growth of our portfolio over the As the requirements of managing the year 2016: 13%.
older assets have diminished, we have been able to source and complete more new investment opportunities.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 05 Overview Chief Executives review continued Over the last year, we have been working Continuing to focus Outlook on a number of new fund platforms, one on driving performance 3i is now performing as it should, with in North America and two in Europe, to careful investment and active asset Following our successful disposal of Debt broaden our capabilities and deal ow and management generating very strong Management we have a more streamlined complement our mandate as investment returns.
The broader environment investment capability, focused on Private adviser to 3iN.
remains volatile and challenging but we Equity and Infrastructure, and built on remain confident in our ability to deliver In Europe, we announced the launch of our proprietary capital foundation, with continued, good growth for shareholders.
a new 700 million fund, managed by 3i, a growing fund management capability We have strong investment capabilities in to purchase a portfolio of assets from the in Infrastructure.
The broader macroboth our divisions and our well-established EISER Global Infrastructure fund.
Post year economic back-drop has improved over international network, together with end, 3i invested 35 million in this fund, the last year and we see generally decent our proprietorial approach, give us real alongside two pension fund investors.
GDP growth ahead in our main markets competitive advantage.
Our Infrastructure business manages two of northern Europe and North America.
funds dedicated to operational PPP and We will avoid complacency and maintain However, the market for new investment renewables projects, one of which was our disciplined approach to investment remains challenging.
High asset valuations, coming to the end of its investment life.
and the costs of our platform, as well together with intense competition from In April 2017, we seeded a new fund with as maintaining our focus on the mid corporate buyers and other private substantially all of its remaining assets.
market where we see the most attractive equity investors, mean that maintaining 3i has committed up to 40 million to opportunities.
This approach should our selective and disciplined approach is this fund alongside a group of external underpin high returns for shareholders, essential in order to continue to generate investors and we expect a final close together with healthy cash dividends.
We launched our I would like to thank the 3i team for their North American Infrastructure business hard work and contribution to what has in March 2017 as a natural and key been an excellent year for the Group.
strategic extension of 3is established 3i is now a much more balanced and European platform.
resilient business, with a clear strategy anda well-funded balance sheet.
Simon Borrows Chief Executive 06 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017
