Chief Executive Officers Strategic Review However, our customer service metrics remain exceptional across all Steve Caunce of the countries in which we operate because we make it our mission Chief Executive Officer to care more and we continue to innovate to create the best customer experience for tomorrow.
This has helped us to continue to gain market share in our categories and countries, notwithstanding the challenging trading environment in the UK.
We remain as committed as ever to doing business The AO Way and continuing to deliver outstanding results for our customers, our people, our supplier partners and our investors.
Our online market-leading proposition and the solid foundation we have built in mainland Europe have positioned us well for the future.
Since year end we completed a share placing which will ensure our balance sheet is suitably capitalised to support our continued growth and increasing scale as we deliver our strategy.
We will continue to be bold but responsible on where we allocate our resource.
Im pleased to report on the significant strategic and operational progress made during the financial year as we continue on our mission In the past year we have demonstrated how to scale up in new to be the best electrical retailer in Europe.
This is the first time Im countries and how to expand and grow product categories.
When the reporting as CEO but, fundamentally, our approach has not changed time is right, we will replicate this approach in new geographies and and nor do I expect it or want it to: we remain relentless in pursuing categories.
We have strengthened our foundations for growth and in our goal to be the best electrical retailer in Europe and, through line with our strategy we will continue to focus on and drive AO focusing on our 4Cs strategy, we are confident we can deliver against own-branded sales.
Although our brand awareness has continued to that objective.
grow during the period, it remains our greatest challenge and the key to longer-term success: we must push to drive this metric.
We will We have a business model that differentiates us from our competitors, achieve this through highlighting and explaining why customers The AO Way, as set out on pages 36 and 37.
While we obsess about should shop with AO: its simply that we care more.
Going forward we each element, it isnt the individual components of this model which will continue to work hard to ensure that AO becomes a household give us our competitive advantage: its the way that we stitch them all name and the obvious choice when shopping for electricals.
together through our culture of caring more, making things easier for the customer and being exceptional in the moments that matter.
Thats Further details on our performance in the year under review are set what makes us different.
Our culture is absolutely crucial to us so, out in the next few pages.
Put simply, I am proud to say that it has been together with John, Im looking to protect it, nurture it, and further another great year for AO thanks to our outstanding team of people.
embed it across the Group, particularly in our newer territories.
We will continue to execute our strategy in the year ahead and focus on demonstrating to more customers that The AO Way is the best way.
Looking back at the year, we have strengthened our foundations for It is easy, it can be trusted and we simply care more.
In Europe, we opened our new regional distribution our differentiator.
centre in Bergheim, near Dsseldorf: we have built a state-of-the-art recycling facility in the UK, we have added new categories to our offering in both the UK and Europe and, in launching computing, Steve Caunce we have developed systems and infrastructure to operate a different Chief Executive Officer distribution model, which we can leverage for future category roll-out across territories.
Trading this year has been mixed particularly for our UK business.
In the first half of the year, in the UK, our investment in marketing and brand translated into encouraging sales growth with some tailwinds from stamp duty changes in March 16.
In the second half of the year, trading in the UK became more challenging as we began to feel the impacts of dampening consumer confidence following the UKs vote to leave the EU, subsequent price inflation and a slowdown in the UK housing market.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 20 20
