6 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1.
Building a Sustainable Business Chief Executives Statement In 2016 17, Johnson Matthey has continued to apply its Inspiring science is the basis of what makes Johnson unrivalled science skills, bringing technical solutions to our Matthey special.
Making sure that we are at the cutting edge customers and making a contribution towards a cleaner, and developing new technologies is essential.
The company has also reached an incredible take time and we take a long term view.
In 2016 17, we milestone 1st January 2017 marked the 200th anniversary invested 5.6% of our sales in R&D, an increase of 7% on since its foundation.
To maximise the value from this investment we are In the context of our long history, it has been a year more actively managing our innovation portfolio to ensure of further progress.
We have strengthened our business, that we allocate our resources to those opportunities with implemented our strategy and have delivered financial results the greatest potential.
in line with our expectations.
Global markets have remained tough, yet at constant currency and on a continuing basis, Leading in Sustainability 1 we grew our sales by 3% and our underlying profit before Ten years ago we set an ambition to make sustainability part tax by 1%.
In 2007, we launched Sustainability Underlying sales growth has come from the application 2017 to drive this.
The programme came to a close at the end of our leading technologies and weve continued to build for of March this year and we have achieved what we set out to do.
the future, investing a combined 440 million in capex and We have transformed the efficiency of our operations and R&D during the year.
In Emission Control Technologies, our reduced their environmental impact, cutting by half both our technological strengths helped us to deliver strong sales growth, carbon intensity and energy consumption relative to sales.
notably in Europe, as we provided customer focused solutions In 2016 17 we saved a further 25 million as a result of to meet increasing standards for emissions and consumer our continuous improvement programmes, bringing the total demand for cleaner air.
We have broadened our platforms, value generated since 2007 to 142 million.
Weve delivered in particular our pipeline of new active pharmaceutical improved solutions for our customers as 93% of our sales come ingredients which improve health and in high energy battery from sustainable solutions.
At the same time, weve created materials as we work to develop next generation technologies significant value for our shareholders, more than our doubling to enable the shift towards zero emission transportation.
Our cost saving programme has increased efficiency, primarily The most significant positive impact of Sustainability 2017 in Process Technologies and Fuel Cells.
Cash generation has has been on our culture.
That connection between Johnson improved through our disciplined management of working Mattheys science and the benefit to our planet and its people capital and as a result, we have a strong base on which to build.
struck a real chord with our employees around the world.
In a practical sense, employees across the group strive to run our 200 Years of Inspiring Science operations responsibly, uphold the highest ethical standards and I am extremely proud to be Johnson Mattheys Chief Executive safeguard their own safety and that of their colleagues.
as we celebrate our 200th anniversary.
This milestone comes Our commitment to health and safety has been unwavering at a time when the world is experiencing rapid change and during the year.
However, despite a number of group wide safety Johnson Mattheys reputation, built on integrity, world class initiatives and continued excellence in safety performance at science and investing for the long term, is a precious commodity.
many of our facilities, we had too many lost time accidents this I am pleased to say these foundations remain a focus in the year, and saw an increase compared with 2015 16.
the trend in 2017 18 is a top priority.
While protecting what has made Johnson Matthey successful for so long, we must continue to look forward.
An Evolving Business We have therefore taken advantage of this milestone to refresh Towards the end of 2016 17, we reviewed the groups strategy our brand so that our purpose and aspirations are clear and which reinforced that in order to enhance our performance, relevant to our current and future stakeholders.
Our new brand we must build a more connected and collaborative organisation.
identity Inspiring science, enhancing life encapsulates what Our objective is to leverage the entire breadth of our skills and we do best and highlights the hugely positive impact we have capabilities for the benefit of our customers, providing them on the world.
It will help us to build a stronger presence in our with solutions to their challenges.
markets, connect with more customers worldwide and attract and retain top talent, all of which are vital for our 3rd century of growth.
7 Robert MacLeod Chief Executive Our aim is to be truly customer centric and understanding our In Summary customers markets is key to achieving this.
To help us focus on our 1,3 Sales grew by 3% customers needs and on global priorities, we have restructured our 2 business to focus on four areas: clean air, efficient natural resources, 1% increase in underlying health, and new markets.
These better align to our customers markets and 3 profit before tax describe more clearly the positive impact of our products and services.
We continued to support Putting Our People First R&D with gross R&D investment up Our employees are our most powerful resource and without them we can 7% to 201 million not deliver our long term strategy.
We encourage our employees to reach their full potential, whatever their role.
We have programmes in place across the business to support career development and retention, as well as to improve diversity and inclusion.
Their talent, commitment to our customers and pride in working for the company is key to our growth.
However, as Johnson Matthey continues to grow and evolve, it is important we understand what our employees expect from us and how we can support them.
This year we undertook our first global staff engagement survey.
I was very pleased that 75% of our employees completed it and there were many encouraging results.
Of those responding, 85% said that we provide a safe working environment, 88% said they would speak up if they had any concerns around ethical behaviour and 70% feel their jobs provide opportunities to do challenging and interesting work.
However, the survey also highlighted a number of areas where we must do better, including on providing greater clarity on strategy and priorities, and we are actively working on this across the group.
Outlook As Johnson Matthey enters its 3rd century, we remain focused on sustainable growth through enhancing our existing market leading Building technologies and developing next generation technologies.
For the full year 2017 18, sales growth, at constant rates, is expected a solid platform for future growth to be broadly in line with the 6% growth delivered in the second half of 2016 17.
The combination of stronger sales growth, together with additional cost savings, is expected to be offset by comparison against the 2016 17 post-retirement credit and by higher non-cash pension charges in 2017 18.
Beyond 2017 18, our stronger business platform and operational momentum will deliver sustained sales growth and margin expansion, Read more about the performance of the aligned to our vision for a world thats cleaner and healthier.
group and its divisions on pages 26 to 46.
Read more about our strategy and how we are building a sustainable business on pages 8 to 23.
Robert MacLeod Chief Executive 1 Read more about our people on pages 54 to 59.
3 At constant currency in our continuing business.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
