Chief Executives Statement We are pleased with the sales performance this year, with growth across all areas of our business and market share gains in both Motoring and Cycling.
It is now 18 months since we launched the Moving Up A Gear strategy, aimed at modernising the business and consolidating our position as a specialist, service-led retailer in order to drive sustainable long-term growth.
In this report we set out the strong progress in the year, alongside good sales performance and continued market share gains.
Strategic Progress Jill McDonald Our goal is to be customers first choice for their life on Chief Executive the move and we will achieve this by being committed to Making Customers Journeys Better.
Our Group strategy has five key pillars: Putting Customers in the Driving Seat The underlying business investing in customer data and insight performance is strong and we capabilities to maximise the lifetime customer remain confident in the long-term value prospects for the Group.
Service in Our DNA embedding the focus on customer service Building on Our Uniqueness exclusive products, relevant innovation and unique partnerships Summary of Group Results Revenue of 1,095.0m was up 7.2%, with like-for-like Better Shopping Experience LFL growth of 2.7%.
Gross margin of 51.0% was 220 a seamless customer experience, online as basis points lower than the prior year, predominantly well as in store due to the impact of the movement in foreign currency Fit for the Future Infrastructure exchange rates.
Total operating costs before nonmoving from fixing the basics to improving recurring items rose by 5.0% reflecting planned efficiency and fulfilment investments for the Moving Up A Gear strategy and the first-time inclusion of the operating expenditure in On pages 16 and 17 we have set out a more detailed respect of the acquired Tredz and Wheelies businesses.
explanation of the Group strategy, our progress on each of these pillars during FY17 and the key areas of focus The increase in cost of goods associated with the for FY18.
depreciation in Sterling had an adverse impact of circa 14m pre-mitigation which more than accounted for Market Update the decline in profit for the year.
Underlying EBITDA was A full review and update of the markets in which we down 5.1% to 108.7m.
Underlying EBIT was 77.1m, operate is set out on pages 10 and 11. which compares with 84.5m in the prior year.
Underlying Alternative Performance Measures Profit Before Tax was 75.4m and Underlying Basic In the reporting of financial information, the Directors Earnings Per Share was 30.3p, down 7.5% and 8.7% have adopted various Alternative Performance Measures respectively.
Profit after tax for the year was 56.4m APMs.
These APMs are defined within the Key Performance Indicators table on page 18.
Free Cash Flow is defined on page 40.
4 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 4 6 7 2017 10:47:11 PM STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Cash generation remained strong, with Free Cash Flow The like-for-like growth in Retail was driven by strong of 37.7m.
Net Debt at the end of the year was up performances across each of the sub-categories of 38.0m at 85.9m, with a Net Debt to Underlying EBITDA bikes, Parts, Accessories and Clothing PACs and ratio of 0.8:1 versus 0.4:1 in the prior year.
PACs sales returned to growth for the first time is consistent with our previously stated intention to move in two years due to stronger attachment sales, new towards a debt target of 1.0x and reflects our acquisition products and a more disciplined approach to ranging, of Tredz and Wheelies in May 2016 for an initial cash using our improving customer insight to introduce a consideration of 18.0m, the 4.1m investment made in good, better, best hierarchy.
Bike sales were supported Tyres on the Drive Limited TOTD in January 2017 with by the relaunch of our mainstream, award winning a further circa 4m to follow in FY18 and the circa 20m ranges Carrera and Apollo as well as the launch of the special dividend paid in February 2017. new, exclusive Wiggins range, and growing demand for electric bikes.
Our credentials in kids bikes were The Board has recommended a final ordinary dividend validated by the public accreditation from Netmums of 11.68 pence per share FY16: 11.34 pence which, if during the year, and Boardman won a host of industry approved, would take the full-year ordinary dividend to awards including the prestigious BikeBiz bike brand of 17.51 pence per share, an increase of 3.0% on the prior the year.
Including the special dividend of 10 pence per share paid in February 2017, the full-year dividend per Tredz Wheelies performed strongly since acquisition share was 27.51 pence, an increase of 61.8% on the and we were also very pleased with the Cycle Republic prior year.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on performance, now trading from 15 shops and online.
We 25 August 2017 to shareholders on the register at the now have a unique balance in our offering, able to serve close of business on 4 August 2017. the lifestyle consumers through our Halfords stores and website, the growing commuter population through Retail Operational Review Cycle Republic and the enthusiast and elite segments Halfords Retail achieved a strong year of sales through both Tredz and Boardman Elite.
performance, with revenue up 8.0% to 938.4m.
LFL Service-related sales increased by 11.1%, driven in growth of 3.1% reflected Motoring LFL of 2.0% and particular by cycle repair and elements of motoring Cycling LFL of 5.1%.
Our service-related sales grew by fitting, such as 3Bs and roof boxes.
Although currently a 11.1% as we continued to consolidate our specialist, small part of the mix, our new 2Bs bulbs and batteries service-led retail proposition.
The LFL sales growth fitting for motorbikes and windscreen chip repair for is principally attributable to our growing service and cars were contributors to growth.
Our service capability services proposition, new products and ranges, better continues to be a key focus for us, with the Gears training trained and engaged colleagues and investments made programme providing depth and breadth of experience to modernise the business as part of the Moving Up A for colleagues, supporting our ability to establish Gear strategy.
Halfords as a differentiated, service-led specialist retailer.
Within Motoring, Car Maintenance revenues increased Online Retail revenue grew by 30.5% in total and 6.3% by 3.1% on a LFL basis, driven by good growth in sales LFL.
The importance of our store network and service of car parts and the fitting and sale of bulbs, blades overlay continued to be highlighted by the strength and batteries 3Bs.
Metal storage and hand tools of Click & Collect, with around 85% of Halfords Retail performed very strongly, particularly the increasingly online orders picked up in store.
This high proportion of popular Halfords Advanced range to which we added new click and collect continues to differentiate us from other products in the year.
We were disappointed with the 2.8% retailers, as our online business, instead of cannibalising decline in Car Enhancement LFL revenue, which was our bricks and mortar operation, drives footfall into our driven by the continued decline in the sat nav market.
stores, with over 80% of customers wanting advice or Partially offsetting this was strong growth in dash cams, fitting service with their purchase.
in-car connectivity equipment and car cleaning products.
Excluding sat navs, Car Enhancement LFL was up 3.7% We enter the new financial year with good momentum.
and sat navs now represent only 3% of Group sales.
We have published trading performance for the 15 Travel Solutions LFL revenues increased 7.9%, driven by weeks to the end of April 2017, which includes the 11 robust growth in roof bars and boxes, cycle carriers and weeks to the end of the financial year and the first 4 child seats: all of which benefit from our market-leading weeks of the new year.
We consider this period to be positions and friendly, highly-trained fitters.
more representative of performance because it includes Easter in both the current year and the comparatives.
Cycling sales improved by 5.1% on a LFL basis and Revenue for this 15-week period was up 3.9% on a LFL 18.2% on a total sales basis.
We took a significant step basis, comprising Motoring 0.9% and Cycling 11.1%.
forward in consolidating the Groups market-leading position, growing market share on a like for like basis as well as continuing to grow the Cycle Republic chain, which grew over 20% like-for-like in the year.
Tredz and Wheelies also performed strongly in the year, with revenue growing over 20%.
com 5 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 5 07 06 2017 16:36:08 Chief Executives Statement In January 2017 we entered into an operating agreement, Autocentres accompanied by the acquisition of a minority stake, with Autocentres revenues were up 2.4% and, on a LFL basis, TyresOnTheDrive.
com TOTD, a UK mobile tyre fitting up 0.6%.
Online sales were strong, with web booking business, to develop opportunities to leverage each revenues up 29.1%.
Consistent with our strategic others capability and expertise.
We see a number of priorities of Service in Our DNA and putting customers sales and cost synergies as well as the opportunity for in the driving seat, it has been a year of long-term Halfords to trial an innovative mobile delivery proposition investment in colleagues and creating an improved offer for motoring services, which fits squarely with our focus to customers.
on improving our service and convenience credentials.
To benefit colleagues, we have introduced a new We continue to investigate similar opportunities to technician pay grading system this year, to reward both expand our capabilities and strengthen our positions in teamwork and training.
We also continued to invest in our core markets.
training and development, with 86 apprentices taken on in the year demonstrating our commitment to developing Financial Targets and young talent and helping our colleagues learn longCapital Allocation Priorities lasting skills.
We now have 4 training centres open to We continue to apply our four key financial targets: develop our MOT and hybrid testers.
During the year our colleague turnover reached the lowest that it has been Grow sales faster than the markets in which we for almost 3 years, reflecting these investments as well operate: as the operational changes we introduced.
Hold group EBITDA margin broadly flat over the next To benefit customers, we have introduced Sunday and few years excluding the impact of FX : Bank Holiday opening and are also committed to training Grow the ordinary dividend every year with a dividend one technician in every centre in electric and hybrid car coverage of 2 times on average over time excluding maintenance by April next year.
We are well underway the impact of FX : and on this journey.
In addition, 16 centres were refreshed during the year and these refreshes included customer Net debt target of 1x Underlying EBITDA with a range service pods, TV screens, Wi-Fi, coffee and large viewing of up to 1.5x.
They resonated well with customers, enhancing In the Chief Financial Officers review we explain these the shopping experience.
targets in more detail and appraise our performance These operational changes were made for long-term against them.
benefit, but have been disruptive in the short-term During the year we made progress towards our debt and despite many positive developments we were target, moving from 0.4x to 0.8x through consistent dissatisfied with the financial results for the year.
application of our clear capital allocation priorities.
Accordingly, we are taking a number of actions including Central to our capital allocation policy is to maintain a a review of the operating model.
We see a presence in strong and prudent balance sheet, and we will use our the car servicing and repair market as important for the debt target as a guide for that.
Our priorities for use of Group in order to have a comprehensive suite of services cash will continue to be: firstly, capital investment to grow for the second life of the car.
We also see a good the business in line with previous guidance: secondly, to growth opportunity: we currently only have around a pay and grow the ordinary dividend every year: thirdly, 1.5% share of a highly fragmented circa 9bn market.
We for any appropriate M&A opportunities which may arise: will report our conclusions in due course.
and thereafter, any excess cash would be available for M&A Activity additional distribution to shareholders.
During the year we expanded the Groups capabilities in motoring and cycling with two modest, highly complementary investments.
In May 2016 we acquired Tredz and Wheelies for an initial 18.0m, with a further circa 5m to be paid in the first half of FY18.
Tredz is a UK-wide online retailer of premium bikes and PACs and Wheelies is the UKs largest provider of bicycle replacement for insurance companies.
This acquisition extends our presence in the online market for premium bikes, parts, accessories and clothing, and together with our rollout of Cycle Republic means we now address all major segments of the cycling market.
6 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 6 07 06 2017 16:36:09 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our FX headwind mitigation plans are well developed Summary and Outlook and gaining traction.
We are seeing the benefits of good We are pleased with the sales performance in the strategic progress on performance and have not so far last financial year, with growth across all areas of our observed any noticeable adverse impact of a change in business and market share gains in both Motoring and consumer sentiment on our trading.
Our focus on, and investment in, services was into account we anticipate FY18 profit to be in line with reflected in the significant growth of service-related current market expectations.
We are also pleased with the momentum building as we implement our Moving Up A Gear strategy.
There I would like to thank all colleagues for their fantastic is demonstrable progress across each of the five pillars contribution, support and commitment to Halfords.
Our of the plan and plenty more to come.
Whilst the currency customer-centric, service-led strategy has real traction movements have impacted on reported earnings, the and I have every confidence in the team to drive the underlying business performance was strong.
Moving Up A Gear strategy to the next level so that we continue to deliver further progress across the Group.
Our priorities for the financial year we are now in will include further improving and utilising our customer Jill McDonald data, consolidating our service and services credentials, Chief Executive continuing to invest in our colleagues, further investment 24 May 2017 in our online platforms and rolling out our successful new store refresh concept.
Read more on Our Strategy on We enter a challenging period from a macroeconomic pages 16 and 17 perspective, with uncertainty over consumer spending and Sterling depreciation bringing input cost headwinds.
However, we approach this on the front foot and from a position of strength as we have leading positions in fragmented markets and offer a customer driven, service-led proposition that differentiates us from competitors, both physical and online.
com 7 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 7 07 06 2017 16:36:12 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 8 07 06 2017 16:36:15 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our Strategic Report Our Marketplace 10 Our Business Model 12 Stakeholder Engagement 14 Our Strategy 16 Our Key Performance Indicators 18 Business Review 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 30 Chief Financial Officers Review 36 Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties 42 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 9 07 06 2017 16:36:17
