Chief Executive Officers statement Trust and transparency are key purchase drivers in todays consumer buying journey We have strived to create greater transparency and therefore trust in our marketplace, benefitting consumers, retailers and manufacturers alike.
Trevor Mather Chief Executive Officer AutoTrader has built on the momentum generated in its first year as a listed company to deliver a good financial and operational performance.
We have strived to create greater transparency and therefore trust in our marketplace, benefitting consumers, retailers and manufacturers alike.
This in turn continues to increase the value we deliver, making the car buying journey a simpler, more enjoyable and trusted process.
Summary of operating performance We have continued to deliver increased value for our retailer customers.
Our audience has grown, with increases in cross platform visits, minutes spent on our marketplace and full page advert views, consolidating the position we hold of having the largest and most engaged audience, as consumers increasingly interact with content such as retailer reviews, vehicle videos and new car editorial.
The bigger audience was accompanied by greater levels of stock.
Although the number of retailer forecourts was slightly down, this was predominantly in smaller and non-car related market segments.
The reinforcing nature of our network effect, when coupled with our pricing initiative for the year, saw us grow Average Revenue Per Retailer ARPR by162 to 1,546 2016: 1,384.
As a result, we have continued to grow revenue across all of our revenue streams Trade, Consumer services and Display 1 advertising, with growth of 9% in total.
This growth, combined with further cost reductions as we continue to focus on operating a simpler, leaner and more data-oriented business, resulted in an increase in Underlying operating profit of 19% to 207.2m.
Operating profit was up 18% to 203.1m, representing another good year for the business.
1 As the 2017 financial year was five days longer than the previous year, year-on-year percentages for revenue, costs and profits have been adjusted to reflect like-for-like growth.
Read more in our Financial review on page 26.
12 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our business model page 10 Key performance indicators page 22 Our strategy See page 16 to learn more We remain focused on delivering our strategy to be the UK and Irelands about how we are delivering leading digital automotive marketplace and help improve the processes of buying and selling vehicles for consumers, retailers and manufacturers alike.
priorities are regularly reviewed, and in 2017 we focused on six operating priorities which we felt would help us to achieve our strategic goals, and I am particularly proud of the progress the Group has made against these priorities.
To be the UK and Irelands leading digital automotive marketplace We will simplify our business We will continuously We will build a digital and integrate our assets improve and be brilliant culture that is values-driven, at everything that is customer focused and at our core data-oriented Operating priorities 1 2 3 Increase consumer audience, Promote trust and fairness Grow ARPR in a balanced, advert views and use of in the marketplace sustainable way by creating our valuation tools value for our customers The network effect model calls for the A trusted, fair and effective marketplace ARPR is our primary driver of revenue largest and most engaged audience in is core to the value we deliver to growth so the more balanced we can be order to drive the most advert views consumers, retailers and manufacturers, across price rises, stock listing growth, and ultimately sales of retailers stock.
who expect us as operator and product upsell and cross-sell, the more Offering useful services that help custodian of the marketplace to ensure sustainable our revenue will be in the consumers to buy and sell easily, like all participants benefit.
the valuation tool, is essential to keep our marketplace relevant.
4 5 6 Extend the penetration Enhance our relevance Operate a simpler, of products outside of our and value to manufacturers leaner and more core classified proposition data-oriented business Leveraging our core business to meet One third of new car buyers state that Making our processes and procedures the wider needs of retailers, helping them AutoTrader would be one of their first more intuitive and streamlined whilst to remove inefficiencies and become destinations when looking to buy a brand harnessing the data from our marketplace 2 more profitable, whilst providing new car therefore there is a huge will benefit both our customers and AutoTrader with a material source of opportunity to promote the relevance employees.
Creating a high-performing, future revenue growth and a closer and value of our marketplace with continuously developing business will relationship with its customers.
manufacturers and new car buyers alike.
unlock opportunities and provide a truly digital experience for all.
2 AutoTrader Brand Tracking research January February 2017, conducted by Acacia Avenue, March 2017.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 13 Chief Executive Officers statement continued Progress made against our Driving a more transparent operating priorities and trusted marketplace 4 Consumers spend around 11 hours Increase consumer audience, advert researching their next car online, visiting on 1 2% 5 views and use of our valuations tools average 2.2dealerships before they make their purchase.
They buy cars now as they growth in advert views During the year, our audience has continued do any other consumer goods, demanding 3 to grow: cross platform visits have increased transparency, ease and trust in the seller.
to 55.4 million per month 2016: 47.9 million : If sellers, in our case automotive retailers, 3 minutes spent on our marketplace have dont offer a transparent, easy and grown by 12% to a total of 582 million minutes 1,546 trustworthy experience, a consumer may on average per month 2016: 521 million, go elsewhere.
ARPR per month, up 162 2016: 1,384 and full page advert views increased to With this in mind, and to encourage retailers 247.4million per month 2016: 242.8 million to operate in a more transparent and trusted per month.
Extend the penetration of manner, we took the decision to restructure 4 We continue to embed our valuations with products outside of our core our packages so that they now include the trade and consumers alike, with a focus classified proposition products that will allow them to compete on becoming the benchmark for the industry, more effectively on the marketplace.
Our We have improved the number of managing and have delivered record numbers of new starter package includes products forecourts to c. 2,500 2016: c. 1,900 and valuations this year.
The number of valuations such as: Dealer Reviews, Part-Exchange moved more customers up the selling conducted by consumers rose by 25% to a Guide, 100 Images and Live Chat all tools package staircase.
However, as expected, total of 17.1 million 2016: 13.7 million, being that we see as a basic requirement for a retailing solutions revenue declined as particularly buoyed by the introduction of retailer to compete effectively in todays a result of discontinued revenue from our Part-Exchange Guide product.
We have five levels in pay-per-click PPC and search engine total, which progressively increase up to optimisation SEO products, as well as Promote trust and fairness Advanced and Premium, giving retailers 2 the re-platforming of our buying portal in the marketplace the opportunity to pay more for greater and website templates.
prominence and stand out when consumers Over the past 40 years, AutoTrader has search for cars on a desktop.
Greater become synonymous with buying and selling Enhance our relevance and value 5 prominence and appearing higher in the cars.
This heritage has allowed us to build a to manufacturers search results increases a retailers ability to trusted position which we have leveraged We have continued to grow our relevance to sell a car, faster, therefore increasing profit.
to become an advocate of transparency, manufacturers, reflected in higher Display delivering free consumer valuations, Creating price transparency advertising revenue in the year, with growth Part-Exchange Guide, Vehicle Checks, Our most recent launch, Price Indicator, of 16% 2016: 23% in spite of uncertainty in the Dealer Reviews, and most recently, Price directly addresses how retailers can provide lead up to the EU Referendum.
We continue Indicator, which benefits the users of our a greater level of transparency in their pricing to believe there is a significant opportunity entire marketplace.
to consumers, as it labels their stock with in display as we foresee further shift by a good price, great price or priced low manufacturers from traditional marketing Grow ARPR in a balanced, 3 indicator.
These indicators are powered by channels to digital channels, in line with sustainable way by creating value our valuations algorithm which has been the trends seen in other retail sectors.
Our for our customers developed to incorporate features such as priority is to become known to consumers, Through delivering increased value to our live market movements, specifications and manufacturers and agencies as a destination customers, we were able to successfully optional extras.
The market is constantly for new cars, and we have taken a significant execute our annual pricing event in the changing there are over 12,000 price step towards this in 2017 with the addition first quarter of the financial year.
The added changes every day on AutoTrader and nearly of over 6,000 brand new cars to our value of more consumers and more 20,000 cars are added or removed so rather marketplace, which we call virtual stock.
engagement has been complemented by than prescribe a definitive price position, an increase in physical stock on site, with the we advise retailers to price to the market so Operate a simpler, leaner and more 6 average number of cars growing to c. 450,000 they are more likely to see an indicator on data-oriented business 2016: c. 437,000 underpinned by good used their advert.
Over the year, we have operated in a lean car transaction numbers in the year.
We have and agile way and seen continued benefits seen marginally lower forecourts in the year, from the consolidation into two offices.
down 2% to 13,296 2016: 13,514, with fewer Despite continued investment in new non-car and small independent forecourts, products, developers and front-line sales offset partly by growth in franchise people, we expect to maintain our current forecourts.
Together with the gains made headcount, and become increasingly more on our product lever both within and outside 3 M onthly visits and monthly minutes data-oriented, reaching ever higher levels of our core classified packages, this enabled as measured by comScore.
4 AutoTrader Car Buyer Report, conducted us to grow ARPR by 162 to 1,546. by Gfk, May 2016.
14 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our business model page 10 Key performance indicators page 22 Promoting finance solutions Culture and people Outlook for 2018 for our retailers As part of the Groups digital culture, After a number of years of near uninterrupted Since gaining FCA authorisation, which incorporating an agile and lean working growth, the industry expects new car enables us to show the monthly borrowing ethos, we have continued to find ways of registrations to plateau or decline in calendar cost of a specific vehicle based on a retailers operating more efficiently whilst ensuring 2017, but anticipates greater used car preferred lender, over 1,300 retailers are that teams are truly data-oriented.
We transaction volumes as past observations benefitting from our finance product, initially therefore took the decision to assign suggest that the recent strong growth in new on a free of charge basis.
Finance is a key every team their own dedicated data car sales will continue to stimulate demand revenue stream for our customers, with over analyst, embedding data practices fully for used cars.
86% of new cars sold on finance and growth across the organisation.
Retailer forecourt numbers are set to be flat of 11% in the total value of finance agreements The Groups most valuable resource is our to marginally down, with overall stock levels 6 for used cars in the year, so this is a valuable employees, and the success of the Group expected to continue to grow.
It is also an added is to their credit.
And its having a truly improvement is expected to return to 2016 benefit for consumers as they will be able to diverse employee base that allows for growth levels at or above 130 per month, work out how to finance a specific car with a more rounded, creative and innovative with the majority of growth from the product the vehicle retailer rather than seeking organisation.
We respect and appreciate lever.
This reflects the recent bundling of finance elsewhere.
diversity and have made a conscious effort products into our new selling package levels Stocking and pricing to the market to educate and challenge attitudes.
Every as well as upselling of the new Advanced and In addition to driving trust and transparency one of our employees has participated in a Premium levels.
MTD will be reported as a in the marketplace, we advocate the power one-day workshop focusing on creating component of Trade revenue, but outside of of using data to stock and price vehicles common understanding of the concepts as Retailer revenue, and therefore will not correctly.
At year end, approximately 2,500 well as exploring their unconscious biases.
retailer forecourts 2016: c. 1,900, listing We have created networks for women, those Consumer services revenue momentum is 34% of trade stock, were using our data with families as well as common interest expected to remain at low single digit, whilst intelligence Managing products, i-Control or groups, to ensure employees feel supported Display advertising growth to be renamed Retail Check.
These products allow retailers by a network of like-minded individuals.
It is Manufacturer & Agency is expected to to utilise data that is relevant to them to help our ambition to become one of the most slow slightly from recent levels but remain them buy the most desirable stock, at the diverse and inclusive employers in the UK.
right price, so they can optimise stock turn and therefore profit helping them do Costs, taking into account MTD and business more efficiently.
share-based payments, are expected to increase at the rate of mid single digit with Generating value for manufacturers headcount remaining flat and salary inflation 12,000 When looking to buy a new car, AutoTrader set to rise in an increasingly competitive is spontaneously front of mind for almost price changes every day on AutoTrader market.
Spend on marketing as a percentage a quarter of consumers.
Coupled with an of revenue is expected to remain broadly increase of over 6,000 brand new virtual constant, with slightly higher overheads stock cars onto our marketplace, this has being offset by further, albeit smaller, savings increased sales leads and amplified the value in depreciation and amortisation.
20,000 we now offer to manufacturers and their networks.
We have also continued to build Operating profit will replace Underlying cars are added or removed daily key relationships with manufacturers and operating profit as our key performance their media agencies and we are working measure from financial year 2018, with with them to leverage our data and insight operating margins set to rise further.
to target buyers at the right time in their The Board is confident of delivering its car buying journey.
2,500 growth expectations in the coming year, Acquisition of Motor Trade Delivery retailer forecourts currently use our despite wider economic uncertainly fuelled In April 2017, we acquired Motor Trade data-driven Managing products, i-Control by the result of last years EU Referendum.
Delivery Limited MTD, an online real-time or Retail Check 2016: 1,900 We believe our strong market position, and marketplace for the trade delivery of vehicles continued ability to add value to consumers, across the UK, and welcomed its nine retailers and manufacturers will position us employees to the Group.
This acquisition is well to deliver growth.
an extension of our overall strategy of using digital technology to improve efficiencies Trevor Mather for our retailer customers.
Chief Executive Officer 8 June 2017 6 T he Finance & Leasing Association data for the 12months to March 2017.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 15
