Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our results reflect the significant resilient.
Overall, our EPRA net asset value was down just 0.4% to 915 pence per share.
Retail and Offices valuations were down 1.8% and 0.7% demand from both occupiers and respectively, with both sectors experiencing yield expansion in the first half but modest contraction investors for the places we create in the second half.
Our disposals provide clear evidence to support these valuations.
Our portfolio is virtually full with occupancy of 98%.
Despite the low level of vacancy, we signed 1.7 million sq ft of lettings and renewals in the year, on average 8.0% ahead of ERV.
In both the retail and office markets we are seeing an increasing focus on the best space in the best locations.
In Offices, where the result of the EU referendum created greater uncertainty, we have seen occupiers continuing to commit, but often after longer and more thoughtful decision making processes.
Our leasing performance was strong, with space let or terms renewed on 279,000 sq ft of space in the year, on average 1.4% ahead of ERV.
This included the remaining space at The Leadenhall Building and Marble Arch House.
At 7 Clarges Street, the office space was over 80% let just four months after launch.
In addition, we have 700,000 sq ft of space under offer or in advanced negotiations across our development pipeline.
This includes 102,000 sq ft at 4 Kingdom Street where almost 80% of the office space was under offer within a week of completion in April 2017, on terms ahead of pre-referendum ERVs, and 1 Triton Square where we are under offer on 310,000 Chris Grigg sq ft representing all of the office space on Chief Executive Officer the proposed redevelopment.
Our focus on London remains.
We expect London We have delivered good results despite to continue as a leading global city reflecting its 1 Underlying Profit growth challenges in our markets following the EU diverse pool of intellectual capital and reputation referendum.
Our markets were stronger for innovation, as well as its culture, language than many anticipated and our strategy, which and strong regulatory and legal framework.
7.4% positions us to benefit from long term trends, Our activity this year is testament to the quality to 390m 2016: 363m is delivering.
Rising consumer expectations, of our space which reflects the needs of todays the blurring of work and leisure time and the occupiers.
By providing space which reflects transforming impact of technology are the 1 the evolving way people are working and Valuation movement key themes shaping demand for our space.
blending their work and leisure time, we help Nearly one year after the EU referendum, we our occupiers attract and retain key talent.
see clear signs that the impact of these trends Our newest spaces are more flexible, catering -1.4% is accelerating, driving polarisation in our to the demands of big and small companies with 1 0.4% reduction in EPRA NAV per share markets.
Our leasing performance has been the option of shorter lease term arrangements.
to 915p 2016: 919p good, contributing to strong earnings growth: This year, we will be launching a branded flexible we have intensified our focus on where our workspace offer which enables us to capture placemaking expertise can enhance value, 1 Customer satisfaction incremental demand from the increasing attracting a broader range of occupiers: and we number of small businesses taking space in have sold well, providing the capital to exploit London as well as meeting a growing need opportunities we have within our portfolio.
8.1 10 amongst our existing occupiers for flexible 2016: 7.9 10 Our strategy is to differentiate our space space for specific projects and teams.
We have by providing places which reflect peoples already agreed our first flexible workspace changing lifestyles.
We use our placemaking letting at 2 Finsbury Avenue, extending our Community programme beneficiaries expertise to create great environments both relationship with an existing occupier at inside and outside our buildings creating Paddington Central for their digital team.
This underpins our In Retail, demand remained firm in the year, 35,600 focus on our multi-let retail properties and despite wider uncertainty for consumers and including jobseekers, apprentices our London campuses which are increasingly and schoolchildren 2016: 29,500 retailers alike.
We let more space on better mixed use.
terms to a wider range of occupiers than in the Investment markets were weaker in the first previous year.
This amounted to 1.3 million sq ft half, reflecting uncertainty both before and of leasing, on average 10.8% ahead of ERV.
1 Please see the Glossary for definitions.
after the EU referendum, but improved in Consumer spending was resilient in the months the second half as the UK economy proved following the EU referendum, but weaker sales 6 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 data in recent months suggests that consumers 10.9% at 37.8 pence per share.
The final of global companies tackling climate change.
are becoming more cautious with higher prices dividend payment will be 7.3 pence per share, We have launched Bright Lights, our skills impacting disposable incomes.
Retailers are also bringing the full year dividend to 29.2 pence per and employment programme helping a wide anticipating a more challenging environment, share, an increase of 3.0% and contributing to range of people into work within our industry.
with import cost inflation, higher business rates a total accounting return of 2.7%.
The Board That includes within British Land.
I was also in some areas and the National Living Wage is proposing a quarterly dividend of 7.52 pence particularly pleased to announce that we had putting pressure on margins.
per share or 30.08 pence for the coming year, updated our policy on Shared Parental Pay to a further increase of 3.0%.
The impact of recent provide equal enhanced benefits for all parents, These dynamics have increased retailers focus sales and expiries on future profits, our target one example of how we are promoting the on space which allows them to trade profitably payout ratio, and the uncertain environment development of a diverse and inclusive team.
Our Regional and influenced the Boards thinking, as well as the Local portfolio supports their strategy.
Our Outlook opportunities that we have within the portfolio Regional centres provide a broader offering, Looking forward, the picture is a mixed one.
to grow income over the medium term.
suited to larger, flagship stores and attracting The Brexit process has begun but uncertainty visitors from a wide catchment for a longer The impact of our investment activity has been will continue for some considerable time.
Our Local centres are convenient to reduce our proportionally consolidated LTV the UK economy has performed well since the and accessible and so they work well for click to 29.9% at March 2017 from 32.1% in March vote, we can expect more inflation and increasing and collect and more targeted shopping trips, 2016.
This falls further to 26.9% pro forma pressure on disposable incomes.
This will impact as well as providing a range of amenities for for the sale of The Leadenhall Building.
With consumer behaviour and retailer profitability.
Our placemaking activities our completed developments substantially London occupiers, particularly financial and our community engagement encourage let, and good progress on planning and pre-let institutions, are making contingency plans but new and repeat visits to our sites and this has discussions across the pipeline, we are there is a wide range of possible outcomes here.
driven continued outperformance in both well placed to exploit the optionality we have Our conversations with occupiers tell us that footfall ahead of benchmark by 240 bps and to create value and grow income.
We have a large majority continue to value London and retailer in-store sales growth 220 bps ahead.
identified near term and medium term believe in its place as a global centre, as we do.
opportunities that enable us to apply our We have made good progress on our Although we are seeing businesses taking development and placemaking expertise development pipeline.
As well as completions longer to commit and being more thorough in in progressing the delivery of our strategy.
at 4 Kingdom Street and the offices element of assessing options, we see polarisation of both Clarges, we committed to the redevelopment Last week, we obtained approval from occupier and investor demand accelerating with of 100 Liverpool Street at Broadgate and works the London Borough of Camden on the an increasing focus on the best quality space.
UBS have now redevelopment of 1 Triton Square at Regents Our results show that our space continues to be vacated 800,000 sq ft of space across the campus Place, where we are under offer on all of the attractive to occupiers and investors alike, with on completion of their occupancy of 5 Broadgate.
We expect to commit to this, as strong leasing across the portfolio, profitable Located at the gateway to our Broadgate well as refurbishments of 135 Bishopsgate and disposals and material outperformance on campus and adjacent to the new Liverpool Street 1 Finsbury Avenue at Broadgate in the coming our Retail operating metrics.
This reflects the Crossrail station, this development progresses months with an associated cost of c. 300 million.
continuing execution of our strategy, providing our vision to create a world class, mixed use space that responds to changing lifestyles Looking further ahead, our medium term pipeline destination at Broadgate providing a range of and really fulfils customers needs.
covers a range of uses, including office-led space, including significant additional retail development in London and retail and mixed use In this uncertain environment, we expect to and restaurants.
development across the country, notably Eden benefit from the resilience of our business, the Gross investment activity since the start of Walk in Kingston where we received planning quality of our portfolio and the strength of our the year totalled 2.0 billion and included the permission for our 538,000 sq ft mixed use finances.
We also look forward with cautious exchange of our 50% interest in The Leadenhall regeneration during the year.
We will maintain optimism as we believe that we can generate Building, which is due to complete later this an appropriate level of development risk: for incremental returns by allocating capital to month, reflecting our disciplined approach to our office-led developments commitment is development opportunities we have created, capital allocation.
This project has delivered likely to be influenced by the progress of pre-let whilst keeping risk at an appropriate level and annualised returns of 25% for us and our JV discussions.
We have a disciplined approach flexibility to respond to changes in our markets.
partner since our commitment in 2010 and to capital allocation and retain flexibility to demonstrates how our standalone office respond to the changing environment.
properties provide liquidity, allowing us to In addition, we are making progress at Canada develop and trade opportunistically.
On the Water where we are working closely with key retail side, we sold 881 million of single-let stakeholders including the London Borough of and non-core retail assets, including Southwark.
We held our fourth public consultation Chris Grigg Debenhams, Oxford Street for 400 million in May 2017 and are targeting submission of Chief Executive Officer and 226 million of superstores, reducing the a planning application around the end of this weighting of superstores within our portfolio financial year.
We have held discussions with to 4%.
Our 195 million of acquisitions were a wide range of potential occupiers and have focused on adjacencies to existing holdings, been encouraged by the response.
notably the New George Street Estate in Plymouth 64 million which complements British Land received the Queens Award for For more information on Our business Drake Circus and 10-40 The Broadway Enterprise in 2016, the UKs highest accolade model, see pages 10 and 11.
49 million, adjacent to Ealing Broadway.
One year on, we are continuing to deliver strong economic, social The net impact of our activity was a 7.4% For more information on our 2017 and environmental performance.
Our industryincrease in Underlying Profits to 390 million.
full year results presentation see leading energy and carbon reductions resulted Like-for-like income growth of 2.9%, together w w w. britishland.
com results in British Land being named European Sector with lower finance costs reflected in a further Leader in the Global Real Estate Sustainability reduction of our weighted average interest rate For more information on our approach to Benchmark for the third year running and in to 3.1%, has more than offset the impact of sustainability see w w w. britishland.
com the CDP Climate A List, we rank in the top 9% disposals.
Diluted underlying EPS was up sustainability British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Our priorities for the year ahead Customer Orientation Further develop customer insights Deliver technology driven innovations Right Places Deliver next steps of the Broadgate Masterplan Submit Canada Water planning Deliver flexible workspace offer Capital Efficiency Beat budget and achieve leasing targets Brexit is just one factor impacting our Recycle capital to improve returns markets.
Technology is at the heart of many far-reaching changes we are seeing.
In London, Brexit is accelerating the trends we are already responding to: how people work and live, the growth in creative and tech industries, and the relative decline in demand from traditional banks.
We continue to believe in London in the long term and are encouraged by the demand we are seeing from occupiers and investors for our buildings since Expert People the vote.
However, we have planned Promote an inclusive, performance with Chris Grigg for a period of uncertainty: we have driven culture moderated our speculative development Create a more customer focused risk and have continued to diversify our organisation office occupier base.
We have made good progress on leasing discussions and this puts us in a strong position to commit H ow is British Land to new developments to generate responding to BREXIT?
incremental returns, while keeping risk at a sensible level.
We run British Land to take advantage of long term trends but also to be resilient, Sales over the last year, including so we are positioned to operate in a range The Leadenhall Building, have reduced of market conditions property is a cyclical our leverage further putting us in a business.
The quality of the assets we strong position to take advantage of own and the strength of our finances investment opportunities we have serve us well as we face the potential created within our portfolio.
8 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Understanding these different stakeholders and the reasons why they prefer one location to another is what creating Places People Prefer is about.
Our values Our values underpin our daily working practices and set us apart.
They are: Our values Our values underpin everything we do.
They are: Do what is right, Work efficiently not what is easy as one team Do what is right, Work efficiently not what is easy as one team Make commercial Make things decisions that create happen Make commercial Make things long term value decisions that create happen long term value W hat makes British Land different?
It is the combination of all these things there longer too.
Our new Leisure Quarter which makes us different.
at Glasgow Fort comprises restaurants, We have a clear purpose at British Land to green public spaces and childrens pocket create Places People Prefer and this drives Y ou talk a lot about customer parks in which to gather, socialise and the business.
We have a relentless focus focus why is this important to play.
More car parking was also added on customers so we create the places a property investment company?
in response to shopper feedback.
This, they want: not just individual buildings but with other investments, is changing the external environments too its something Successful businesses understand and demographic of people shopping at I refer to as inside and out.
And, we have deliver what their customers want.
For the centre and the retailers we attract.
the scale and capabilities to deliver on us the interesting conversation has been In turn, footfall has continued to increase this long term approach.
defining who our customers are.
Its not and this is fuelling rental growth.
just the businesses who lease space at This means we invest heavily in data and our retail centres and offices but also We are changing our London campuses too.
insights to understand what customers the people who work in them, the people Broadgate, once home to predominantly really want, informing where we allocate our who choose to shop and spend time there large City financial institutions, is becoming capital.
This ensures our properties reflect and the local communities who live in a seven-day-a-week location.
It is the the changing way people live their lives and and around them.
Understanding these largest pedestrianised commercial space provide what businesses need to thrive.
different stakeholders and the reasons why in London and is responding to the changing they prefer one location to another is what needs of office occupiers, benefiting from By investing in well located schemes creating Places People Prefer is about.
its position in a dynamic part of London we can create great spaces alongside the and the opening of Crossrail.
The way we broad range of amenities, experiences and An outstanding place caters for all and are configuring buildings and offering more services people want as their work and often increases the connection between flexible space on more flexible terms mean home lives becoming increasingly blurred.
If your customers prefer your place we are already appealing to a wider range This is why our London campuses and then your business is well positioned for of occupiers.
By adding more restaurants, multi-let retail centres are becoming success.
Thats why we focus on long term shops and events we are broadening the more diverse and mixed use.
trends affecting how we work, shop and appeal well beyond the employees of the live and invest in our properties to ensure businesses based there.
Our operational scale, expertise and they remain relevant to our customers.
long term approach mean we have the capacity and skills to make the investments This means people not only want to be in For more on Chris views see required and to deliver the benefits.
and around our properties but want to stay w w w. britishland.
com CEOblog British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9
