Strategic report Chief Executives review HomeServe has had another very taking total access to 50m households.
good year with strong underlying Organic customer growth was 10% and, performance enhanced by foreign together with USP, customer numbers exchange tailwinds.
Affinity partner increased to 3.0m, up 28% on the prior households increased by 10m to year.
102m, with a significant increase in North America.
This is in addition We have seen good customer growth to 11% Group customer growth, and profit progression in our established with customer numbers now at businesses in France and Spain with 7.8m.
Statutory operating profit was customer numbers increasing 4% to up 20% to 104.7m, and adjusted 1.0m and 7% to 1.3m respectively.
The operating profit increased 22% to Group retention rate was strong at 82% 118.8m, both included a 10.3m FY16: 83%.
We invested 6.0m in the New Markets A solid performance in the UK delivered segment, as planned FY16: 5.9m.
Our over half of the Groups operating profit, Italian business established a joint venture while we also continued to invest in new with Edison Energia and we progressed partnerships, network capability, LeakBot our expansion into new countries and and heating services.
development of an online on demand home repair and improvement offering The business in North America had our Home Experts platform.
a transformational year, completing the acquisition and integration of Our investment in Checkatrade and Utility Service Partners Inc. USP acquisition of Habitissimo are a major while continuing to sign new partners step forward and position us at the fore organically.
As a result, we made rapid of the online revolution we are seeing progress towards the targeted 80m in home services.
The Home Experts affinity partner households, where 18m online platform will connect a wider households were added during FY17, consumer demographic to a broader range of expert tradespeople.
8 Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc coun ounts ts 2017 2017 With these opportunities, and the positive outlook for the rest of our business, HomeServe has an excitingfuture this coming year and beyond.
