Chief Executives review Aligned for growth In our nuclear business, the volume of the additional worknow required has led to an ending of the existing Magnox contract in 2019.
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA will establish a replacement structure to be put in place when the current contract ends and we believe that Cavendish Nuclear is well positioned towin further elements of decommissioning work, both on the Magnox estate and in the decommissioning of Sellafield, which the NDA now estimates will cost a total of around 88 billion.
After starting the year as Chief Operating Officer, working alongside Peter Rogers as part of our managed handover, I formally became Chief Executive on 1 September 2016.
Last autumn I oversaw our annual fiveyear strategy Archie Bethel CBE, Chief Executive review and update for the first time since becoming Chief Executive.
It was an important moment for me: I was looking Babcock continues to deliver, with sustained across the Group to understand where we underlying growth in revenue, operating profit and had come from and where we could be in five years time.
earnings per share demonstrating the quality of our Over the last 15 years, we have pursued operations and the resilience of the Groups business.
a highly successful strategy, moving away Our proven model of providing our unaffected by the changing environment.
from our origins in manufacturing and customers with better capability, reliability This is exemplified by our success in the power industry to become one of and availability of their critical assets winning an 11year contract from the the UKs leading engineering support whilst delivering cost savings continues French Ministry of Defence and our services companies.
Our customers see to prove successful and we continue to success in becoming the first nonUS us as a trusted partner that helps them experience demand across our markets, company to be selected to provide a tomanage their complex assets.
both in the UK and internationally.
With critical component for a US nuclear We have deep skills and experience in clear barriers to entry across many of submarine as part of the 1 billion joint theareas of technology, technical training our businesses, we believe we are well USUK missile tube programme.
At the same time positioned to continue to grow the In the UK, we have seen the work we are familiar with a broad range of business, supported by a strong underpin programmes identified in the 2015 platforms and assets, and have technical of already secured future revenue.
Strategic Defence and Security Review agreements in place with all the major We believe the market dynamics remain SDSR begin to come to market, ensuring original equipment manufacturers positive in the sectors in which we have a healthy pipeline of outsourcing OEMs.
This combination of depth deep expertise, both in the UK and opportunities in the provision of and breadth is what makes Babcocks internationally.
There continues to be equipment, throughlife equipment offering so powerful.
Wherever there an appetite for increased operational support and training over the medium are complex assets whether its an and cost efficiencies in the delivery of term.
In May the UK Ministry of Defence airbase, a submarine, a vehicle fleet or nondiscretionary critical services, and MOD awarded us all four elements of a nuclear plant we can generate the for working with a partner who can a 360 million technical authority and right engineering solutions to support demonstrate a track record of delivery.
equipment support package for both our customers.
This fundamental requirement of regional the Queen Elizabeth Class QEC aircraft Today, we use this combination of depth and national governments and of blue carriers and Type 45 Destroyers.
and breadth to manage key assets for chip international customers, appears many highprofile customers in both Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 20 10.5 19.0 10.5 20.0 10.5 20.0 17.5 11.5 15.5 12.0 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 the public and private sectors.
For all Expanding our international business is regulations involved, and how we can of them, our goal is to provide them a priority.
To achieve our target we will make critical assets work better for with better availability and capability double the size of our global business in customers.
We have strong capabilities from their critical assets.
Clearly, this the next five years.
As well as continuing indesign, procurement, logistics, quality meets a need in the last 10 years our to grow in our established markets assurance and inspection, construction revenue has grown from 500 million in Australia and South Africa, well be and implementation.
And we have a to5 billion today.
building up our business in Italy, France, solid base of customers who confirm Canada and Spain, so that they too can thatwhen we say we are trusted to Weve come a long way, but I believe we become standalone countries.
In all these deliver, wemean it.
One of my key roles six core countries we will be seeking is to test the robustness of our strategy But the depth and breadth of our offering opportunities in both the defence and and to be sure that the organisation has brings its own problems when we are civil sectors.
the capacity and capability to exploit the trying to win new business.
How can we growth opportunities before us.
When This, combined with continued growth bring focus and clarity to the discussion I look at the size and shape thebusiness in the UK, will mean expanding our when the problems and solutions are could be in five years time I believe the workforce.
There will be new career inherently complex?
Weve made a lot strategy is robust and deliverable but we opportunities opening up in the UK and of progress internationally in the last two need to make a fairly simple realignment internationally as we grow.
At the same years, but I believe that ourstructure was of our internal divisional structure to give time well also be investing in employee holding us back.
us a solid base to enable us to grow as we development and training.
We need to have an organisational believe we can over the next five years.
In Technology there will be exciting structure that supports our ambitious developments too.
I want Babcock to growth efforts that makes it easy for Where are we going?
be seen as the benchmark for technical us to put together powerful, targeted By 2022 we aim to be by far the biggest, innovation within engineering services.
In solutions to overcome the problems and most successful, engineering a world where the speed of technological faced by potential customers.
That is services business in the UK, and one change is rapidly advancing, we need to why from 1 April 2017 we simplified of the best in the world.
I want to see stay abreast of developments and utilise our organisational structure: realigning us deliver toplevel returns for our new capability to add new dimensions our divisions into four sectors supported shareholders, whilst having grown our to how we support customers.
We need by four crosscutting capabilities revenues significantly.
We plan to grow to ask ourselves questions such as How including anew Global Growth internationally even faster than we will could we service a new generation of andOperations organisation.
in the UK, and in five years time I expect iFrigates?
We have already started up this Let me start with the realignment.
around 30% of our revenue will come curve.
The challenge of the next five years Overseas we sell our capabilities, not our from outside the UK.
is tobeahead of the curveand develop technology solutions that really help our customers.
International revenue Order book and pipeline So, to sum up, we have a strategy where in five years I want to see us have a significant presence in six core countries, 25% expand our technology capability, c 30bn continue to grow our revenues, provide good returns and employ substantially more people.
So I need to make sure we have the structures, systems, processes and people to support that level of complex growth, both in the UKand internationally.
We have a winning formula of depth and breadth, and thats not going to change.
We understand complicated FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 infrastructure and operations and the UK 75% Europe 9% Rest of world 16% Order book Pipeline Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 21 Chief Executives review continued internal organisational structure.
We need Training will remain fundamental to To carry out these two tasks effectively, to remove unnecessary complexity and supporting our offering and will be an weare embedding business development move to a customerfacing structure so important element in all our sectors.
Here people from each sector in the new that people can easily understand what I have asked John Davies to come up with Global Growth organisation.
This will we are offering.
Therefore Idecided to a strategy that will link best practices and create a formal, reliable link between realign our organisation around four tie in with Technology to identify new thecountries and the sectors, so that they sectors: Marine, Land, Aviation and technological ways to deliver training, can work effectively together to win and Cavendish Nuclear.
such as simulation and virtual reality.
implement new international contracts and ultimately build autonomous Bringing our services together under Infrastructure, including our dockyards at countryteams in all six core countries.
these four sectors has many advantages.
Devonport and Rosyth, will continue to be a main driver for all four sectors.
With this new platform the four First, it will enable us to tell a much sectors, the crosscutting capabilities simpler and clearer story to potential The fourth crosscutting capability, and the Global Growth organisation customers about the capabilities we Global Growth, will play a vital role in I am confident that we will be in a are offering.
enabling our ambitious international strong position to support our fiveyear growth strategy.
Building on the Secondly, it will bring commercial and growth plan.
successful work of Bill Tame andthe military operations together in each International Boardover the last two sector, so that likeminded people can Outlook years, we are strengthening this capability more easily collaborate, share knowledge, We believe that the revenue visibility by creating anew Global Growth and crosssell and crossfertilise ideas.
provided by our order book and near Operations organisation.
term bid pipeline, together with the And thirdly, each of these sectors will The Global Growth organisation will take its rightful place as a leading player strong pipeline of future opportunities have two main roles: driving business in the longer term tracking pipeline, in its marketplace.
Land at 1.8 billion development, and linking the incountry and Marine at 1.9 billion will be some offers continued prospects for growth.
teams with the UK sectors to ensure that We have identified opportunities across of the biggest players in the UK.
Aviation the sectors provide the support required atjust under0.9 billion will be the all of our core markets, and believe to win and implementcontracts.
It will that the realignment of the business, biggest aviation engineeringbusiness in function as a bridge to connect our the UK outside the OEMs and airlines, and which brings us closer to our customers, international teams with the four sectors both in the UK and internationally, Cavendish Nuclear at over 0.6 billion in the UK.
will be the largest nuclear engineering will enable us to continue to identify opportunities to further develop our services player in the UK.
This realignment Driving business development will mean will give us valuable brand recognition ensuring incountry teams understand business.
The Board therefore remains confident that the Group will continue and credibility.
Babcocks strengths in each of the sectors, guiding them to find customers to generate sustainable growth over the As well as the four sectors, the new coming years.
and opportunities, feeding in reference platform will be strengthened by data from satisfied customers, and four crosscutting capabilities that Following the realignment of the building a pipeline of opportunities business, reporting for 2016 17reflects will work across all the sectors: thatare of interest to the Company.
Technology, Training, Infrastructure the divisional structure in place through the financial year, but future outlooks andGlobal Growth.
Linking the countries and the UK sectors will enable our overseas operations to reflect the new sectors, and can be seen In Technology, innovation will be an on pages 24 and 25 of this document.
draw expertise and domain knowledge area of continuing focus, as we work from the sectors based in the UK and to stay abreast of opportunities that from each other, supporting both the bid emerge through new technological and its implementation.
I have asked Jon Hall, Global Growth organisation will assess Managing Director, Technology, to the resources required for the project, form a team that will work across all Archie Bethel CBE identify which resources will need to be sectors to produce a technology growth brought in from the sectors, and manage Chief Executive strategy that will meet the needs of the technicalities of moving people all the sectors as they grow, as well around the world and deploying them as identifying new opportunities for inother countries.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 22 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Consistent strategy, coherent business More information: Read our KPIs, p28 and risks and controls starting on p68 Leading market positions Public bodies and blue Customer focused chip customers longterm relationships We expect our businesses to be, orhave plans to be, one of the top Our customers tend to be We place great emphasis on doing three in their market sectors, with government departments, public the right thing for our customers.
the aimof ensuring we achieve bodies, highly regulated industries We listen and seek to be flexible economies of scale and create or blue chip companies that own and responsive to their needs.
large, strategically important assets work collaboratively, often through or infrastructure.
We encourage our longterm partnerships or alliances, No.
1 customers to partner with us and to ensure we understand their UK engineering support services to build longterm relationships.
UK maritime support business UK civil nuclear engineer Customer split Sample contract duration Cavendish Nuclear Support partner toRoyal Navy World provider of aviation 82 18 25 years emergency services Public private ToBA, LFB, MFTS, SASEMAR, RSME Integrated engineering Balancing risk and reward Excellent health and and technical expertise safety record We mainly operate through longterm,  We are able to integrate a broad We never compromise on health range of engineering and technical contracts.
We believe this and safetyand expect all our approach creates a commercial expertise to provide services that sectors to delivera marketleading are complex, critical and bespoke.
framework which fairly balances safety performance.
We believe all risk and reward between us We manage the interface between our employees and others working all these activities to provide full and our customers.
Target on or visiting our operations should cost contracts incentivise us to operational outcomes and help be able to return home safe and totake risk from our customers.
remove cost via apainshare well at the end of theworking day.
Years experience Tightlycontrolled bid process Reduction intotal injuries Contracts require Group approval, ensuring risks are mitigated and rewards are at an acceptable level 125 18% prior to targeted bidding activity.
Founded in 1891 Per 100,000 hrs worked 2016: 14% Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 23
