Royal Mail plc | Chief Executives Committee Chief Executives Committee In addition to the Royal Mail plc Board, the Chief Executives Committee CEC manages the key strategies of the Group with an overall framework of financial risk and business controls to meet the needs of stakeholders.
Matthew Lester Moya Greene Stephen Agar Rico Back Chief Finance Officer Chief Executive Officer Managing Director, Consumer Chief Executive Officer, GLS Member of TopCo and Network Access Member of TopCo Member of TopCo seepage65.
Appointed Managing Director, See Board of Directors on Consumer and Network Access in Current role See Board of Directors on pages 4951.
Appointed Chief Executive Officer pages 4951. of GLS in October 1999.
Responsible for the regulated letters business both USO and Previous work history Access, Philatelic and Postcodes.
Founding manager of German Previous work history Parcel in 1989, which was acquired A barrister who started his by the Group in 1999. career in the Government Legal Service before moving to RacalElectronicsplc.
Jack Bertram Stephen Cameron Maaike fide Bie Mick Jeavons Managing Director, Strategy, UK Operations Director General Counsel Chief of Staff Pricing and Growth Current role Current role Current role Appointed UK Operations Director in Appointed General Counsel in Appointed Chief of Staff in Current role March 2016.
Appointed Managing Director, Previously appointed in August Strategy, Pricing and Growth in Previous work history Previous work history 2015 as Deputy Chief Operations January 2016.
Joined Royal Mail in January 2014 Mick is a chartered accountant Officer alongside role as Operations and appointed Acting General and has performed a wide range Strategy Director.
Previous work history Counsel in September 2015. of senior roles in Royal Mail, most Partner at McKinsey & Previous work history recently as Corporate Finance Company focused on strategy, Joined Royal Mail in 1985 and has Previously General Counsel for Director responsible for Group transformation and growth in worked across all aspects of the the EMEA division of GE Capital Investment, Procurement and travel, post and logistics sectors.
operation notably as Operations, Commercial Distribution France, the UK Finance teams.
Previous Process and Programme Director a financial services unit of the to this he was Group Financial and Territory Director.
Controller and Finance Director of Successfully led the initial phase Has held other senior international GroupProperty.
of Royal Mails comprehensive legal roles at the European transformation programme Bank for Reconstruction and across UK operations.
Development, Ernst & Young LLP Stephen is a Fellow of the and White & Case LLP.
52 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Jon Millidge Phil Morris Mike Newnham Shane O'Riordain Group HR Director Group Chief Technology Officer Managing Director, New Markets Managing Director, Corporate and Digital Affairs, Regulation and Current role Current role CustomerExperience Appointed Group HR Director in Appointed Group Chief Technology Current role February 2014.
Officer in April 2017, following his Appointed Managing Director, Current role interim appointment as Group New Markets and Digital in Appointed Managing Director, Pension Scheme Trustee Chief Information Officer in January2017.
Corporate Affairs, Regulation of the Royal Mail Defined May2016.
and Customer Experience in ContributionPlan.
Appointed IT Director for Strategy, in March 2012.
Previous work history Architecture, Security and Service Previous work history Joined Royal Mail in 1985 as a in January 2012.
Previous work history Appointed Managing Director, graduate and has worked across Led the Consumer division of Communications, in November Previous work history a number of the businesses within Orange UK.
Subsequently assumed Partnership at the PA the Group.
responsibility for Strategy, Prior to that held a number ConsultingGroup.
Previously Company Secretary Regulation and Pricing in 2014. ofexecutive board positions Managing Director for EquaTerra from May 2010 to February 2014 atOrange.
Held a number of Group Corporate Europe and Asia.
and prior to that was the Acting Affairs Director positions in the Group HR Director.
Executive Director for Morgan banking and financial sector at Chambers.
Lloyds Banking Group, HBOS, Halifax and Flemings.
Stuart Simpson Sue Whalley Director, Group Finance Chief Operations Officer Current role Member of TopCo Appointed Director of Group seepage65.
Current role Joined the Royal Mail Group in 2009 Joined Royal Mail in 2006 and was and was appointed as Deputy Chief appointed Chief Operations Officer Operations Officer in January 2014. in January 2014.
Prior to this, he was running Responsible for leading the next Operations for the West Region of phase of the transformation in the the UK and was Finance Director of UK core business, with specific UK Operations.
focus on further development of safety, quality, efficiency, culture Previous work history and innovation.
Worked in the automotive industry Previously, as Regulation and for 15 years with senior roles in Government Affairs Director, led Finance and Strategy, the last 10 of the programme for privatisation.
which were based outside the UK.
Previous work history On 15 May 2017, we announced that Consultant at McKinsey & Stuart Simpson, Director of Group Finance, will be appointed CFO and join Company for 17 years, the last six the Royal Mail Board at the conclusion of which were as a partner in the of the AGM on 20July2017.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 53
