Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information 1,2 Our performance Group revenue was up one per cent.
GLS performed well, with revenue growth of ninepercent more than offsetting a twopercent reduction in UKPIL revenue.
Adjusted Group operating profit before transformation costs was 712million and 575 million after transformation costs.
Adjusted Group operating profit margin after transformation costs increased by 10basis points to 5.9percent.
UKPIL parcel volumes grew by three per cent and revenue increased by three per cent.
Addressed letter volumes excluding the impact of political parties election mailings decreased by six per cent, while total letter revenue was down fivepercent.
We are past the peak of investment so our spend reduced this year.
As a result, in-year trading cash flow increased to 420million.
Winning in parcels Competitive marketplaces We are the UKs pre-eminent parcel delivery company with over 50percent of market 3 share by volume.
At 56percent, parcels account for a higher proportion of Royal Mails Group revenue than for any of our benchmarked peers.
We connect businesses, households and communities up and down the country.
As the Universal Service Chief Executive Officer's Provider, Royal Mail facilitates e-commerce growth for UK businesses, especially SMEs.
review The UK has one of the most developed e-commerce markets in the world.
Amazon has an extensive presence in retailing as well as logistics, including delivery.
It is expanding We have made good progress against all of our strategic its presence, including in a range of new priorities.
This has been a more challenging period for UK segments.
Growth available in the addressable UK parcels market continues to be impacted by businesses and we have come through it well.
There is significant spare focus on costs is a key priority.
We are on track to avoid around capacity in the market at non-peak times of the year, putting downward pressure on prices.
600 million of annualised costs in UKPIL by 2017-18.
We are Competition remains intense.
International past the peak of investment: we now expect net cash investment express carriers are showing renewed interest in UK e-commerce.
GLS is performing very well and is growing revenue organically and through acquisitions.
In the consumer SME segment, product and Itsdeep expertise and focus on B2B parcels in multiple service innovations provide more choice and convenience for customers.
For example, geographies now 41European countries and seven states in e-commerce services are evolving to provide the US positions it to be a greater force for growth for the Company.
Wewill continue to invest in careful and focused 1 Adjusted results exclude the pension charge to cash international expansion by GLS.
Through a combination of our difference and specific items, consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by strategic approach to costs and more efficient investment spend, Management and reported to the Board.
2 Movements are presented on an underlying basis.
we will support our progressive dividend policy with the in-year For further details of adjusted and underlying Alternative Performance Measures APMs used in trading cash generation of theGroup.
the Annual Report and Financial Statements, including reconciliations to the closest IFRS measures where appropriate, see page 33.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 07 Royal Mail plc | Chief Executive Officer's review greater visibility over delivery windows and accounts for 18percent of UKPIL parcel We have made it easier for customers to more control over delivery options.
We reported access our international services.
We have in 2015-16 a reduction in export volumes, so built on our shipping solutions, using the International markets are intensely we built a better solution for exports.
The rate of cross-border capabilities of Intersoft.
E-retail continues to fuel growth decline in export parcel volumes has moderated Intersoft, we have developed our export in cross-border parcel volumes.
Exports have high AURs but higher solutions and now have the capability to offer increasing demand for faster services and cost of sales too.
tracked cross-border outbound and returns tracked products.
Intra-European e-commerce services to our larger customers.
This is driving cross-border Pursuing faster-growing areas of volumes and a significant part of the growth is In Europe, GLS recently expanded GLS-ONE the UK and international markets B2C.
The European deferred parcels segment in Germany.
This is a portal to facilitate the We are targeting higher growth areas: for 4 grew faster than the expresssegment.
sending and receiving of parcels.
Consumers example, clothing and footwear.
We have can create their own label to send a parcel worked with e-retailers to be more flexible Our progress and have it delivered to a specific address, about the dimensions of the parcels parcel box or GLS ParcelShop.
Around two-thirds of our parcels we handle.
are barcoded and one-third can be Expanding and automating tracked in some way We have expanded our relationships with ournetworks retailers and network partners to maximise We can offer any retail account the opportunities developing from crossOur first parcel sorting machine is now in customer a tracked product border volume growth between the UK operation in Swindon.
It can sort and scan We have improved our and Asia.
For example, we are working around 10,000 small parcels per hour.
 with China Post to provide Chinese and Machines are currently being installed UK customers with faster delivery and a at Home Counties North, Greenford and We strengthened GLS network and tracked service.
Subject to extended the service offering in Spain successful deployment of the first set of The depth of coverage, value for money and GLS is performing well and is growing machines, further machines are planned to convenience for customers is unparalleled revenue organically and through acquisitions.
be installed over the next two years.
We have wherever they are based in the UK.
We operate Its deep expertise and focus on parcels worked closely with our unions on this.
in every business segment of the parcels positions it to be a force for growth for market.
Our tracked products continue to grow the Company.
We will continue to invest in We have a denser network of parcel access at a fast rate.
We can offer any retail account careful and focused international expansion points for shipping, returns and collections 6 customer a tracked product.
Royal Mail Tracked by GLS.
Sending customers 24 48 volumes have grown by 38per cent: can use approximately 11,500 Post Office returns volumes are up 18per cent.
Our major As in the UK, B2C is the fastest growing branches and around 1,200 Royal Mail technology rebuild over the last five years has segment in the European parcels market.
Customer Service Points to drop off pre-paid been a key enabler for the repositioning of what GLS provides new points of synergy for items for delivery within the UK.
Over was already a very good parcel business.
Our our international business based in the UK.
250Customer Service Points are now open customer service is good and we focus on key It also continues to develop its premium B2C on a Sunday, covering 38percent of all areas like complaints, where we have more delivery services.
Launched in Germany in delivery points across theUK.
We have the highest standards of April 2016, GLS Sameday offers same-day consumer protections for our parcels customers.
evening deliveries in 11cities, providing an Parcelforce Worldwide, our express parcels attractive offering for online shoppers.
We are business, has improved services for We deliver more parcels each year in the able to leverage the deep expertise of GLS heavy and bulky parcels.
Parcelforce has UK than all of our competitors combined.
to help forge a presence in new areas, for introduced two new next day services for The service and product improvements we example, our careful expansion in the US.
It has also extended large put in place are delivering real benefits.
We have won further volumes from major Adding value by improving our It builds on Parcelforce's position as a retailers, including Vistaprint and River premium quality carrier within the courier products and services Island.
Senders and recipients now have express market.
Improving the customer experience remains better visibility of when their parcel has been a key focus for us.
This includes rolling out delivered.
When we started using the new 2D The recent acquisition June 2016 of ASM delivery confirmation for the majority of data-rich barcodes in 2015, we were tracking has significantly extended the GLS service barcoded parcels.
This informs the sender around 20percent of our parcels.
Today, offering in Spain, in particular, in the B2C whether a parcel has been delivered, or enabled by our enhanced IT parcels systems, segment, where growth rates are expected returned to the Delivery Office.
around two-thirds of parcels are barcoded to be higher than B2B.
GLS Spain now has a and one-third can be tracked in some way.
much bigger footprint both in terms of size We are the delivery partner of choice for We aim to barcode as many of our parcels and scale.
ASM has exceeded performance the UKs SMEs.
There are 5.4million SMEs as possible.
Given the in the UK generating 47percent of total potential synergies, the transaction is 5 UK turnover 1.8 trillion.
We support the We have focused on improving average unit expected to be economic profit accretive for growth of SMEs through extended weekend revenues AUR in import parcels by improving GLS in 2018-19. collections.
Local Collect remains the largest the service levels we offer and securing better UK network of click and collect locations, Universal Postal Union UPU rates.
International GLS has also rolled out its ParcelLockers in with around 11,600 sites.
four countries across Eastern Europe the 4 5 Effigy Consulting: European Courier, Express and National Federation of Self Employed & Small 6 Parcel 2016 Market Summary of 2014-15 data.
08 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information first parcel provider to do so.
More than We have rolled out initiatives to mitigate mail and secured all major UK mail operators 70 terminals have been installed, offering the impact of e-substitution and business commitment to it.
We changed the terms consumers an easy to use and secure way of uncertainty on letter volumes and revenues.
and conditions for retail customers.
We can receiving their parcels.
Other options include Through our MarketReach business, we are now check items we suspect to be scam collecting parcels from a GLS ParcelShop or demonstrating the positive impact marketing mail, refuse to process or deliver them and delivery within a certain time frame.
mail can have on campaign results.
terminate a customers contract in certain circumstances.
Since launching this new Defending letters The Strategic Mailing Partnership, a joint scheme, we have stopped over 700,000 initiative with the mailing house industry, suspect mail items from reaching customers.
Rolling out collaborative projects with promotes mail through collaboration and the advertising industry working to resolve critical industry issues.
It aims Since November 2016, over 700,000 Continuing to win back and retain to improve overall efficiency and operational items of scam mail have beenstopped key contracts processes and to grow mail volumes.
Coordinating an industry-wide We are winning business.
For example, in response to tackle fraudulent mail at Following the year end, we launched a major 2016, we won a three-year contract to handle its source new initiative for customers who we believe all London Boroughs postal services.
We also are receiving high volumes of scam mail.
We are seeing the impact of overall business announced that we had been awarded a threeWe will block and impound scam mail at our uncertainty in the UK on letter volumes, in year framework to provide Scottish Public major distribution centres before it reaches particular on advertising and business letters.
The framework the customers letterbox.
Legitimate business Marketing mail is sensitive to changes in means that Royal Mail has become the supplier and personal mail will continue to be delivered economic activity.
In 2016-17, our marketing for Scottish Government, local authority and to the customer in the usual way.
This latest mail revenue decreased by eight per cent, the public body postal services.
anti-scam initiative will initially focus on the same trend as at the half year.
Other forms most impacted customers, with plans for it to of advertising, particularly print media, have Improving mail handling be extended in the future.
In 2016, there was an We continue to transform our network with overall decline of 10percent in direct mail.
more automation of letter sorting and the Regulation Print advertising saw a 13percent decline reorganisation of delivery routes.
We have The USO is a key driver of UK economic growth.
increased letter sequencing to the final It is a key part of the digital economy the delivery point to 83percent.
We plan to physical fulfilment arm and is crucial to the UKs In March 2017, the price of a First Class install more letter sorting machines and economic future.
stamp increased by 1p to 65p and the price of automation equipment for large letters.
This a Second Class stamp went up by 1p to 56p.
is further increasing our efficiency.
We note that Ofcom continues to find high These changes are needed to help ensure the levels of customer satisfaction and value for sustainability of the Universal Postal Service.
Around 80percent of suitable letters now money with postal services.
Ofcom has also Royal Mails stamp prices are amongst the carry a Mailmark barcode.
This enables recognised our progress on efficiency.
The UK has one of the sending customers to track the delivery highest quality of service specifications of any progress of mail more closely and ensures We are disappointed that Ofcom does not major European country.
that we are accurately billing for the services agree with us that there is a pressing need we provide.
for a proactive framework to help sustain the From the Residential Postal Tracker 2016, Universal Service.
There is a real need to ensure Ofcom found that a large majority of Cotswold Collections mails seven that the revenue pools that sustain the USO are residential customers said that they were catalogues a year.
We need a proactive sustainability satisfied with postal services overall in collections are unique so many orders framework and a focus on removing regulation 2016.
82per cent of respondents stated are received within the first few hours which restricts these vital revenue pools.
they were either very satisfied or fairly after delivery.
It is critical the business 8 satisfied with Royal Mail's services.
In a can respond to customer demand.
In a similar vein, we welcome the UK previous report, the regulator also found RoyalMails Mailmark has helped Governments focus on employment postal services delivery to be the only Cotswold Collections improve its business models, and in particular, the Taylor Review.
sector where customers perceptions of management with accurate tracking.
We believe there is a public policy issue value for money had increased from 2005 Mailmark allows Cotswold Collections around fictitious self-employment and poor 9 to 2015. to know exactly when, where and how labour standards in the delivery sector.
many catalogues are delivered each day.
Alevel playing field is needed.
This ensures staffing is at peak efficiency, Promoting the value of mail reducing costs and maximising customer This year, we launched and built upon a satisfaction.
number of initiatives to add value to letters.
We are working with mailing customers Tackling the scourge of scam mail and access operators to incentivise We understand the upset and distress that customer mailings.
This year, we worked with our employees, industry partners and law enforcement agencies to tackle this issue even 7 WARC expenditure report for 2016 calendar year.
A range of new measures 8 Ofcom, Review of the Regulation of Royal Mail, wereimplemented to strengthen our ability 1 March 2017, Paragraph 3.17. to stem the flow of scam mail.
We launched 9 Ofcom, Consultation on Review of the Regulation of an industry-wide Code of Practice on scam Royal Mail, 25 May 2016, Paragraph 4.12.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 09 Royal Mail plc | Chief Executive Officer's review Growing in new areas Strategic focus on costs from increasing cost of sales associated with tracked parcels and export parcels growth 10 Acquisition of GSO and PostalExpress Achieved our cost reduction targets and higher depreciation.
for three consecutive years Developed customer-facing products and services that leverage our data Delivered productivity improvement Technology and innovation and relationships of 2.7percent in 2016-17, at the Completed roll-out of our new PDA higher end of our target range We have made investments in projects to technology in our core network support growth.
We are looking at areas Cost avoidance programme on track, Introduced new functionality to our where there is a market opportunity and the with 225million of costs avoided in online postage service Click & Drop potential to make the most of our existing 2016-17 assets, experience and relationships.
Launched our new self-service Reducing the number of solution, Labels to Go managerial layers We are an international parcels business, We have invested a significant amount in through both our UK and GLS operations.
We are transforming our UK network at an technology over the past five years.
Some key GLShas a very strong network.
Together absorbable rate of change.
UKPIL adjusted technological builds had to be put in place with network partners, it operates across operating costs before transformation costs before we could proceed.
This investment 42 countries with different languages, reduced by onepercent.
This is the third year is making us a better, safer and more cost labour models and regulatory environments.
we have been able to deliver underlying cost effective operation.
The rollout of our new In addition, its expertise and focus on parcels reduction in UKPIL.
PDA technology is now complete in our core positions GLS to be an accelerating force for network.
This is one of the largest estates of growth for the whole Company.
The USO and the regulated quality of service its kindin Europe.
standards require a large fixed cost base in In line with its strategy of targeted and order to be able to deliver our obligations.
Our PDAs significantly increase our scanning focused geographic expansion, GLS acquired While we are proud to be the Universal capability.
They give us more interfaces with GSO in California.
The area in which GSO Service Provider, it is expensive to deliver.
our customers, expanding the number of operates has a GDP roughly equivalent to the In addition, our workforce has the best pay interactions they have with their parcels.
The region is experiencing faster GDP and terms and conditions in the industry.
Ourpostmen and women handle over growth than both the UK and continental Almost 70percent of our UKPIL costs are in onebillion parcels and nearly 15billion Europe.
GSO is well-positioned to benefit relation to people and their benefits.
from growth in intra-state deliveries within its existing geographic footprint.
We expect UKPIL collections, processing and delivery Our shipping tools Storefeeder, for example GSO to perform in line with our expectations productivity increased by 2.7percent.
This connect retail customers and give us the in the first full year of its ownership by the is at the better end of our target range of a ability to dynamically capture the choices Group.
The transaction is expected to be profit 2.0-3.0percent improvement per annum.
We introduced new accretive for GLS in 2019-20. improvement in productivity was achieved functionality to Click & Drop.
We are leading through a 1.9percent reduction in core network the way by providing account customers with In April 2017, we announced the acquisition of hours, despite an increase in workload.
free access to our multi-channel despatch the US overnight parcel delivery company, Postal management tool.
Postal Express is a regional overnight We know that becoming more efficient has now use our software to integrate with the carrier operating in the states of Washington, a human face.
Over the last fouryears, we marketplace and print off their barcoded Oregon, and Idaho.
It offers overnight parcel have seen a net reduction of around 12,000 shipping labels.
delivery, mainly to B2B customers, across a UKPIL employees.
We continue to reduce the number of industries.
number of managerial layers which reduces We have developed digital capabilities costs and streamlines our decision making.
Our corporate strategy is in part enabled by We work closely with our unions to ensure InApril2017, we launched our new selfour focus on becoming a digital organisation.
our people exiting the business do so with service solution, Labels to Go.
Customers We are becoming more digitally-enabled dignity and respect.
internally as well as in our interactions with customers and consumers.
We are trialling a Non-people costs have reduced in real Click&Drop number of initiatives as part of our customerterms by 15percent over the last four facing digitisation.
This approach is supported years.
We continue to reduce the number What is Click & Drop?
by a more resilient IT backbone as a result of our facilities while ensuring we have by Our Click & Drop service integrates of our major IT transformation programme.
some distance the most accessible and data from online shopping platforms We have also developed apps such as convenient Delivery Office network in the UK.
e. g. eBay, Amazon to make it quicker LovetoPost, enabling customers to turn and easier to buy postage and print photographs into personalised postcards.
We are targeting to avoid around 600million address labels online.
Individuals, 11 In 2016-17, we saw a 60per cent increase of annualised operating costs by 2017-18. marketplace sellers and businesses in consumers visiting our website using More significant cost reduction will need can manage all their sending needs.
This leaves us well placed for further modernisation of our processes Customers can pay by PayPal, credit the continued growth in the use of mobile and more streamlined structures.
We are card or via their Royal Mail Online devices to purchase delivery services.
also facing the impact of wage inflation and Business Account.
Account features increases due to employment legislation.
include multi-marketplace integration In non-people costs, we are facing headwinds and the ability for customers to print up to 100labels in one transaction.
10 11 Postal Express was acquired after the financial Cumulative over financial years 2015-16, 2016-17 and yearend.
10 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information buying postage online can now print off We are pleased to report that we exceeded GLS has consistently performed well since delivery and return labels from their mobile our full year regulatory First Class target IPO, growing revenue on an organic basis phones at the majority of our 1,200Customer of 93.0percent, with 93.1percent of mail as well as through acquisitions.
We again exceeded contributes nearly a third of adjusted Group our Second class target of 98.5per cent, with operating profit.
We will continue to invest Telemetry lowers maintenance costs due to a performance of 98.9per cent.
in GLS careful and focused international improved driving styles.
The more telemetry expansion to help drive growth for the Group.
we have, the better our driver behaviour and We were disappointed to see an increase safety should be.
It is more cost effective if in the overall number of complaints.
This We now expect net cash investment of we know where our vehicles are and we are is against the backdrop of an increase in around 450million in 2017-18 and less better able to get paid fairly for what we do.
customer text and email delivery notifications than 500 million per annum going forward.
as the number of tracked parcels we handle Through a combination of our strategic Our workforce continues to increase.
Customers have approach to costs and more efficient increased visibility over whether their parcel investment spend, we will support our Exceeded our full year regulatory First has been delivered or an attempt has been progressive dividend policy with the in-year Class target of 93.0percent made to deliver it, which can lead to an trading cash flow generation of the Group.
Mean business satisfaction score increase in complaints.
increased to 78 Thank you th Royal Mail takes complaints seriously and The 500 anniversary of the postal service As one of the largest employers in the UK, we we have a consistent approach to tackling was all about our people they are the are proud to provide the best pay and terms any issues.
We continue to highlight ones who have sustained our continued and conditions in our sector.
We remain business standards and key procedures to important role over the centuries in the committed to high quality employment in a tackle denial of receipt through the use of UK.
Simply put, they are our Company.
With your Neighbour cards and correct We will continue to focus on delivering doorstep scanning.
Our focus on tackling our key mission: connecting companies, We know how important pensions are to our issues as quickly as possible contributed to customers and communities and making people.
Our focus is on continuing to provide an improvement in two out of our five main e-commerce happen.
the best retirement benefits in the industry.
We were sorry to have to conclude that the Royal Mail Pension Plan RMPP is not Delivery to home remains the most affordable in its current form.
The RMPP was Moya Greene popular way to receive a parcel.
Around closed to new employees joining the Group Chief Executive Officer 81percent of customers prefer delivery from 1April 2008.
The RMPP is currently in 17May 2017 14 12 tohome over other options.
surplus but we expect this surplus would run out in 2018 if members continued to build up benefits on the current defined benefit Outlook pension basis.
The Companys contributions These results demonstrate that as a business would then increase to 1.15billion a year.
we can respond to our challenging operating We could not increase the cash contribution environment and continue to focus on without materially reducing the necessary sustainable cash generation.
investment in the UKPIL business.
We set out our proposal for the RMPPs future after Royal Mail operates internationally and in March 2018, for consultation with all active many markets with different dynamics.
We are committed to not making any changes before April2018.
In the UK, IT-enabled innovation has improved our parcel offering, such that we The consultation closed on 10March 2017. expect to be able to keep in step with the We have concluded that there is no affordable addressable UK parcels market growth solution to keeping the RMPP open in its of around three per cent.
Therefore, the Company has constrained due to the highly competitive come to the decision that the RMPP will market but parcel revenue should benefit close to future accrual on 31March 2018. from improvements in mix.
We continue to work closely with our unions on a sustainable and affordable solution We maintain our outlook for addressed letter for the provision of future pension benefits.
volume declines of between four to six per cent We will write to RMPP members once further per annum excluding the impact of political decisions have beenmade.
parties election mailings over the medium term but would expect to be at the higher end Our people are at the heart of everything of the range of decline in 2017-18 if the current we do.
Our mean business customer climate of business uncertainty persists.
satisfaction score across large and medium We continue to focus on costs and remain on sized businesses and SMEs increased track to avoid around 600 million of annualised from 76to78.
Royal Mail is committed to operating costs in UKPIL by2017-18.
delivering a high Quality of Service.
12 13 On an actuarial funding basis using 2015 valuation Redirections and misdeliveries.
IMRG UK Consumer Home Delivery Review 2016.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 11
