14 Chief Executives review Liv Garfield Two years into the current regulatory period Im pleased that, with the superb DELIVERING help and support of all my Severn Trent colleagues, we are becoming a truly RESULTS customer focused business that continues to invest in our future and deliver strong and sustainable financial performance.
As a business we want to As a business we want to be the most be the most trusted water trusted water company by 2020, company by 2020, and and our customers have told us that means delivering an outstanding our customers have told customer experience with the best us that means delivering value service andshowing true an outstanding customer environmental leadership.
experience with the best In the last year we have made progress in all three areas but of course there is valueservice andshowing always more to do.
true environmental On customer experience we have made leadership.
great progress in delivering against our agreed Customer Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs.
For example, this year on two measures that customers care about most we have reduced supply interruptions by 17% and cases of externalsewer flooding by 23% against our regulatory targets.
We have achieved this while making sure that we continue to offer the lowest average combined water and waste water bills in Britain, as well as increasing our commitment to support those customers most in need.
To help us focus on continuing to deliver best value service in the future we have worked hard to identify further efficiencies and have increased the targeted Totex savings by 100 million to 770 million.
Making these savings will help us towards our further ambitions to be upper quartile in performance and cost in retail, water and waste.
WATCH NOW Watch a video of Liv on the investor area of our site: severntrent.
com Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Turning to environmental leadership, Although we have seen tremendous Underlying Group PBIT weare proud of the fact that we have progress across many aspects of the had sector leading performance for two business this year, there is more we can of thelast four years.
Furthermore, on do to improve customer experience.
525.1m renewable energy we are now generating Whilst the number of customer complaints the equivalent of 34% of our energy needs have declined since the start of the AMP Group PBIT and are on track to self-generate 50% there remains more scope for further by 2020. improvements.
As such we are taking a more active approach to reducing 543.7m I would love to take this public opportunity problems occurring in the first place.
to welcome our new customers and For example, we have worked with Dividend increase colleagues from Dee Valley Water.
customers to come up with a re-designed This strategic acquisition helps us grow bill which is easier to understand.
our business and bring in new skills and 1.0% expertise to the wider company.
We look As we look to make contact easier and forward to continuing to integrate our two more efficient, we now have around a third Dividend for the year businesses over the coming months.
of our customers using our 24 7 digital self-service, and we have also designed a Consistency and progress new, easier to navigate customer website.
81.50p To make sure that we make the right We are passionate about affordable progress through this regulatory period bills for all and remain committed to to becoming the most trusted water supporting customers who most need company, we use our strategic framework our help.
Through a range of schemes as our route map to success.
we have delivered our Help When You Need It target that supported over 50,000 This framework focuses on five strategic customers who were struggling with objectives that we believe can deliver their payments.
all of our ambitions, the five are: embed customers at the heart of all we do: drive Drive operational excellence and operational excellence and continued continuous innovation innovation: invest responsibly for sustainable growth: change the market for We are improving the productivity of the better: and create an awesome place our workforce, through better devices, to work.
We are using digital technology and innovation to Taking each of the five in turn, let me reduce risks through real-time water share some thoughts on how we are doing quality measurement and insight, along in each area.
with active network modelling that helps us act quickly and reduce the number Embed customers at the heart of all we do of bursts and cases of premature asset We are proud of the fact that for the deterioration.
We have continued to refine second year we have outperformed our use of sensors and improved analytics against the commitments ODIs to prevent flooding and pollutions, as that our customers most care about.
well as diagnosing and resolving jobs Our customer service and operational more effectively.
improvements have contributed to We have embraced research and customer ODI rewards of 47.6 million.
development as a key enabler for On top of the reduction in external sewer operational excellence, and a great floodings and supply interruptions, example of our innovation leadership is we have also sustained our improved our world-leading phosphorous removal performance on category 3 pollutions and trials.
Being leaders in this field is helping leakage against our regulatory targets.
us save 10 million in this AMP.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Chief Executives review continued Invest responsibly for sustainable growth Our role as custodians of our network Create an awesome place to work for customers today and for future We promised to leave no stone unturned When I first joined the company I was generations is right at the heart of our in the pursuit for Totex efficiencies during struck by the hard work ethic and helpful strategy.
During the year we have seen the year, and through the tremendous nature of our colleagues.
Having this great progress on the Birmingham work of our colleagues to seek better ways culture as our foundation has helped us Resilience Scheme, our largest to run the business, we have identified an bring to life a customer-centric approach ever asset-creation programme.
This takes to everything we do.
Critical milestones such as the Bleddfa the total forecast efficiencies for this As a team we are passionate about bypass have now been completed and AMP to 770m at 2012 13 prices.
Of this creating an awesome place to work we have also embarked on a large 770m, weve been able to announce that and invest huge time and energy into programme of customer engagement to a further 70 million of Totex efficiencies our people plans.
We were pleased to support the next stage of the programme.
have been locked in over the last six see our overall engagement score rise We have also successfully met all DWI months, building on the 540 million wed three percentage points, and continue andEA obligation dates.
previously announced, and taking the total to track above the global benchmark for amounts locked in to 610 million.
We are We have delivered some important employee engagement.
adamant that the search does not stop milestones in our renewables plan, We have been building the required skills here however.
We will continue to seek including the completion of our second and capabilities for the future through opportunities throughout the business to food waste anaerobic digestion plant the recruitment of record levels of drive further efficiencies for the benefit of atRoundhill, Staffordshire.
apprentices and graduates, nearly trebling our customers and our shareholders.
We believe good businesses are socially our intake of apprentices and doubling our To help deliver improved customer service responsible businesses and supporting graduate intake in 2016. and a more efficient and resilient network, our local community is central to our We are also focused on leadership and Severn Trent will be spending around values.
Highlights include the delivery of technical development across the whole 1,400 for every property in our region 12,000 water efficiency home checks to organisation, and have delivered around a over the course of AMP6.
help customers save money, educating 20% increase in training days this year.
167,024 people on sewer misuse and water This year we have also taken steps to efficiency and being recognised by the We continue to recognise our colleagues focus on to our core business with the Drinking Water Inspectorate as industry performance with a collective acquisition of the Dee Valley Water Group, leaders for our innovative approach to bonus scheme that encourages as well as selling our Italian business.
focus on key areas which benefit We have welcomed our colleagues from all of our stakeholders: health and Dee Valley Water, which serves 125,000 Change the market for the better safety, customer ODIs, and financial properties, into the Severn Trent family, performance.
Last years Bonus At the start of April 2017, we saw the and we will spend the summer working reveal was a wonderful employee opening of the non-household retail through the integration of our two engagement moment.
market and I am pleased with the future businesses.
This acquisition is a natural prospects of Waterplus, our joint venture I am also pleased that we have brought fit, and we are enjoying learning new skills with United Utilities.
greater certainty to our pension schemes from each other as we look to collectively with 122 million of further deficit We have engaged with all of our improve the customer experience.
recovery payments by the end of AMP6, colleagues across the business to make including an additional 42 million over sure they understand the new ways of previous commitments.
working in this new world of competition, and our focus on being a fantastic wholesaler for all retailers operating in our region.
I was also very pleased that we have been recognised by our regulators for providing information to our customers and stakeholders that they can trust.
We are one of only three companies to receive self-assured status in Ofwats annual review.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information As we look to serve our communities and Outlook build a lasting water legacy, we recognise We remain committed to delivering high the importance of the communities in service levels to our customers in the which we operate and how central they year ahead, both as a sector leader on are to local life.
Our volunteering scheme customer ODIs and also while improving Community Champions is proving super customer experience.
As an example, our popular with over 100 events planned and 2017 18 employee bonus has been adapted over 1,000 of our people signed up to take to help us drive down complaints as well part in making a real difference to the as deliver against our safety, customer communities in which we operate.
That completes my review of how we are With draft determination submissions doing against our Strategic Framework, for AMP7 due in September 2018, we are after a busy but progressive year.
I trust working hard and collaboratively across you have found it helpful.
all our teams to prepare the best possible plans which benefit all our stakeholders.
Delivering returns We are actively engaging with our Before we take a look at the year ahead customers to co-create the future I am pleased to share that our hard business plans which we put forward as work has resulted in strong levels of we prepare for the next price review.
outperformance for customers and Ofwat have also indicated that there will returns for our investors.
In this past year likely be further opening of the market we have performed well in all three areas to competition, in water resources and which make up our allowed return on bio-resource trading.
We firmly believe we regulated equity RoRE.
I have mentioned have many strengths in these areas and our delivery of customer ODIs and Totex are setting ourselves up for success.
efficiencies, and James Bowling, our Chief Financial Officer, discusses our financial So we have much to look forward to, performance, which continues to improve, and I relish working with my colleagues in more detail in his review.
across the business as collectively we We achieved RoRE of 11.0% this year, up look to put customers at the heart of from 8.4% last year.
This is a very strong everything we do, and build trust with all result which is the testament to the drive of our stakeholders.
Thank you for your and focus of my colleagues, and it reflects ongoing support.
the strong financial and operational health of our company.
Liv Garfield, Chief Executive With a strong track record having been built in this AMP and all our stakeholders winning, together with the Board I am therefore delighted to announce an increase in the ordinary dividend to growth of RPI 4% from 2017 18.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Case study Delivering our vision and purpose through our strategy and values PUTTING CUSTOMERS FIRST Strategic goals Customers signed up for web self service 930,551 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information For people who want to phone us, were Using technology to improve Were using technology improving service through a new portal ourcustomers experience to better understand our for our customer advisers.
It brings For a great experience, its important that customers and give them together all the information our advisers our customers can contact us how they need about the service the customer has thecontrol they want over want, when they want.
Increasingly, that received and how they feel about it.
One means theyre using new channels such theservice they receive.
click processes mean its faster and as our website, web chat and social media.
simpler to use, with less training needed.
In fact, 930,551 customers have now Joanne Hollamby, Since we introduced it, weve cut call times signed up to web self service.
And were from eight minutes to five and reduced Customer Contact Leader the only water company who customers repeat calls by 15%, meaning happier can reach 24 7, not just for emergencies.
customers and lower costs for us.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
