12 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review Our focus, as a REIT, is to collect andcompound our long and strong income and to enhance its repetitive, reliable and .
These structural changes in how Income growth with people shop are driving retailer structuralsupport demand for logistics.
We have We continue to live in a world responded to these trends by actively characterised by both political and pivoting our investment focus from economic uncertainty.
The prolonged retail parks into the logistics and low interest rate environment and distribution sectors, which we expect unorthodox monetary policy has to account for over 70% of our created an almost desperate search portfolio by the end of the current for yield across a widening spectrum financial year.
We remain disciplined of investment classes.
and unemotional in our investment approach and will continue to Our focus, as a REIT, is to collect and dispose of assets where we think Andrew Jones compound our long and strong Chief Executive growth prospects are less exciting.
income and to enhance its repetitive, reliable and secure characteristics.
These actions have put us on the right We expect this strategy to outperform side of the changing retail landscape more traditional hyper-active and consequently we expect to be development and trading models a strong beneciary.
We believe Our portfolio is positioned around where volatile and uncertain returns that the favourable demand supply strong fundamentals of owning are diluted by income interruption metrics for logistics will exist for some highly desirable assets, let to good and frictional costs.
time, leading to high occupancy, companies and where over time long leases and attractive income.
Technological advancement and the income will grow.
innovation is having a profound Our portfolio is positioned around impact on many businesses as they strong fundamentals of owning highly attempt to remain relevant in an desirable assets that are benefiting evolving world where the pace of from structural trends, let to good change is accelerating.
The real companies and where, over time, the Distribution weighting estate sector is not immune.
income will grow and the returns will compound.
This will allow us to deliver In recent years, we have seen a ongoing dividend growth over the significant shift in consumer shopping next few years.
70% habits, with customer expectations of efficiency, speed and convenience by next year driving omni-channel retailing.
This has signicantly increased the proportion of non food retail sales online, which is expected to reach 26% by 2020 compared to just 13% in 2011: a growth rate of 10% per annum.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Behaving as a REIT three urban logistics reviews with an average uplift of 16.9% on a five yearly With interest rates hovering not far from equivalent basis.
all time lows, and a growing number of We continue to maintain our very people retiring every year, the demand This demonstrates not only the strong portfolio metrics.
for alternative sources of income is on attractive dynamics of our buildings but the rise.
increasingly the growing importance that occupiers are putting on logistics We take comfort in having made the and fullment.
right structural calls, focusing on income and income growth, and our alignment Structural changes impacting to the logistics sector will continue to shopping habits and provide a highly repetitive, predictable occupierdemand and reliable income stream and deliver Average lease lengths on Technology is disrupting many long exactly what a REIT was designed to do.
newlettings established industries and real estate Ten years on from the introduction of isno exception.
REITs, its notable how few companies have fully embraced the REIT structure.
Structural trends in consumer behaviour and shopping patterns continue to 18 years Our income focus remains central drive retail sales online leading to c. 10% to our investment thesis and we aim per annum online growth.
to own assets where the net income exceeds the dividend and the Retailers are therefore increasingly terminal value will be higher committing more of their capital in five years time.
expenditure into improving the efficiencies of their fullment Our ultimate priority is to pass on operation with more investment in income generated from our tenants 26% digital infrastructure and distribution to our shareholders in the form of a warehousing.
Today, it is estimated of non food retail dividend.
Since merger in 2013, our that retailers and third party logistics EPRA earnings have grown from 3.9p sales are expected operators account for 60-70% of all to 8.2p per share, which has allowed distribution warehousing real estate to be online by 2020 us to not only cover our dividend take up.
comfortably but also progress it compared to just 13% for the second year running.
The benchmark continues to be set by in 2011 Amazon which doubled its UK logistics Enhancing our strong footprint in 2016 and accounted for portfolio metrics c. 20% of take up in 2016.
The urban We continue to maintain our very logistics infrastructure that they are strong portfolio metrics with long building is evidence of the importance average lease lengths of 12.8 years, they attach to same day, even same high occupancy at 99.6%, high gross hour, delivery, something that the rest to net income ratio of 98.6% and with of the market will also have to address only 1.2% of our rent due to expire in to stay competitive.
Over 50% of our The impact of this evolution on portfolio is now subject to contractual traditional retail has never been more rental increases.
pronounced and, as retailers seek to Continued renement of our portfolio right size their store portfolios, their has delivered a strong performance in demand for physical retail space falls.
the year with a total property return of There is clearly going to be pain felt 7.4%, outperforming the IPD All Property across the sector as retailers continue by 280bps, and ERV growth of 3.8%.
to adjust to the growth of online shopping.
Department stores and These robust metrics are reective of apparel retailers feel the most at risk, our sector calls, the strength of our and whilst the stronger destinations occupier relationships and the high will inevitably fare better, even the occupier appeal of our real estate.
owners of super-prime locations will In the year, we delivered 69 asset not be immune, as they have to deal management activities generating with increasing polarisation, impending like for like income growth of 4.6%.
lease expiries, building obsolescence New lettings achieved an average and or tenant defaults.
lease length of 18.2 years, helped The property markets are increasingly by new leases to Amazon, Michelin aware of the shifting tectonic plates and Eddie Stobart.
Open market rent and are beginning to price in reviews on distribution assets were these changes.
particularly strong and we settled 14 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review continued Aligning our portfolio further four to five years of land available to towards distribution through accommodate warehouse demand.
Urban logistics portfolio investment and development These macro trends and attractive We have been a significant beneciary dynamics have seen investor demand of an early move into the logistics and for the asset class increase globally.
161m distribution sectors where demand Despite a more competitive landscape supply dynamics have strengthened across 23 assets we have again made strong progress in considerably over recent years.
growing our footprint across this sector, Our strategy is aligned to the structural whilst remaining patient, disciplined benets of the distribution sector and rational.
whilst overlaying a tactical approach Over the year, we acquired a further to ensure we invest in the sub sector 107.0 million of new distribution that offers the most compelling Acquisition yield on our urban investments and developments investment proposition.
logisticsinvestments at an average yield of 6.2%.
After a record year for distribution take As at the year end, our distribution up in 2016, occupier demand remains portfolio was valued at 950.2 million, strong across the UK.
Supply remains 6.2% which represented 62% of our whole highly restricted, there is limited portfolio, against 54% a year ago.
100bps higher than speculative development and This has increased to 64% including estimates suggest that there is only Big Box assets postperiod end activity.
Distribution investments Urban logistics is an essential part of modern logistics and 107m enables the retailer to get closer to itspointof delivery and full shoppers, in particular millennials, Increasing focus ordersquickly.
account for a larger proportion of onurbanlogistics retail spend.
Half of shopping by As part of our end to end logistics millennials is expected to be online strategy, our investment focus in the by 2019. year was on building our platform inurban logistics.
Vacancy across the urban logistics market is already very low and new Urban logistics is an essential part supply is very limited, especially of modern distribution and enables around the major UK cities.
the retailer and parcel operator to According to the UK Warehousing get closer to its point of delivery and Association, there has been a full orders quickly.
Operators are 46% reduction of industrial space increasingly looking to move closer across Greater London since 1980. totheir end customer, albeit there This is expected to fall by a further aresome severe supply constraints.
The functionality of urban logistics Achieving scale in this sub-sector has evolved from a location which is not easy, which in itself creates previously stored products to an barriers to entry.
Over the year, our operation today that is designed urban logistics portfolio increased to maximise speed of delivery.
from eight to 23 assets valued at Rising consumer expectations have 160.8 million, the majority of which reduced average delivery times are located around major UK cities.
down from 28 days to just a few days, We have made a further 23.9 million with next day delivery now common.
of acquisitions since the year end and Looking forward, delivery times are expect this portfolio to grow quickly to likely to fall further as expectations c. 250 million in value.
grow and more demanding younger Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Distribution developments completed in the year 0.9m sq ft We have previously commented This will become a major automated We also completed a 53,000 sq ft on the very attractive property fullment centre for Amazon and will distribution facility in Crawley, which fundamentals underpinning the employ c. 1,200 people.
is let to furniture retailer Barker & strong pricing of mega and regional Stonehouse on a new 15 year lease.
Investing further in that market has therefore been less compelling of late and we have shifted our sights togrowing our exposure through well located short cycle development opportunities, where the returns aresignicantly more attractive.
In Wakeeld, our 527,000 sq ft development completed in September 2016.
This was pre-let to Poundworld on a new 15 year lease with contracted rental uplifts linked to RPI.
In Warrington, our 357,000 sq ft regional distribution development completed in November 2016.
Above: Our 527,000 sq ft development for Poundworld in Wakeeld Five weeks later we let the building to The warehouse was developed at a yield of 6.3%.
Poundworld signed a 15 year lease with Amazon on a new 15 year lease with the rent subject to five yearly compounded RPI rent reviews between 2.5-5.0%.
The building contracted rental uplifts linked to CPI.
Distribution developments under construction 0.6m sq ft We continue to look at relling our development hopper but will only do so where the demand supply dynamics are attractive and our exposure to market timings are short.
Therefore to minimise development risk, we only commit to developments once planning consent has been received and once pre-lets are agreed or where we have strong confidence of a letting before practical completion.
Today, we are committed to 0.6 million sq ft of developments Above: 137,000 sq ft development for Michelin in Stoke at Dagenham, Stoke and Crawley Michelin has signed a new 15 year lease with five yearly rent reviews, at the higher of delivering an anticipated yield on open market and guaranteed xed uplifts.
The anticipated yield on cost is 6.3% and we cost of 6.2%.
We have secured preare leveraging our occupier relationships to progress a full build out of the 277,000 sq ft lettings on over half of the space.
The building will be rated BREEAM Very Good.
16 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chief Executives review continued Further reducing Opportunistic retail acquisitions ourretailportfolio Retail disposals We fully recognise the competitive Our further push in the distribution nature of the retail market and sector has largely been funded therefore increasingly view this by the sale of mature retail parks sector opportunistically.
We will 128m where business plans have been therefore limit our involvement to new fully executed.
convenience food opportunities and those where we partner with our retail Despite the political and economic customers in securing new outlets uncertainty, we have continued that they consider integral to growing to see strong buying interest for their business.
our assets with our retail disposals totalling 127.6 million.
These disposals Over the period we completed the Retail park weighting crystallised a geared IRR, on average, development of seven convenience of 13%.
retail stores mainly let to Aldi and M&S.
The average yield on cost for all of As a result of this activity our retail our retail developments was 6.7% and 13% park weighting has halved over the theaverage lease length achieved last two years to 13% of the overall halved over two years was 13.4 years.
We will continue to monetise further retail assets upon completion During the year, we also acquired of various asset management two single let retail assets for our initiatives during the year.
long income MIPP Joint Venture at an average yield of 6.8% and with Post year end, we disposed of our alease length of over 15 years.
Morrisons foodstore in Loughborough for 32.5 million, reecting a net initial yield of 4.3% and a profit on cost of26.0%.
Retail park disposal at Kings Lynn Above: 74,000sqftretail parkin Kings Lynn sold for 24.0 million at a NIY of 5.8% The property was purchased in 2011 for 15.1 million and has undergone complete refurbishment with six new lettings to Next, B&M, DFS, Tapi, Poundland and Greggs.
Since purchase, the rental income has increased by 47% and the WAULT has risen from 4.3 years to 13.3 years.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Finances strengthened In addition, our 95 million equity raising anddiversied in the year has given us the exibility to US private debt placement accelerate our distribution investments Our nancing arrangements remain and developments without impacting aligned to our property strategy and on our conservative approach we have continued to strengthen our 130m to gearing.
debt facilities with new lenders and exible arrangements.
2.7% blended As at 31 March, LTV was 30%, average debt maturity was 5.2 years and our cost During the year, we entered into a coupon of debt was 3.5% with a marginal cost 130 million private debt placement on drawing further debt of just 1.5%.
at a blended coupon of 2.7% and a weighted average maturity of 8.3 years.
This increased headroom LTV reduced available under our facilities which, asat 31 March 2017, was 299.7 million.
30% as at year end Our disciplined Outlook investmentapproach The sustained low interest rate and uncertain environment has driven strong We focus on demand for long duration assets with stable cash ows that are less sensitive toeconomic cycles.
achieving attractive However, not all income is the same.
Whilst strong and sustainable income with risk-adjusted returns structural support will endure, weak and over-rented income will be exposed which are structurally as structurally challenged assets see their income shortening.
We are therefore increasingly wary over the pricing of some assets where cash ows are at risk supported and from continuing defensive capital expenditure and ongoing structural change.
underpin a steady The yield gap between the very good and the poor assets has arguably compressed too far.
As such we believe that structural changes will put some long term income ofthese capitalisation rates under outward pressure.
return prole Our disciplined investment approach continues to focus on delivering attractive risk-adjusted returns which are structurally supported and underpin a steady long term income return prole for our shareholders.
We will behave rationally through maintaining a margin of safety in our actions whilst retaining appropriate portfolio liquidity and exibility.
We continue to see attractive investment opportunities where we can leverage our relationships and expertise, and we remain confident in our business model and ability to deliver on our strategic objectives and priorities.
