Chief Executives review The past year has been one of significant strategic progress in reshaping and simplifying the business.
Our Retail networks business delivered a profit before tax of 53.3 million, an increase of 0.5 million.
This was driven by growth in net revenue from retail services of 9.6 million, but offset by a decline in bill payments and top-ups of 2.8 million and additional investment costs arising from PayPoint One, EPoS and MultiPay development and deployment.
In total this financial year we paid 78.5 million to shareholders by means of the 29.5 million ordinary dividend, the first instalment of the additional dividend of 8.3 million and the return of 40.7 million from the proceeds of the sale of Online and Mobile.
Our business model continues to be highly cash generative with 42.2 million of cash generated from operating activities in the year.
We have restructured the Group, with a new Executive Business model Board in place and a focused single company vision, set We have unrivalled strength in convenience retail of values and culture which together will drive ongoing payments and services with over 40,000 outlets across improvements in effectiveness and customer service.
In both markets our business has We have rationalised the portfolio of businesses within the two highly complementary business streams, payments Group, with the sale of Online in January 2016 for 14.3 and retail services.
These operate from a common retail million being followed in the year to 31 March 2017 by the servicing capability and secure technology infrastructure.
sale of Mobile to VW Financial Services for 26.5 million.
This technology platform and our site network form the We have also concluded our discussions with Yodel, with foundation from which we will drive future value.
a new Collect arrangement agreed that enables PayPoint to add new carriers to our UK retail services offering.
Our first business stream, payments, provides convenient bill payment channels for the customers of major utilities We continue to focus on the needs of our retail customers.
The PayPoint network supports the This year we launched our next generation terminal, PayPoint broadest range of payment types including bills, energy One, which received positive early feedback, and at 31 March prepayments, mobile and eMoney top-ups, licences, rents, 2017 there were 3,600 sites operational.
The terminal, with taxes, transport tickets, debt collection, deposits and enhanced functionality, changes the proposition we can offer repayments.
We also pay out cash benefits and rebates.
retailers and is a critical milestone for the business.
We are In payments, our retail partners are our distributors, earning excited about the growth potential from the rollout of the commission and benefiting from the hundreds of millions new terminal across our retail network alongside the other of customer visits we generate.
Some customers prefer to initiatives underway in the business.
pay online and our MultiPay product extends to mobile app, Our financial results reflect the refocusing of the business website, IVR and text payments so we can help our clients with reported profit before tax of 69.1 million 2016: to help customers pay in the way that suits them best.
8.2 million, including the profit on the sale of Mobile to Our second business area builds on the strength of our retail VW Financial Services of 19.5 million partially offset by networks and our technology, enabling us to provide multiple the loss of 3.8 million on the restructure of the Collect retail services to retailers.
These additional services are arrangement with Yodel.
The 2016 year included impairment highly competitive offers to retailers, charging fees for some charges on Mobile and Online of 49.0 million.
services and earning commission for others.
The range of This financial year also saw several non-recurring items, retail services is already extensive but we continually innovate some of which will impact our operating profit performance to generate new revenue streams.
Our retail partners, in in the financial year to 31 March 2018.
These include a turn, are able to offer their customers a widening range of non-recurring VAT recovery of 2.0 million included in retail convenience payment products and services which keeps services, the agreement to reduce Yodel parcel fees by them coming into the store.
The principal retail services are 3.0 million over the next 3 years effective from December ATMs, card and other non-cash electronic payment solutions, 2016, and the closure by the Department for Work and Western Union agencies, SIM card sales, parcels and EPoS.
Pensions DWP of their Simple Payment Service which has As noted above, we have recently renegotiated the terms of been generating over 4.0 million in net revenue per annum.
our parcels joint arrangement with Yodel, to allow PayPoint to 1.
Retail networks consists of our UK, Ireland and Romanian retail businesses.
A reconciliation, for each measure, from the statutory results to retail networks is included in note 4 to the financial statements.
Net revenue is an alternative performance measure.
Refer to note 3 to the financial statements for a reconciliation to revenue.
10 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS open the Collect network to other carriers.
Our intention is For independents, we offer a standalone terminal.
Most of to create the definitive industry solution, allowing consumers our retailers have our second generation yellow machine to pick up and drop off parcels at their local shop irrespective T2 that has been deployed since 2003.
Last year we of the carrier.
Retail services have continued to grow strongly launched PayPoint One, a transformational terminal in recent years and this business area is becoming increasingly platform, with a full range of connectivity options including significant within our business mix.
WiFi and Bluetooth, which we will rollout across our estate over the next few years.
With PayPoint One, we In payments, we remain committed to delivering our strategy have also introduced a new EPoS capability which has which is focused on delivering multichannel payments seen encouraging uptake to date and that we expect to solutions and services to our customers where we have be a platform for significant future growth.
In retail services, we see significant growth provides our retailers with the ability to serve customers opportunities for our unique retailer network and our quickly, while providing advanced connectivity and differentiated and established technology platform to benefit improving business efficiency all within a flexible and fullyfrom the high street evolution towards convenience.
In order to execute our strategy, we have set out five clear Each of our retail services has its own market context and priorities for the year ahead: competitive dynamics, which are explained briefly here: ATMs we provide 4,100 ATMs out of an overall population in the LINK network of 70,000, of which 52,000 are 1.
Drive profitable growth in UK retail services 2 non-bank branch machines.
Our machines are typically located in-store and are filled by our retailers using their Market context own cash, including much of the money collected from PayPoints services are particularly attractive to the our bill payments.
We offer both free to use and surcharge convenience retail sector, which includes newsagents, machines with most new deployments being free to use.
general convenience stores, off licences and petrol station In general, cash withdrawal volumes are expected to forecourts.
We are also complementary to the convenience decline steadily as the use of cash is eroded by contactless offers of larger format supermarkets.
However, while this decline is reflected in a rise in relationship with retailers through our field sales force of bank branch closures, growth in non-bank branch ATMs has 50 professionals located throughout the UK and through continued and PayPoints position in the market gives us our contact centre which is situated in Welwyn Garden plenty of scope to grow.
We also hold quarterly Retailer Forums attended Card Payments we provide 10,000 of our retailers with by PayPoint retailers and management to ensure open their in-store card payment solutions including Chip and dialogue and communication.
PIN and contactless cards and mobile schemes such as PayPoint has payment relationships extending to over 29,000 Apple and Android Pay.
We earn a margin on each payment UK outlets drawn from an available market of approximately through revenue share arrangements with merchant 51,000 stores comprising 37,500 independents of which acquirers.
In common with the market generally, we have 14,000 are symbol-affiliated stores and 13,500 multiple and been experiencing very strong contactless payment managed symbol stores.
These 51,000 stores are PayPoints growth.
These payments have a lower transaction value, core marketplace, with growth and any extension beyond earning us slightly less per transaction but for a much the convenience sector also representing an opportunity greater volume.
This is a highly competitive market with for our retail services.
Historically, PayPoint has restricted many offers from merchant acquirers and intermediaries.
supply of its branded payments footfall rather than looking Money Transfer we provide 1,100 outlets in the UK with to achieve blanket coverage of the entire convenience retail Western Union agencies to serve the international money sector.
As a result, PayPoint retailers are typically of good transfer market.
This is a value-added, rather than strategic, quality, desired by our clients and envied by our competitors.
service and we expect to remain a minor player.
Overall, PayPoint pays our retailers over 50 million annually in commission for their critical role in our payments and retail SIM sales we are selling mobile phone SIMs to 15,000 services delivery.
outlets and have approximately a 6% market share, making a strong net revenue contribution.
We earn commissions Our retailers can be segmented into 3 broad sub-groups.
based on the top-up values on activated SIMs which We have 8,500 outlets that are in multiple chains, including we share with our retailers, and bonuses for achieving The Co-op, McColls, One Stop and many other fuel and predetermined targets.
We also have coverage in all Asda stores, many Sainsburys Locals and increasingly in Tesco EPoS this is a new market for PayPoint which we entered Express, as even the major grocers see the power of our in June last year, with a price scanning solution built on the footfall generation.
The balance of our network is Android tablet characteristics of PayPoint One, with its in independents, who may be unaffiliated or linked to a large interactive screen, ergonomic design and advanced symbol group such as Spar, Costcutter, Nisa or Booker scanning capability.
PayPoint One provides an integrated Premier.
We have 11,500 unaffiliated independents, out all-in-one solution, combining EPoS with card payments, of 23,500 in the UK and a further 9,000 symbol affiliated bill payments, proprietary hardware, cloud management, outlets out of 15,400 independent and managed symbol business intelligence, service support and Android stores in the UK.
applications to support our retailers businesses.
We expect our EPoS solution to be attractive to the independent To serve multiples, we deploy our PPoS solution, a virtual sector, many of whom may be first time users, but we also terminal that integrates into the retailers own EPoS system expect strong symbol group adoption when we launch for maximum operational efficiency.
our Pro version in summer 2017.
The Pro version will have 1.
Source: Association of Convenience Stores, Local Shop Report, September 2016 2. www.
co. uk about-link statistics PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 11 Chief Executives review continued sophisticated stock management and ordering capability, 2.
Deliver parcels volume growth in the UK managed in the cloud, representing a step change in EPoS market technology.
We are also currently putting in Market context place the necessary links, to integrate with symbol group We provide 6,100 outlets with our Collect service, our joint wholesalers, to make the product more attractive.
arrangement with Yodel, a leading carrier.
Collect was the There are numerous EPoS providers in the UK typically first successful parcel collections and returns retail network in serving more than one vertical, such as retail and hospitality.
The service has subsequently been In convenience retailing, EPoS provision is more fragmented copied by several other carriers but has not been matched outside of the suppliers to the multiple chains.
Suppliers in scale or customer popularity.
This is a large market: IMRG service a few thousand locations at most and often working states there are 250 million parcel returns a year and 165 with legacy software sitting on older Microsoft Windows million click & collect parcels, both growing rapidly.
platforms, with localised back office functions which do not Progress in the year take advantage of cloud technology.
EPoS products tend Collect is available in over 6,100 sites and the number to carry an upfront hardware investment, with additional of parcels processed in the year was over 23 million.
charges for installation and ongoing fees for service, support Collect has gained a Trust Pilot score of 9.2 out of 10 and licensing.
As a consequence take up can be limited.
and is now a trusted and well regarded consumer brand.
With PayPoints modern technology and no upfront fees The restructured terms of the Collect joint arrangement for the hardware, we expect to make inroads into this market are now in place.
In return for a reduced transaction fee, and have been encouraged by the early take up.
PayPoint is no longer exclusively tied to using Yodel and Overall, the launch of PayPoint One integrates PayPoints now has the opportunity to extend the network of carriers payments stream with card payments and EPoS into a we work with.
single leading edge hardware device.
Our retail services Future delivery success over many years has built a balanced portfolio PayPoint has an exciting opportunity to capture a significant of strong and highly competitive products with a good share of the market.
We have appointed a new Parcel mix of strategic and tactical services across high growth Services Director with a significant track record in the parcels and maturing markets.
The market leading qualities of market to lead our efforts to capture new volumes.
the PayPoint One platform will enable us to significantly increase our revenue over time by charging fees for the In the coming years, we expect strong growth with many more platform and its EPoS capabilities.
outlets and millions of extra parcels as the new approach beds in, supported by strong continuing delivery from our existing Progress in year partner, Yodel.
The new approach has come at a short-term Overall, retail services accounted for 36% of UK net cost as we have agreed to progressively reduce fees received revenues, generating 39.0 million net revenue which from Yodel by 3.0 million over three years.
On a like-for-like represented growth of 30.9% on the previous year.
volume basis, this is expected to impact the year to 31 March We enjoyed continued growth in ATMs, card payments 2018 by 1.7 million with a further 1.0 million impact in the and SIMs net revenues.
We also secured a VAT recovery year to 31 March 2019. of 2.4 million in card payments.
The recurring net revenue benefit from the corrected treatment is approximately 1.0 million per annum.
Optimise profits in UK bill payments and We launched PayPoint One and installed over 3,600 topups new terminals of which 60% have EPoS activated, with the remainder opting just to upgrade from our second generation terminal to use our Till App.
We have also largely Market context completed our EPoS Pro development for testing ahead Payments have traditionally been PayPoints most successful of launch in a few months time and have secured our first business area and we have developed a market leadership symbol group integration agreements.
position in payment collection through convenience retail outlets.
Our UK network numbers 29,100 sites, meaning that Future Delivery we are in the majority of available convenience retail outlets We expect to achieve a PayPoint One network size of and we handle approximately 500 million transactions per 8,000 sites by March 2018 with high levels of EPoS and annum through the network to a value of 9.0 billion.
This will include symbol retailers as the Pro version of EPoS is launched and wholesaler There are over 4.9 billion regular consumer payments a links are implemented.
Nisa is the first symbol retailer to year, but the majority of these are made by direct debit contract to be integrated with our EPoS Pro platform through the banks, which would be the billers preferred and we expect to sign others soon.
Our card payments collection method.
However, this does not suit all volume should continue to grow strongly.
We will focus on customers.
PayPoints strength is in serving the millions of protecting margins in a fiercely competitive market fuelled householders, who prefer to pay their bills in cash over the by the growth in contactless payments, which has made counter.
This has been a resilient sector which has fuelled the convenience sector increasingly attractive.
This year we our growth despite the long-term steady decline in cash as plan to extend our net settlement capability from ATMs to a payment method in the UK economy, relative to electronic card payments which should be a unique differentiator for and card payments.
PayPoint by off-setting our retailers banking costs.
PayPoint has always been particularly strong in energy We will be investing in our ATM network to continue to payments as the breadth of our coverage in convenience expand our presence throughout our retail network and retail outlets, combined with extended opening hours, to upgrade legacy hardware.
provides an ideal solution for those who need to quickly 1.
Payments UK: 2016 UK Payments Markets Summary 12 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Retailer pledge We will: 4 s upport and respect 4 a lways innovate to improve you and deliver first our products and services class service and the value we bring to your business 4 l isten and communicate 4 c hampion the importance openly so we can of convenience retailers and understand and respond the challenges you face to your needs and conveniently switch their energy back on.
Growth in a consequence of the two year government electricity rebate the prepay energy sector peaked four years ago when a scheme coming to an end.
Top-up transactions declined combination of factors including high tariffs, cold weather, 15.3% as a result of the continuing long-term decline in UK high energy debts and high prepay meter installation rates mobile top-ups.
Payments account for 64% of overall UK net created strong demand.
Recently, however, growth has revenues.
Net revenues held up better than volumes as bigger slowed, as the impact of these factors has reduced.
clients lost share to challengers, benefiting our pricing mix.
We expect that the introduction of smart meters, which MultiPay volumes have been growing strongly and we has been subject to delays in commissioning by the Data handled 10.3 million payments, up 4.9 million from last year, Communications Company DCC, will open more digital through our non-retail digital channels.
We have also recently payment options for consumers, and that payments by app completed the implementation for SSE, our first big 6 energy or website will erode some cash volumes in prepay mode.
The service is also proving particularly As of 31 December 2016, there was a total of 22.8 million attractive to some of the main challengers in the energy gas meters and 27.5 million electricity meters operated by market as well as smaller suppliers.
At the end of the financial large and small energy suppliers in domestic properties year, 15 clients had contracted to use the service.
Active smart meters gas and electric We have had a steady stream of new business and have accounted for 4.9 million of the total number of meters, added 67 new schemes in the year including, for the first an increase of 2.9 million compared to 2015.
In order to time, local authorities deciding to work with us directly and address this opportunity, PayPoint has been developing its exclusively, having previously split their volumes across the MultiPay service in recent years and is well placed to serve Post Office and PayPoint.
We have also added clients for retail and digital payments through an integrated platform digital voucher services, including a new arrangement with for energy clients.
Amazon which is still in its early days.
From 1 April 2017, the Competition and Markets Authority We also went live with our new FCA regulated Payment has introduced a price cap for prepayment customers which Institution, PayPoint Payment Services Limited, which it estimates will reduce households heating bills by on allows us to provide certain regulated payment services average 75 a year.
It is too early to fully understand the and to extend the range of our CashOut services.
impact this will have on PayPoint, however we estimate each prepay customers average top-up value is around 15 a visit.
Future delivery The payments business is likely to continue to be affected The slowdown in the energy payments sector and by the uncertainty relating to smart meters and the general uncertainty around smart meters, combined with the longer long-term decline of cash and top-ups.
However, there is term decline in mobile top-ups and in cash as a payment a strong residual demand for cash payment that we will method in the UK economy, means that we anticipate continue to serve successfully and expand where possible, reducing net revenue in PayPoints traditional sectors.
with new schemes and products for our customers.
As more As a result, our focus is on maximising profitability in UK challenger businesses take share from the big traditional bill payments and top-ups, managing margins and cashflow suppliers, we would also expect to see some margin through both continuing innovation and a relentless focus benefits through less revenue concentration.
We have also on business process and cost efficiency.
been able to renegotiate terms with retailers and symbol Progress in year groups, improving margin, as a result of the diminishing Bill payment volumes reduced by 6.6% in the year because importance of mobile top-up volumes.
of softening energy prepay and a reduction in CashOut transactions.
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy: Smart Meters Quarterly Report to end December 2016 2.
Competition and Markets Authority: Modernising the energy market 24 June 2016 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 13 Chief Executives review continued We expect the year ahead to be adversely affected by a 5. Business optimisation recent decision of the DWP to discontinue its Simple Payment Service from this summer, for which we have been the retail Our refocus on our retail businesses has highlighted partner.
Unfortunately, the service has been a victim of its opportunities for us to invest in tools and capabilities own success in migrating customers away from the traditional to enable our client and field teams to more effectively girocheque into other methods, giving the DWP the ability to sell a portfolio of products.
This service has generated revenue for PayPoint of over 4 million per annum historically.
In conjunction with the rollout of PayPoint One, we have also publicly pledged to our UK retailers that we intend to PayPoint will continue to handle hundreds of millions deliver first class servicing of their requirements through of payments for the UKs leading consumer service the entire lifecycle of on-boarding, operational support organisations and payments will remain a critical element and status changes.
This will require us to invest in efficient in our business mix going forward.
Our unique payments workflow and billing systems with accurate and timely portfolio is central to the popularity of our brand with supporting information, for our retailers and ourselves, retailers and consumers and provides the platform on so we can serve them effectively.
which our retail services are thriving.
In addition, we are well placed to drive further MultiPay growth with more We are making a considerable investment of 4.0 million over challengers, our first volumes for a big 6 supplier and 18 months in these tools and capabilities but are expecting the potential to extend into other bill payment sectors, significant improvements in sales and operational efficiencies.
We are also reviewing our processes to ensure we are innovating efficiently and driving maximum return for our investments in product and technology.
Drive continued organic growth in Romania Outlook We have made good progress in reshaping the business, Market context including the disposal of Mobile and Online.
This enables PayPoint Romania follows a similar business model to the greater focus on our retail network specifically by providing UK, but in a market in which cash bill payment is a mass EPoS solutions to our retailers and on pursuing a multimarket proposition.
Over 10 years, PayPoint has become carrier strategy for parcels, both of which are exciting one of Romanias most successful and popular financial prospects going forward.
In time I believe there will be brands, handling on average 24% of our clients payments.
opportunities to further extend our geographic footprint, We expect cash to be the dominant bill payment method leveraging the scale and capability of our platform, however well into the future.
The range of payments solutions international expansion will be a lower priority for the offered by PayPoint is extensive including energy, telecoms immediate future.
and pay TV bills, road tax, eMoney vouchers, insurance premiums and loan repayments.
As in the UK, we work To support our growth agenda, we are making incremental with all the leading suppliers.
investment in capabilities and tools to improve our sales productivity, foster continued innovation, accelerate Romania is also a strong remittance market, mainly as commercial deployment and deliver greater operational receivers of payments from overseas.
As in the UK, we work efficiencies.
with the market leaders Western Union in what is still a high growth sector.
For the current financial year, we expect robust net revenue growth in UK retail services and Romania.
This will Progress in year broadly offset the impact of our additional investments, We have continued to make strong organic progress in the the reduced fees earned from Yodel and the expected year growing our net revenues in Romania to 9.1 million, continuing net revenue reduction in UK cash payments, an increase of 28.2% on the prior year.
Our retail network including the ending of the Simple Payment Scheme and has grown to 11,300 sites and includes strong representation the changing energy market dynamics.
from independents and multiples, including Profi, Cora and Carrefour.
We enjoyed record volumes of 75 million We are confident that PayPoint is well positioned to transactions, including growth in mobile top-ups, not just continue to drive sustainable medium-term earnings bill payments.
growth, generate cash and support superior returns to shareholders.
Future delivery The Romanian payments market continues to evolve with Dominic Taylor clients moving away from the local post office creating further Chief Executive opportunities for us.
We will continue to expand our market 25 May 2017 share with existing clients and to add new clients.
In the year, we successfully added our first local authority which we will use as a case study to entice other local authorities.
We plan to extend our retailer services offering in Romania.
We are trialling a parcels service, Colet Expres, in Bucharest, working with the leading Romanian carrier, FAN courier.
The home shopping market in Romania is still developing and is generally based on cash on delivery, but we are excited about the opportunity the parcels service presents.
In addition, we are trialling a card payment service for retailers.
We currently have an agreed offer to buy Payzone in Romania, which is subject to competition authority approval.
