Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Key Sustainability Performance Indicator Performance in 2015 16 Performance in 2016 17 Target in 2017 18 HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS Complaints per million units sold 24 19 Maintain the downward trend Number of suppliers linked to SEDEX 294 407 Continue the upward trend Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare Tier 2 Tier 1 Maintain Tier 1 WE ASPIRE TO BE THE MANUFACTURER OF CHOICE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS: RENOWNED FOR PRODUCT QUALITY We take a leadership role within the wider They are strategically placed in three of the During the year, Crowns Weybread poultry AND INNOVATION, TECHNICAL INTEGRITY, COMPLIANCE, industry with our Group Technical Director UKs largest pig breeding and rearing regions.
site processed an average of 500,000 birds being an active member of the BMPA Council Close supply chain proximity ensures that per week up 7 per cent on the previous year.
FOOD SAFETY AND ANIMAL WELFARE.
and Chairman of the technical committee animal transportation times from farm to The site is a key supplier of chicken to our responsible for the development of the processing facility are minimised with resulting Hull cooked poultry site and third party retail BMPA Pork Schemes which are the assurance, welfare and food mile reduction benefits.
Fully integrated traceability and product quality standards supply chain proximity ensures that animal Our production facilities are some of the We recently celebrated our 126th consecutive RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN that sit behind the Red Tractor logo displayed Our agricultural team is working with several transportation times from farm to processing best invested and most efficient in the UK Grade A or better rating against the British Ensuring responsible purchasing on pork and pork meat products.
Our Group retailer specific pig producer groups on facility are minimised, with all broiler farms and include the most modern and efficient Retail Consortium BRC Global Standard We are committed to ensuring the integrity Technical Compliance Controller represents rearing systems, breed development, welfare, within 25 miles of the processing facility.
pig processing facility in the country.
This record of technical and traceability of raw materials, including the BMPA on the BRC working group sustainability, environment and ethical All of the chickens we process come from excellence stretches back to 2005 and is one the meat, ingredients and packaging we responsible for the development of the standards.
Projects include: our own farms.
It is the combination of our people, facilities, which we believe to be sector leading.
All our use in the manufacture of our products.
collaborating with Bishop Burton approach and policies, and customer focus manufacturing sites have elected to have raw material suppliers and 5,847 products Agricultural College on animal behaviour The map below provides an overview of that enable us to remain the key supplier and their BRC audits carried out unannounced.
and associated specifications are approved Animal welfare and welfare: farm locations and distances travelled by category champion to a large number of UK and controlled centrally by Group Technical Many of the pigs supplied to us are reared researching links between animal feed pigs and chickens from those farms to our and international clients as well as being a Many of our pork products fully comply with Services GTS.
Suppliers are approved to higher welfare standards associated with and pork eating quality: and processing sites: preferred partner on key technical initiatives the Red Tractor Assurance Scheme and the either by an independent third party audit, outdoor bred or outdoor reared production developing industry best practice and projects.
British Meat Processors Association BMPA such as the BRC Global Standard for Food methods.
Approximately 30 per cent of those guidance on the use of antibiotics.
Pork and Pork Meat Product standards.
This Safety, or by audits carried out by members processed by our Hull primary processing Preston, near Hull PRODUCT QUALITY AND INNOVATION compliance gives consumers the confidence of our GTS team.
Our expectations of our facility and 70 per cent at our Norfolk facility 35% within 25 miles We have a clear strategic focus on positioning that our products are produced within an suppliers are clearly laid out in our Technical are reared to the exacting requirements of 55% within 40 miles ourselves in the premium and super-premium assured supply chain: to specified standards: Conditions of Supply and our audit frequency the RSPCA Freedom Foods welfare standard.
66% within 50 miles tiers of our product categories and this and traceable all the way back to British Red is based on risk assessment, supply chain The balance of pigs processed are reared 73% within 60 miles continues to underpin the success of the Tractor assured farms.
threat analysis, horizon scanning for known indoors in full compliance with the Red business.
We work closely with our customers or emerging risks and previous supply record.
Tractor BMPA Quality Assured Pork BQAP Norfolk to develop premium product solutions to meet Compliance integrity is challenged by third In the last twelve months we carried out 230 welfare standards.
All of our chickens are 46% within 25 miles the changing demands of the UK consumer.
party announced and unannounced audits supply chain audits to assure the safety, reared indoors in full compliance with the 86% within 40 miles which incorporate traceability, mass balance traceability, quality and provenance of the Red Tractor welfare standards.
90% within 50 miles We have dedicated teams exploring and isotope provenance testing to confirm raw materials we use within our business.
95% within 60 miles consumer trends and food innovation origin.
We also produce organic products The 2016 Business Benchmark on Farm Animal opportunities across the globe.
We that are subject to an in-depth traceability We are addressing the wider challenges Welfare BBFAW report provides an account Ballymena constantly research and test new recipes and review carried out by independent auditors associated with preventing DNA crossof how animal welfare is being managed by 19% within 25 miles ideas allowing us to deliver unique product working on behalf of The Soil Association.
contamination during the manufacture of leading food companies around the world.
43% within 40 miles offerings to our customers with enhanced single species products in multi-species The development of the Benchmark is funded 51% within 50 miles flavours and improved eating quality.
In the year under review our Group Technical factories and we have been proactive by Compassion in World Farming and World 76% within 60 miles See pages 8 and 12 for further details.
Compliance team completed 642 separate in supporting the BMPA and the Food Animal Protection and is a global measure internal compliance audits against the BRC Standards Agency FSA in their work with of food businesses commitment to animal Weybread MEETING EXTERNAL STANDARDS standard, retailer policy, Hazard and Critical industry stakeholders.
We have an extensive welfare.
Now in its third year the benchmark 100% within 25 miles Our facilities undergo exacting technical Control Point HACCP, hygiene inspections, risk-based DNA screening programme for has continued to evolve and challenge the audits carried out by independent auditing and ethical standards.
This programme is not raw materials used and finished products industrys commitment to animal welfare.
bodies, customers, government authorities only there to identify non-compliance but is produced by our business.
In the last year we We are therefore proud to be one of only six and our own technical compliance teams.
also a means to proactively highlight best spent more than 2 million on the laboratory companies worldwide to have achieved the During the year we hosted 486 separate practice and shared learning across the screening of our products and raw materials highest Tier 1 status, which endorses our external compliance audits and associated Group which is a fundamental building to ensure compliance, provenance and safety.
technical inspections, many of which were block of the continuous improvement that unannounced, and we are pleased to report underpins our robust technical performance.
Maintaining the highest ethical standards During the year, our Hull and Norfolk primary that over 95 per cent of those audits were We monitor ethical standards with our sites processing sites collectively processed an completed to the full satisfaction of our Our long-term commitment to quality and undergoing unannounced SEDEX Members average of 48,500 pigs per week up 4.7 per customers and other business stakeholders.
compliance has resulted in the level of Ethical Trade Audits SMETA every other year cent on the previous year.
In addition, our customer complaints falling during the year, supported by our own ethical verification Ballymena site has processed 8,000 pigs per and this continues to be closely monitored.
We are AB buyer supplier members week since acquisition.
These facilities are key of SEDEX Supplier Ethical Data Exchange suppliers of pork to a number of our further and are currently working with our suppliers processing businesses as well as third party to register them with SEDEX so their ethical food manufacturers.
data is visible to us enabling us to drive ethical standards within our supply chain.
26 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 27 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED We are dedicated to delivering the benefits stability for all of our employees regardless Annual internal Health & Safety audits are OPERATING EXCELLENCE of the Apprenticeship Levy back in to the of nationality.
We currently employ more carried out to measure the Health & Safety employee base of the group.
Each site has than 9,000 staff of whom more than 6,000 standards at each of our sites to confirm carried out a skills gap analysis to understand are permanent workers, encompassing over they achieve the required standard and where the training requirements are and will 50 nationalities.
provide an action plan for the following OUR COMMITMENT TO OPERATING EXCELLENCE IS then match apprenticeships to these areas.
In 2016 17 we continued In 2016, we were among the first businesses to improve Health & Safety standards and UNDERPINNED BY OUR CONTINUED LONG-TERM INVESTMENT Learning and development to issue a statement on the Modern Slavery reduce accident frequency.
The behavioural IN OUR INFRASTRUCTURE, OUR PRODUCTION PROCESSES AND The training and development of our teams Act and our commitment to the protection safety of employees is key to this and we have is a vital contributing factor to the continued of vulnerable workers continues throughout developed a behavioural safety system which OUR PEOPLE.
progression of the business and plays a critical our supply chain.
All members of our HR highlights our workers attitude to risk and part in succession planning ensuring we have teams have attended a workshop on Modern hazard.
Behaviour modification is crucial to the necessary skills set in place for the future.
Slavery and Human Trafficking within the reducing unsafe acts and with encouraging This is measured and regulated via an Supply Chain led by the Association of positive reinforcement to staff we have seen INVESTING IN OUR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE Attracting and developing talent alignment to our appraisal system which feeds Labour Providers.
accident rates decrease during the year and During the year, the Group has invested Our Human Resources HR strategy is Graduate development in to the development dashboards created expect this trend to continue.
This led to a 47 million in state-of-the-art equipment to incorporated into our Sustainability policy Our graduate recruitment scheme remains a across the business to identify where there We recognise the benefits of diversity and 37 per cent reduction in claims.
support long-term future growth, introduce and overall strategic plan to underpin our key focus for us and in 2016 this was broadened are learning and succession gaps and how our diversity policy provides equality and new capabilities and drive further operating vision and purpose.
We aspire for our people to allow current employees to join the scheme these will be filled over the designated fairness.
There are no differences in the pay The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and efficiency gains.
This commitment to ongoing to be the best and we are committed to to develop our existing talent pool at this level.
structure for males and females performing Dangerous Occurrences Regulations investment over many years is reflected in the inspiring and developing a multi-skilled The number of applications for the scheme the same or similar roles.
RIDDORS was lower than the previous year.
quality of our production facilities which are and motivated workforce.
The HR strategy has doubled as we attended 16 University In 2016 we trained 240 middle and senior level The RIDDORS incident ratio accident against some of the most efficient and well invested includes sustainability initiatives for attracting Recruitment Fairs across the UK.
Further managers on bespoke management courses Further details of our diversity policy are number of employees reduced by 21 per in the sectors in which we operate.
It ensures and retaining talented individuals who have details can be found on page 14. which enabled them to understand their shown in the Nomination Committee report cent compared to 2016.
The total number that we have sufficient capacity headroom to key skills which are vital to the delivery of our own management style, how this impacted on pages 60 and 61. of recorded accidents per 100 employees meet our growth aspirations and that we long-term business goals.
We encourage our Apprentices on others and the skills set they needed to in 2017 was 16 per cent lower than in 2016. provide a safe and secure working employees to express their views via Works We now have over 40 apprentices within the implement in order to make them managers Keeping our people healthy and safe environment for our workforce.
Employees business ranging from butchery, engineering of the future.
In 2017 we will introduce a We comply with all relevant Health & Safety Accidents per 100 Employees have a worker representative, who may be and planning to finance, technical and similarly created talent programme for our standards and regulations, and adopt The expenditure in the year was spread a union representative, to air their views on administration.
These programmes will directors in waiting and all current Board industry best practice across all our sites.
across our asset base as we continue to internal committees.
We want our employees enable apprentices to gain cross-functional Directors have the benefit of using a personal Our Group Health & Safety team implements 6.9 6.7 successfully grow and develop all of our to feel valued and we view them as critical skills that will be positively recognised coach to develop their existing skills.
and monitors new initiatives to maintain businesses and we have now invested in stakeholders in our business.
We have a across the industry.
One of our engineering excellent standards.
The Board reviews 5.6 excess of 230 million in our infrastructure training and development strategy delivering apprentices won the Humberside Engineering Providing appropriate training to all quarterly accident and claims statistics.
over the last eight years.
For further workforce capabilities, skills and competencies Training Association HETA Apprentice employees is key to the success of our We review monthly accident statistics using information about capital projects delivered through its apprenticeship scheme, graduate of the Year Award and we are running a Group Health & Safety standards.
All new an industry leading web-based recording during the year see the Operating and development programme and management partnership with Thomas Danby College employees undertake a Health & Safety system which allows analysis of each accident Financial Review on pages 36 to 38. training courses.
Succession planning is in Leeds to deliver a bespoke butchery induction course including fire safety, manual and monitors control measures introduced actively managed and employees are training apprenticeship for individuals over handling, task and machinery training in their to prevent recurrence.
The system includes 0.78 0.66 0.52 given career opportunities which support the next year.
We also provide a tracker to ensure all required actions are 2015 2016 2017 staff retention and a sustainable and ongoing Health & Safety training throughout completed in the required time period.
All of our employees and Total agency staff are task trained to safe systems Our Group Health & Safety team is led by RIDDORS of work for any equipment or task they the Group Health & Safety Manager with work on.
We have suitable systems for the assistance of two Group Health & Safety communicating Health & Safety and training Coordinators who work under the guidance for our non-English speaking workforce.
of our Group Compliance Manager.
All our sites have a dedicated Health & Safety A diverse and integrated workforce Manager to provide the highest standards Encouraging the principles of equality and of Health & Safety management.
All our diversity is key to the successful and inclusive Health & Safety employees hold the 47m culture that lies at the heart of our business.
appropriate National Examination Board All employment decisions, including in Occupational Safety and Health INVESTED ACROSS recruitment and internal promotions, NEBOSH qualification.
OUR ASSET BASE are based on merit, qualification and abilities and are not influenced or affected by an With the increasing complexity of equipment individuals race, colour, nationality, religion, and legislation surrounding its design and gender, marital status, family status, sexual use, our engineering teams have been orientation, disability or age.
We have trained in machinery safety and any new recruited over 2,000 individuals in to the machinery will not be used unless it complies business over the last year and will continue with the latest Certificate of Conformity to develop our business model to recruit CEE regulations and has undertaken an Cranswick Country Foods Norfolk.
more permanent members of the workforce assessment in line with the Provision & Use as part of our commitment to ensuring of Work Equipment Regulations PUWER.
28 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 29
