Chief Executives review Building the foundations for creating shareholder value strategic imperatives to achieve our objective of growing customer lifetime value by offering compelling propositions and delivering the basics brilliantly.
We are confident that delivering this agenda will create real shareholder value.
Put our Customers at the heart of the business At Mitie we have some great customers, but we have to give them more.
There are over 3,000 major customers and there is significant untapped potential in our core business to promote cross-selling and the bundling of our service lines.
To harness this we are investing in strategic account management, introducing a Net Promoter Score NPS programme and tailoring our customer propositions based on a deep understanding of customers needs and sector requirements.
We are increasing our commercial focus on our most valuable market segments and those accounts with the highest potential lifetime value.
And to defend our core business and deliver profitable growth we are expanding our proposition into real estate professional services.
We aim to lead the market in providing value-added consulting services through the use of technology and data, providing greater insights of the cost drivers in customer workspaces as we take them Beyond FM to the Connected Workspace.
Transform our Cost base and restore our I am delighted to be presenting my first annual review, balance sheet strength having been appointed Chief Executive last December.
My At Mitie our aim is to be the most efficient in our industry principal role as CEO is to lead and inspire our 53,000 Mitie and have the lowest cost base.
We have launched Project colleagues to deliver great service and great ideas to our Helix to change the DNA of Mitie.
At Mitie we are in the business of saving our our legal structures, standardising our processes and customers money and generating long-term shareholder rationalising our systems in short, materially reducing our value.
We do this by giving more: more to our clients and cost base.
This is the most significant driver to increase more to our people.
shareholder value in the medium term.
I have visited many of our operations and spoken to a huge We have moved to a structure with six business divisions.
I am full of admiration for the We are consolidating support and back office functions to service our colleagues, day in, day out, give to our reduce duplication, leverage best practice and increase customers.
They are full of ideas on how we can do things efficiency.
We have created single functional support even better.
I have also met a large number of our valued across Mitie in Finance, HR, IT and Legal.
We are introducing clients and gained an understanding of what we are doing the Mitie Way of doing things once and consistently across well and where we need to work harder.
In the main I am the Group, whether that is accounting, back office and encouraged by the quality of what we deliver every day, administration, people development, payroll, sales but it is clear that by joining up the best of Mitie, we can generation, incentivisation and reward, and in our legal do even more.
The Mitie Way will also ensure that workflow management for our engineers and Strategy technicians is as automated as possible.
Following a full strategic review of industry trends and our strengths and weaknesses, we have developed a strategy There are three waves to the cost transformation giving us a clear way forward to build the foundations for programme.
The first wave is completed and has eliminated creating shareholder value.
We have developed four duplication and excess capacity in our management 4 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 structure.
This has resulted in annualised savings of 10m.
completing the sale of our loss-making non-core Healthcare The second wave is addressing our short-term operational business in February 2017, we have had to take further efficiencies by removing activities that have no benefit write-offs.
As a consequence our profits are down year-onto customers, such as cross-charging between Mitie year and our reserves have fallen.
The structural levels of companies.
This will be completed in 2019 and will result in debt within the business need to be reduced despite a better than expected year-end net debt of 147.2m annualised savings of 15m starting in FY19.
The third wave is the enterprise-wide deployment of integrated systems 2016: 178.3m, after utilisation of 110.7m 2016: 82.2m of non-recourse, sale of receivables arrangements.
This is underway and will be rolling out in 2017 with run rate benefits of 20m expected to Revenues have stayed broadly flat.
Reported operating profit before other items reduced to a loss of 3.
Build a winning culture and develop and retain 6.3 m 2016: profit 113.9m, after writing off 88.3m our People as a result of the balance sheet review.
We aim to have the best trained and most motivated workforce in our industry.
Divisional performance has been mixed.
Cleaning has been hampered by high overheads and a lack of new business We are introducing a Mitie Way of talent management to but has been supported by the results of the Environmental develop and retain our people and create a winning culture Services businesses.
We have a new management team in that will make Mitie stand out from our peer group with a place and have started the deployment of Workplace, our focus on recruitment, induction, development, appraisal new scheduling system.
Security has performed well, and reward.
We will be increasing investment in our people achieving strong sales growth due to a change in mix to make sure that they are engaged and have the skills they between manned guarding and technology.
Its results for need to do their jobs with clear development opportunities the year have been depressed by the addition of the poor to enable them to give their best during their Mitie career.
performing front-of-house business to the division.
Catering has had a solid year, consolidating its position in We are redesigning incentives across the business, the market as an innovative, lifestyle offer based on healthy linking them to the overall success of Mitie.
Engineering Services has performed at the incentives will be aligned to reward cross-selling and level we would expect despite reduced project volumes at behaviours that demonstrate our one team ethos and the start of the year and reduced contract wins.
Professional Services & Connected Workspace is a new business, bringing together our property consultancy, We will also be making clear to all our colleagues the behaviours we expect from them.
Our customers have project management, energy management and waste consultancy.
In Public Services, Care and Custody has entrusted us with a duty of care to them and we must not let them down.
As we reduce management layers and achieved its targets and has won a number of custodial health contracts starting in FY18.
Property Management increase accountability we will be empowering our people to make the decisions that improve our customer service was below target as a result of the slow rate of contract wins and project work flow in the first nine months of the on a daily basis.
However the business has had a successful start to 4.
Uplift our investments in Technology to provide 2017 in terms of contract wins and the confirmation of start dates for projects that had been deferred.
insights and make Mitie the easiest company to do business with Leadership team We are increasing our investment in technology to be at Mitie has many excellent people in the business but we the forefront of the industry.
To develop a market-leading are building a new Executive Leadership Team.
We have proposition in the Connected Workspace we are creating a appointed a new CFO, a new Group HR Director, a new distinctive offer for our customers and automating our own General Counsel & Company Secretary and a new Head internal processes.
We have also appointed new Managing Directors in our Cleaning, Security, Engineering Services In our clients premises, we are investing in sensors and and Professional Services divisions.
the latest mobile technology to understand what goes on inside a building.
And we are building new analytical tools Looking ahead to process these vast amounts of data and to translate it into insights on how to save money.
With our new investment-led strategy we believe that there is a significant opportunity to transform Mitie into a more Business performance focused, higher growth, higher margin business which in time will result in materially increased shareholder value.
Since I took over at Mitie, it is clear that we have had a We are grateful for your support.
Our revenues have been flat, whilst our costs have been increasing.
I am determined to reverse those trends and expect to see margins improve to between Phil Bentley 4.5% and 5.5% in the medium term.
Chief Executive We have completed a review of our balance sheet which has led to a number of one-off accounting charges, and in 1.
See pages 26 and 27 and the Appendix on page 174. www.
