Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 25 Statement from the Chief Executive We have continued to recycle capital profitably, selling properties where we have created significant value, and maintained our strong leasing momentum, despite the less buoyant market environment.
With our first-class team, unprecedented financial strength and portfolio rich with opportunities, we are wellpositioned to capitalise on any market uncertainty.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive We are pleased to report resilient financial results Continued successful leasing activity ahead for the year driven by our strong operational ofERV and capturing reversion performance, with multiple leasing successes We have maintained our strong leasing momentum with and record levels of capital recycling, we have 20.5 million of annual rent secured this year, on average taken advantage of elevated prices to crystallise 0.6% above our valuers ERV, in a market where supply of development surpluses.
new high quality ofce space remains tight.
Our 52 new lettings included nine development lettings, which secured EPRA NAV per share fell by 5.7% in the year following seven 8.3 million of rent from a diverse range of occupiers and all consecutive years of growth delivering a cumulative uplift of on leases with a term certain of at least ten years.
Our team 142%, whilst EPRA EPS grew strongly by 28.1% and ordinary was also successful in capturing rental reversion across the dividends per share increased 9.8% to10.1 pence.
Returns to investment portfolio, with 32 rent reviews settled securing shareholders were further enhanced by a special dividend of 12.9 million at an average increase of 45.3% above the 32.15 pence per share declared last month.
previous rent and beating ERV by 2.6%.
Taken together, our annual rent roll increased by 13.2% over the year to Less buoyant market conditions given more 109.6 million and we can look forward to further growth uncertain economic environment given our significant reversionary potential of 21.2%, off low Central Londons property markets remain open for business average ofce rents of 50.10 per sq ft. Today, we have a with the weight of international capital and healthy tenant further 6.9 million of lettings under offer at a premium to demand supporting the prime investment and occupational March 2017 ERVs of 2.4%.
markets, despite the slowdown in activity levels over the last See asset management on pages 40 and 41 12 months.
Whilst the market was already slowing ahead of the EU referendum after seven years of consecutive capital value growth, with both rents and yields at record levels, the fide-risked and reduced committed increased uncertainty following the result triggered a small development programme, with our increase in yields and rental falls.
Across our portfolio, yield exceptional pipeline of opportunity expansion of 15 basis points and rental falls of 1.3% resulted in Our committed development exposure has signicantly a 4.9% like-for-like property valuation decline.
reduced following the successful completion of four In the near term, we expect Londons commercial markets schemes this year combined with the two profitable forward to weaken further with the benets of lower bond yields, sales.
Having now delivered 17 schemes since 2009, creating weaker sterling and Londons continued safe-haven status to 1.5 million sq ft of high quality space with an average profit be offset by potential further rental falls particularly for more on cost of 38%, our immediate focus is on completing our secondary properties.
However, we remain positive on the three on-site schemes 350,000 sq ft over the next nine long-term prospects for London as a truly global city with months.
These include the 142 residential apartments with 140 already pre-sold at Rathbone Square, W1 151,700 sq enduring appeal for businesses and investors alike.
ft, which are due to practically complete in September, and See our market on pages 27 to 31 our 161,000sq ft ofce redevelopment at 160Old Street, EC1, where early leasing interest is encouraging ahead of Record year of capital recycling crystallising expected completion inearly 2018. development profit Looking further ahead, excellent progress has been made For the fourth consecutive year, we were a net seller with sales in preparing our substantial pipeline of future development of 727.0 million, including the forward sale of two prime, opportunities, which extends to 1.6 million sqft across long-let commercial development schemes at 73 89 Oxford 14schemes, including two West End projects with potential Street, W1 and Rathbone Square, W1 which crystallised starts in the next 12 months at Hanover Square and Oxford whole life capital returns of 74% and 20% respectively a House on Oxford Street, both adjacent to Crossrail stations.
combined profit in excess of 227.0 million.
Our 71.0 million of off-market acquisitions secured two West End properties, See development management on pages 36 to 39 both enhancing existing Group interests.
Looking ahead, we expect our investment market activity to be more balanced as prices correct, particularly for riskier assets.
See investment management on pages 34 and 35 Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 26 Great Portland Estates Statement from the Chief Executive Unprecedented financial strength Outlook anddiscipline GPE is exceptionally well positioned: Four years of net property sales combined with our recent renancing Our net sales activity and successful renancing activities, successes gives us unprecedented financial capacity to including the recent issue of 175 million US private exploit any market weakness with accretive acquisitions: placement notes with a coupon of only 2.15%, means our our investment portfolio is well let, off low average rents financial position has never been stronger.
Our pro forma and with significant reversionary potential: our remaining loan to value ratio is low at 12.2%, even after the disciplined committed development projects are already 65% pre-sold capital return of the Rathbone development profit of with strong interest in much of the balance: our exceptional, approximately 110 million to shareholders by special income-producing, development pipeline is rich with dividend.
Our weighted average interest rate of 2.7% is at opportunity, offering more than 1.6 million sqft ofexible record low levels, with 618million of cash and committed future growth potential, covering 40% ofour existing undrawn liquidity giving us plentiful financial repower.
portfolio: and, our first-class, refreshed team is ready to See our capital discipline on pages 45 and 46 capitalise on this period of uncertainty.
Experienced and talented team Selected awards during the year Our expanded Executive Committee, including our two newappointments, is operating well and our Board welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors during the year.
We were delighted that the effort of the whole team was recognised with GPE ranked first in the property sector in Management Todays Britains Most Admired Companies.
Pleasingly, in our inaugural engagement survey, 96% of our employees stated they would recommend GPE as a great place to work and I would like to thank them all for making it so and for their dedication throughout the year.
See our culture and people on pages 50 to 57 The GPE opportunity our portfolio Long-dated Our 100% central London 583m portfolio is rich with Committed developments 3.6% net initial yield opportunity to deliver both Crystallise near-term surpluses and 393m surpluses long-term value creation.
65.2% pre-sold Near-term Our committed developments value upside now represent 12% of the portfolio 19% down from 26% a year ago and 12% have been signicantly fide-risked Active asset through pre-sales with more management profits to come.
The investment portfolio comprises: 904m 73% long-dated investment properties West End 19% reversionary which we developed with average Repositioning lease lengths of 11.4 years where 85% upside 800m to we expect to crystallise surpluses 29% Crossrail station over time through recycling: classic active asset management investments on shorter leases with significant repositioning upside and reversionary potential to 40% Development capture: and pipeline our future development pipeline 1,266m where the reversionary potential is already significant even before 27% reversionary Total: redevelopment, giving us real Long-term long-term value potential.
