Strategic Report 08 A year of CEOs strong progress BTG has executed its strategy effectively Strategic this year, achieved significant milestones and delivered another strong financial report performance.
The healthcare environment continues to evolve, as society seeks to balance demands for access to medical innovation against the increasing costs of delivering better care.
BTG is well placed to respond to this challenge.
Over the past six years we have built a portfolio of image-guided minimally invasive therapies that have the potential to improve patient outcomes and experiences while reducing overall healthcare expenditure.
How this links to our strategy There are few companies operating in the world of interventional medicine like BTG.
We focus on providing novel technologies that can transform the way certain diseases are treated.
Since entering this space in 2011, we have built the capabilities and the entrepreneurial culture that we believe will enable us to succeed in the innovation-led markets where we operate.
Our products are often administered in a dedicated procedure by specialist physician customers who we serve through small, highly skilled sales and medical teams.
With the cash we generate, we invest in product innovation and clinical trials, enabling us to maintain technology leadership and to demonstrate patient benefits and cost effectiveness.
This ensures we can achieve regulatory approvals, market adoption, payer coverage and the appropriate value for our products.
We are also expanding our geographic reach and optimising our commercial activities in all territories.
These investments are designed to deliver sustainable double-digit product sales growth and increasing operating margins over time.
We also have the financial flexibility to accelerate and fide-risk our growth strategy by continuing to explore opportunities to expand our portfolio and pipeline through acquisition and inlicensing activities.
Dame Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 09 By focusing on the needs of our customers and their patients, and delivering innovative solutions to their complex medical problems, we will achieve our vision and become a global leader in the field of interventional medicine therapies.
Building positive momentum We have made strong progress during the year in implementing our growth strategy, achieving key objectives in geographic expansion, product innovation, clinical studies and portfolio growth.
We continued to enhance our presence in selected markets in Asia, where we see significant long-term growth opportunities, with the launch of TheraSphere in South Korea and Malaysia.
We gained EU and Canadian approval for the first visible chemoembolising bead for liver cancer.
In the US and EU our new EKOS control unit received regulatory clearance.
Our Interventional Oncology portfolio expanded through the acquisition of Galil Medical, a leader in By focusing on the cryoablation technology.
This deal was completed in June 2016 and growth through acquisition remains a needs of our customers key part of our strategy, as we continue to monitor and their patients and opportunities of potential interest.
delivering innovative The earlier stage Interventional Medicine businesses solutions to their complex achieved important milestones.
A Premarket Approval application was submitted in the US for our PneumRx medical problems, we will Coils, which are for treating severe emphysema.
In the become a global leader in EU, positive assessments in Germany and France are expected to support national coverage in both countries.
the field of Interventional Medicine therapies Varithena, the treatment for varicose veins, made progress towards receiving dedicated reimbursement codes in the US, which we anticipate will be implemented in January 2018.
The cash we generate in our Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Licensing businesses enables us to make investments and build leadership positions in Interventional Medicine.
Licensing is no longer an active part of our strategy, whereas Specialty Pharmaceuticals, through which we provide potentially life-saving antidote treatments, remains a core part of BTGs business.
We remain open to expanding this portfolio through acquisition or in-licensing.
Dame Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
