CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW DURING A CHALLENGING YEAR, WHAT HAVE BEEN THE KEY HIGHLIGHTS FOR YOU?
Having been with the Group for some 30 years, it is fair to say that this past year was one of the most challenging.
Despite the diffi cult trading environment, a key highlight was the Swiss, Southern African and Dubai businesses all performing relatively well.
We continue to see growing demand for quality healthcare services, which is why we place such an emphasis on our Patients First strategy and continue to invest in our facilities and people.
This will assist us to maintain our leading position in all our international markets.
The key challenge globally is to keep healthcare aff ordable and to demonstrate cost-effi cient service delivery.
Whilst the Middle East platform performed below expectations during the year, largely resulting from issues with the Al Noor business in Abu Dhabi, there were several highlights in the region.
In September 2016, we opened the new comprehensive cancer unit, based in the North Wing of the Mediclinic City Hospital, which has performed very well.
When I look at the new services not previously off ered by Mediclinic Middle East, the number of lives we are changing through our new radiotherapy and PET scan services each month is encouraging.
In April 2017, the unit treated the fi first cancer patient with a revolutionary form of radiotherapy called stereotactic body radiotherapy.
This was delivered using Mediclinics True Beam Varian linear accelerator, the only one of its kind in the UAE.
In Al Ain, the Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital had its fi first full month of trading in January 2017 and is ramping up.
It is well positioned to serve the higher end of the market in the region.
I believe the rebranding of the Al Noor business to Mediclinic is an important milestone and underlines our commitment to deliver exceptional levels of private healthcare service in the region.
Rebranding and marketing work commenced and will continue through the year ahead.
I am pleased that the co-payment that was introduced in Abu Dhabi Danie Meintjes in July 2016 was waived with immediate eff ect on 26 April 2017 following our ongoing dialogue with the Chief Executive O cer relevant stakeholders in the region.
12 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW We are determined to meet and exceed the expectations of our patients in every market we operate.
In South Africa, the cost of private healthcare is being WHY DO YOU BELIEVE examined by the Competition Commission through the REGULATORY MATTERS Health Market Inquiry HMI.
Towards the end of 2016, the HMI published a timetable reflecting the proposed PLAYED SUCH A PROMINENT events for 2017.
We will continue to engage with the ROLE THIS YEAR?
HMI as we progress towards the publication of the final reports which they have indicated will be by the end Access to healthcare is a basic human right.
It is therefore understandable that governments As I mentioned previously, from 1 July 2016, the Abu will have an interest in their particular healthcare Dhabi authorities introduced a 20% co-payment for system to ensure that it is efficient, accessible and Emiratis who are members of the Thiqa insurance fair to its citizens.
Healthcare delivery models vary option, when they make use of private healthcare widely between countries with different degrees providers.
This had a material impact on our Abu Dhabi of participation by the private healthcare sector.
business, affecting the volume of Thiqa patients visiting However, the cost of delivering healthcare around the our facilities.
We are focused on growing our patient world is increasing.
The reality is that this is largely numbers from the Thiqa and enhanced insurance driven by increased consumption from an ageing market.
This strategy is supported by the new business and growing disease-burdened population, and and operational practices, the ongoing upgrade and new technology.
investment programmes across our facilities, and the We have a joint responsibility, working with rebranding of the business to Mediclinic.
The waiving of governments, funders and patients, to offer affordable the co-payment in Abu Dhabi from late April 2017 will and cost-efficient services to ensure the long-term help to support our anticipated gradual improvement sustainability of healthcare provision in the countries in Middle East performance as we move through the in which we operate.
The private sector can make coming financial year.
a meaningful, cost-efficient contribution towards healthcare delivery.
We believe that governments and the private healthcare sector should constructively coWHAT ARE THE BENEFITS OF operate to find a dual system of care delivery which is MEDICLINIC BEING A GLOBAL in the best interest of the broader community.
In Switzerland, as the Federal Government and cantons reviewed their budgets and expenditure on We have built a diversified portfolio of operating healthcare, we saw several regulatory announcements platforms in Switzerland, Southern Africa, and the during the year.
Firstly, the Canton of Zurich in midMiddle East and in the UK we have our 29.9% investment 2016 proposed a levy based on the proportion of in Spire Healthcare.
Combined with our strong privately insured patients treated in listed hospitals.
market position in our operating regions, Mediclinic The Hirslanden management team committed benefits from a pool of skilled, knowledgeable and significant time and resources to engaging with the experienced employees.
relevant public authorities to raise concerns regarding the process, fairness and the impact of the proposed Group initiatives to simplify, standardise and centralise levy specifically on Klinik Hirslanden.
I am pleased to key business support processes are ongoing.
Using report that in March 2017 the Cantonal Parliament our international scale, we are beginning to deliver voted not to approve the proposed levy.
Secondly, meaningful synergies and cost savings.
During the year, there have been ongoing national outpatient tariff our central procurement function and ICT department TARMED negotiations between healthcare providers made excellent progress in some key contract and funders.
The Swiss Federal Government released negotiations that will benefit the future profitability of proposed adjustments to TARMED, as a transitional the Group.
solution while negotiations continue to find agreement Although clinical models differ from country to on a revised tariff structure.
And finally, the Zurich country, the basic principles are similar, and it is Cantonal Parliament approved an amendment to the useful to compare and share clinical experience cantonal hospital law, providing a legal basis to create and learnings among our operating platforms.
The a list of interventions that in future should generally breadth of intellectual property across the Group is be treated as outpatient rather than inpatient services.
We strive to nurture the combined knowledge, Continued dialogue and engagement with the relevant skills and experience from our diverse group of public authorities remains key to ensuring that private people to improve the Groups clinical performance healthcare plays a meaningful role in the broader and growth opportunities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 It is vital that we share best practice at an international to improve gradually as we progress through the year level, as this will ensure we continue to deliver ahead.
A key focus is to establish the Mediclinic brand high-quality, cost-efficient services to our patients.
The as a trusted and preferred provider of clinical services comprehensive cancer centre in Dubai is an example to the Abu Dhabi community.
of how we tapped into the clinical experience and Another priority is the continued improvement knowledge of the Hirslanden team in Switzerland to in operational efficiencies, using our combined assist with the design, building and opening of our international intellectual property.
We will continue first comprehensive cancer centre in the Middle East.
to focus on finding ways to simplify our business and Having access to such valuable sources of knowledge to standardise processes and structures.
This will and skills lowers the risk of venturing into new complex allow us to use our scale to unlock further synergies clinical service lines.
in areas such as procurement, information and communications technology, clinical services, human resources and marketing.
WHAT ARE YOUR PRIORITIES Finally, we will look to grow the Group at existing AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE platform levels by attracting more patients, adding YEAR AHEAD AND BEYOND?
further capacity to existing facilities, adding new service lines, and identifying bolt-on acquisition Our Group focus on Patients First will continue to opportunities.
In addition, we will evaluate potential be our top priority.
We are determined to meet new opportunities for further valued added growth.
and exceed the expectations of our patients in In the Middle East, the building of the Mediclinic every market in which we operate.
To assist us Parkview Hospital in Dubai with some 170 beds has in identifying areas for improvement, we implemented commenced.
We approved the development of a a standardised international Patient Experience Index comprehensive cancer unit at the Mediclinic Airport PEI measurement system, provided by Press Ganey.
Road Hospital in Abu Dhabi, where work is expected The PEI system is well embedded in our Southern to start soon.
Africa and Dubai businesses, and is being rolled out I would like to thank all the doctors, nurses, support in the Hirslanden and Abu Dhabi businesses, the staff and management for their dedication and results of which are referenced to in the Sustainable commitment to the Group and what we stand for.
AR Development Highlights on page 57.
We continue I am confident that the year ahead will be successful.
to focus on providing superior clinical performance in a safe clinical environment while moving towards a better integrated healthcare delivery model.
As I have mentioned, the acquisition of the Al Noor business in Abu Dhabi has proved to be challenging.
While significant progress has been made, we continue to focus on resolving these matters and stabilising Danie Meintjes performance: this will remain a priority.
Our confidence Chief Executive Officer in the long-term growth opportunities of the Middle East region remains strong, and we expect performance
