Chief Executives statement We continue to operate successfully in a growing market, taking share, and are the only UK pet business able to deliver an integrated merchandise, services and omnichannel offer.
1 Our Vet Group transacted more than Market review continuing proof that our range innovation The UK pet market has increased its rate drives a positive customer response.
ofgrowth over the past two years to a CAGR Andto improve further on our service to 260m of 4.5% and was worth 6.8bn in calendar customers, we are refocusing our Steps in total customer revenues during the year year 2016.
This step forward has been training programme to ensure more driven by faster growth in the veterinary, colleagues can develop their expertise insurance and accessories segments.
ata faster rate in more specialist areas.
We will roll out The veterinary market grew at a CAGR of We also understand there is a need to 5.6% over this same period, which is being provide better pricing to customers.
This 4050 driven by the widening availability of more will involve a move away from promotional vet practices in the coming year complex procedures and diagnostics, offers and vouchers, and towards a supported by increasing numbers of pet simpler, more competitive approach.
In food, strong We therefore initiated pricing changes in growth in Advanced Nutrition continued the fourth quarter with the Switch & Save ata CAGR of 8.9%, balanced with a flat campaign, which highlights the value in grocery food market where volumes our private label foods, Wainwrights and arefalling and pricing remains highly AVA.
The prices on our large bag private competitive.
With the accessories market label dog foods are now 15-25% lower.
CAGR at 1.9%, this led to an overall pet Initial results from the campaign have products market CAGR of 2.1%.
been encouraging and since its launch The transition of the market to online has inJanuary 2017 we have seen an average been consistent with our expectations, 50% uplift in the volume of products that accelerating slightly compared with have seen a price change.
We have also historical rates, reaching 11% of the seen an increase in new shoppers, petmarket in 2016. alongside the switching of existing customers from branded foods into our Over the two year period from 2014 to own labels.
In the current financial year 2016 we have taken share across the wehave launched price reductions across petmarket both online and offline.
Overall a number of everyday pet essentials and we have grown our share of the important are also starting to reposition prices in strategic categories including Advanced branded foods.
From 2014-2016, our total share of the Whilst it is early days, we are encouraged pet products market increased from by the improvement in the run rate of 2 19%to 20% and in the primary opinion Merchandise LFL to 1.0% in the 16 veterinary market from 9% to 12%.
weeks from the start of our price repositioning actions.
Expanding like-for-like growth 1 Market data sourced from OC&C Strategy Consultants.
Better value for customers Fast growth and embedded upside 2 Refers to the 16 week period from 26 Jan 18 May 2017.
In the Merchandise business our focus inourveterinary business ison delivering even better value for our Our Vet Group continues to go from F Y16 comparative information presented on a 52 week basis.
For reconciliation to a 53week statutory basis see customers.
Value includes price, but also strength to strength: transacting more page 179. innovation, service and advice.
The strong than 260m in total customer revenues A lternative Performance Measures APMs are defined and reconciled to IFRS information, where possible, on page 179. sales of dog accessories this year are during the financial year.
In the first Pets at Home Group Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategy opinion business, mature practices grew A more personalised approach through VIP their customer revenues at 8%, ahead We have seen more successes in the VIP ofthe market rate of around 5%.
We now club this year, having launched the VIP App, have over 100 mature practices that are which removes the need for customers to on average delivering income to the physically carry the VIP card to swipe and Groupof more than 160,000 per year.
build points for their nominated charity.
Combined with our maturing practices, Wehave increased the overall VIP swipe this translated into strong total JV practice rate of the VIP card at tills to 68% of store income of 47.1m, up 24.6%.
revenues prior year 64%, and expect the Introducing our new GroupChief rate to be stable going forward.
Financial Officer: Mike Iddon The average age of a practice in our Group is Mike joined Pets at Home in October less than five years, when maturity is typically We are successfully encouraging our 2016 as Group Chief Financial Officer.
reached at eight years post opening: and VIPsto spend more, the longer they are having already invested the majority of cost members of the VIP club.
And we are Mike was the Chief Financial Officer of required to support their future growth, there encouraging our VIPs to shop multiple NewLook from 2014 until 2016.
Prior to this, Mike held a number of finance roles at is an inherent embedded profit upside in the brands, with nearly 500,000 members Tesco plc over a period of 13 years, with his current portfolio.
purchasing both products and a service, final position as Group Planning, Treasury anumber which has grown by 14% Our newer specialist referral centres also and Tax Director.
Before this he held finance compared with the prior year.
The benefits performed well and their integration is roles with Kingfisher plc and Whitbread plc.
of multibrand shoppers are very clear: delivering group benefits through the sharing He qualified as a Chartered Accountant acustomer who purchases online or in with Arthur Andersen.
of best practice and leveraging scale.
our stores, but does not use any services In the year ahead, to accelerate growth in spends around 140 a year.
Whilst a Board of Directors page 70 the existing practices, we will increase the customer who also uses either of our vet number of practices with extended opening and grooming services will spend over hours, invest further in marketing to 180 on products, plus an additional In order to mitigate some of these increase brand awareness and customer 200 per year on services.
This reflects pressures, we have already begun to care plan participation.
And we continue the increased loyalty and shopping implement a comprehensive simplification toexplore opportunities in the market that frequency of services customers.
programme, which will deliver operational will deliver growth to our first opinion and cost savings over the coming year.
These Space rollout and footprint development referral businesses, whilst retaining a will be achieved through efficiencies in We delivered our rollout targets for the disciplined approach to capital allocation.
store, a simplification of processes in our year, having opened 15 new superstores distribution centre, a reduction in the Omnichannel capabilities growing total 434, 50 vet practices total 438 number of products we stock: and energy Our online business performed very well and 50 grooming salons total 290. savings from the installation of LED lights during the year, growing revenues at 53%.
Paybacks and returns on our new and and energy management systems across The convenience of our UK wide store maturing units remain in line with our the store estate.
This will mitigate some footprint remains, with almost half the expectations.
ofthe overall cost challenges, alongside the revenue of online orders delivered for In the year ahead, our vet practice and profit and margin support provided by our customer pickup in-store.
Alongside our grooming salon rollout will continue at a growing Services business and private label ongoing improvements in website customer similar pace, with openings of 40-50 vet products, but overall, we expect to see a experience, there were a number of major practices and 40-50 grooming salons.
We decline in Group gross margin.
This reflects initiatives launched this year: expect to open around ten superstores, the coming year as one of repositioning the Order in-store: our colleagues can now lower than in the previous year, as we business, which we are confident is the right place an order for all the products in our come closer to our UK rollout target of path for the future success of the Group.
extended online range from their PetPads.
500 stores and maintain a disciplined Outlook This gives store customers easy access approach to approving suitable new sites.
We operate in a resilient market, which is to even more of our range and has already 1 Supporting margins forecast to grow at c4.5% over the next delivered over 2m in revenue since its As planned, Group gross margin declined five years.
Whilst in the near term we are launch at the end of the financial year, by 35 bps to 54.2%: driven by the repositioning the Merchandise business which we believe is driving incremental dilutive mix impact of newly acquired and investing in the customer, we are sales.
specialist referral centres and increase in seeing results from our actions and believe Our first subscription service: Subscribe overall Services participation, which has a this will deliver profitable growth benefits in & Save flea treatment exclusively for VIP lower gross margin than the Merchandise future years.
We will also continue the fast members, allows customers to receive business.
In operating costs, the first year pace of top line and profit growth in our asingle flea treatment through the post of the National Living Wage, our slower veterinary business.
We remain a cash each month, which acts as a convenient top line growth and gross margin dilution generative business, with a priority to reminder to treat their dog or cat.
The contributed to pre-exceptional EBITDA invest in our core capabilities.
convenience of this plan has proved very margin declining by 38 bps to 15.6%.
popular with customers, with subscription In the coming year, we will invest in sales now representing 16% of our total product pricing, and widen our marketing licensed medicine revenues.
We plan to campaigns, to drive sales.
We will also extend subscription with another licensed see an increase in cost pressures that medicine launch in the coming months.
impact both gross and operating margins, Having seen such a positive customer including Sterling depreciation, another Ian Kellett response to these developments, we step up in the National Living Wage, and Group Chief Executive Officer willcontinue to invest and improve our the Apprenticeship Levy.
25 May 2017 omnichannel offer and develop our subscription platform in the coming year.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
