Landsec is in a great position.
We have a Robert Noel reports on portfolio of first-class assets combined with Chief historically low levels of operational and our performance during financial gearing at a time of geopolitical Executives the year and shares his and economic uncertainty.
Weve largely completed and let our outlook for the next speculative development programme.
being net sellers in the previous year, revenue profit is up 5.5% to 382m and adjusted diluted earnings per share are up 5.7% to 48.3p.
Our adjusted diluted net asset value per share is down marginally to 1,417p.
Our Combined Portfolio is valued at 14.4bn and, with adjusted net debt broadly unchanged over the year at 3.3bn, our loan-to-value is 22.2%.
Weve reduced our cost of debt and have access to the funds needed to buy when opportunities appear.
Despite uncertainty in the outside world, we remain confident of our core strengths inside the Company and were recommending a final dividend of 11.7p raising the dividend for the year by 10.1%.
Market environment Put simply, our markets remain in good health but theyve paused for breath.
In the London office market, we expected the occupational balance to shift from demand to supply during the course of 2017.
The Brexit vote brought that inflexion point forward.
In last years report, I said a vote to leave the EU would create business uncertainty, leading to lower occupational demand, falling rental values and a reduction in construction commitments.
This is happening, though less than we expected.
Overall, the UK economy continued to perform well during the year.
In the retail market, the effect of the referendum was less clear-cut although, faced with pressure on disposable income, shoppers have started to show more caution.
Retailers were a little slower to take up new space during the year but we continued to see opportunities to meet the ever-evolving needs of the most successful brands.
We wont be sure of the long-term effectof Brexit on our markets for some time.
Negotiations with the EU can only begin in earnest after the general election.
Although the business community remains in uncharted territory, that doesnt mean we should wait forchange to happen to us.
Were taking this time to prepare the business for the opportunities and challenges we see ahead.
We hope the new government can give businesses as much certainty as possible on areasincluding tax, regulation, access to skilled labour and public spending such as investment in infrastructure including desperately needed homes.
A clear and ambitious strategy for improving digital connectivity would have aparticularly powerful impact.
16 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Robert Noel Chief Executive Strategic Report First class portfolio Evolving market conditions require role changes Our results The foundations of the business are rock solid, in our teams as our emphasis shifts from selling underpinned by our resilient portfolio and low and development to management andbuying.
Our people relish these challenges.
Weare In London, our modern, well-located assets alsoenriching our culture, recruiting more are well let, with a weighted average unexpired fromoutside our industry so we gain fresh 3.7% lease term on offices of 10.3 years.
Having perspectives and new capabilities.
During the Ungeared total property return already scaled back speculative development year, we introduced stretching targets on gender activity before the year started, the last and ethnic diversity and fairness.
12months saw us put the finishing touches Outlook on over 1 million sq ft of space, including highWeve achieved our plan to have minimal profile developments at 1 New Street Square, 1.2% development exposure and longer lease terms EC4: 20 Eastbourne Terrace, W2: and Nova, Decrease in adjusted diluted in London offices, a transformed Retail Portfolio Victoria, SW1, which completed shortly after net assets per share and low gearing at this point.
Over the next theyear end.
Of the 3.1 million sq ft programme 12 months, were unlikely to see rental values we started in 2010, we have let or sold all but grow in London unless we have more certainty 283,000 sq ft. on movement of people and the UKs terms Our Retail Portfolio is a collection of vibrant 1.4% of trade with the EU and the rest of the world.
destinations that attract dynamic brands and In the retail sector, the extent to which higher Total business return are well-matched to consumer trends.
During supply chain costs are passed on to customers the year, we built and let a leisure extension remains to be seen.
Whatever the outcome, at White Rose, Leeds.
Our newest destination, higher costs tend to reduce take up of space.
Westgate Oxford, is on schedule to open in Our activity In the short term, with significantly reduced October and is 80% spoken for.
Since the year risk and a portfolio of first-class assets, we end, weve acquired a portfolio of three outlet go forward in excellent shape, ready to make 28m centres, establishing our position as the leading acquisitions when the time is right.
Longerof investment lettings owner-manager of outlets in the UK.
term, we remain confident in our market and Strong relationships our ability to deliver sustainable growth.
Well 13m Throughout the year, we pursued our vision of continue to address the trends that shape of development lettings being the best property company in the UK our business in coming years.
For example, in the eyes of our customers, communities, the combination of an ageing population and 15m partners and employees.
Ultimately, their technological progress will have a huge effect of acquisitions experience drives our performance.
Were on the way we live, work, shop, play, travel and responsible for ensuring that Landsec can are cared for.
In turn, this will affect the way we 286m thrive for many years to come.
Thats why we design, construct and manage buildings, and of development and set ourselves even higher expectations this year how we attract the best talent.
refurbishment expenditure on issues we share with our customers and The importance of thinking ahead and communities, such as local employment and acting early was brought home to me by our 413m place-making.
Weve also improved the way completion of Nova in April.
Design on this of disposals we address our climate impacts and risks.
project started in 2003, when the iPhone was still an idea in Steve Jobs head.
We must continue to anticipate change so that we can keep providing the right space for our customers and communities whatever their We go forward future demands helping businesses and people to thrive.
in excellent shape, ready to make acquisitions when the time is right.
Great people In January, we completed the move into new headquarters at 100 Victoria Street, SW1.
This Robert Noel is one of our buildings and it expresses the Chief Executive best of who we are and what we do.
Were on one floor of open-plan workspace supported by innovative technology.
Thought has gone into everything from the way we collaborate to how we minimise energy and waste.
Its the UKs highest rated office fit-out according to sustainability assessment scheme BREEAM.
