Strategic Report 15 Priority #1 Further enhance our differentiated food proposition Our innovative prepared vegetable range has Food will always be at the Product quality been a great success with customers who We know customers value quality when heart of our business.
are increasingly looking for filling, healthy deciding where to shop and it is therefore alternatives to carbohydrates and want to important for us to be ranked above our We have a strong and differentiated food introduce more vegetables in to their diet.
peers in relation to the quality perception of proposition that offers customers marketWe responded to last years demand for our brand.
leading quality, choice and value.
We have courgetti courgette spaghetti and boodles now completed our 3,000 Sainsburys butternut squash noodles by introducing Definition: Our rank is based on a sample of own-brand product quality investment eight more prepared vegetable lines this approximately 1,000 consumers who rated programme and will continue to make year, including first-to-market vegetable the product quality of Sainsburys, Tesco, quality improvements where they matter lasagne sheets and butternut squash waffles.
Over the course of These innovative new lines have helped drive 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 the next year, we will review 125 food ranges, double-digit year-on-year growth for the touching around 60 per cent of our food prepared vegetables category.
Customers continue to rank us ahead 1 1 1 1 We continue to develop our overall food of our supermarket peers for food quality.
offer to ensure customers can buy great Source: HPI Quality Survey Great quality at fair prices quality food at Sainsburys for different Our Food business is resilient.
Our in-store sushi Price perception grocery retailing market remains competitive, concessions are all performing well and offer Our new pricing strategy of regular lower investment in the quality and price of our customers something new to try when they prices reassures customers that they core bySainsburys range delivered volume visit our stores.
can always get a good price, on and off growth of two per cent.
Our strategic focus is promotion.
As a major retailer, in a highly competitive on growing categories where we can increase Definition: See above.
industry, our values make us different and market share such as Deliciously FreeFrom, make strong commercial sense.
Our values our new On the Go range and prepared 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 help us strengthen relationships with all our vegetables.
InSeptember, we launched our stakeholders, build trust, reduce operating On the Go range of breakfast, lunch and th th th costs, mitigate risks and attract and retain snacking lines.
It is a market worth around 4 4 4 talent in a crowded marketplace.
Our values 16 billion and we invested 8 million in our Source: HPI Price Perception Survey also enable us to play a leading role in tackling range, introducing new sandwich and bread some of the challenges facing our customers options, salads and sushi.
We also increased Sales growth Food every day such as household food waste.
the number of breakfast and snacking options Food is our core business but growing on offer, as well as improving existing lines.
To help our customers live healthier lives we our Clothing, General Merchandising and Snacking, in particular, has performed well.
have reduced the sugar in our cereal range Financial Services businesses is an important by an average of 13 per cent, exceeding the part of our strategy.
We know that our The successful launch of our Deliciously Governments 2017 targets of a five per cent customers value greater choice and that FreeFrom range reflected the increasing reduction.
We also removed more than three there is a firm correlation between increased importance of allergen-free food to our tonnes of salt from our canned corned beef loyalty and spend across our whole offer customers.
Around 25 per cent of the UK products without impacting taste or flavour.
when customers buy into these categories.
population includes free from products in 2 their weekly shop.
We have doubled the All our products are sourced with integrity Definition: Year-on-year growth of total sales, new range, incorporating fresh, frozen, and this year we were proud to be named including VAT.
chilled and ambient lines, offering customers the Worlds Best Sustainable Seafood more variety, improved products and Food % Supermarket by the Marine Stewardship market-leading allergen information on Council.
We sold over 490 million of RSPCA- 2014 15 1.0 the packaging.
We also became the only assured products this year and worked with supermarket to offer gluten-free bread 2015 16 0.5 our Dairy Development Group to reduce the freshly baked in our store bakeries.
The range need for certain classes of antibiotics, leading 2016 17 0.5 has proved very popular and we sell nearly to a voluntary withdrawal.
16 Strategic Report Sales growth Demonstrating our respect for our Sales in our Groceries Online channel grew by Customers are choosing to shop across environment we now use nearly 12 per cent over eight per cent and orders increased by channels and are using convenience less electricity than we did in 2005, despite nearly 12 per cent during the year.
We deliver and online more frequently, leading to a growing store space by over 54 per cent.
We expect decline in supermarket sales.
It is therefore Also since 2005, we have reduced packaging that demand for our online grocery service important that we invest strategically so across Sainsburys branded ranges by almost in London will double over the next eight that we can serve our customers whenever, 33 per cent and we continue to work towards years and to help meet that growing demand however and wherever they want.
our target of a 50 per cent reduction by 2020. we opened our first purpose-built online This year marked a significant milestone fulfilment centre in Bromley-by-Bow, East Definition: Year-on-year growth of total sales, on food waste, as we moved to transparent London.
With its cutting-edge technology, including VAT, excluding fuel.
reporting one of only two major retailers it has the capacity to fulfil 25,000 customer to do so and we have set a clear benchmark orders each week.
We now have 151 Groceries Supermarkets % against which we can measure progress.
We Online Click & Collect sites and a growing completed a trial of Waste less, Save more, number of our customers place their order 2014 15 2.2 our five-year initiative to help our customers online and collect their shopping at their local 2015 16 1.6 tackle household food waste in Swadlincote, supermarket.
To add to customer choice, we Derbyshire, with 20 intervention trials.
offer same-day delivery from 29 stores across 2016 17 1.8 These trials ranged from apps to weigh and the UK and are trialling one hour delivery report on food waste to pioneering school to over 40,000 London postcodes through programmes to engage young people on our Chop Chop bicycle delivery service.
introduced our Groceries Online app in 2016 Convenience % to give customers more ways to shop with In addition to providing excellent customer us.
Penetration is steadily increasing, with 2014 15 16.3 service, our colleagues are committed to over ten per cent of orders received through 2015 16 9.3 making a positive difference to our the app, demonstrating the rapidly changing community.
In 2016 17, we generated over nature of customer shopping behaviour.
2016 17 6.5 53 million for charities through the efforts of our colleagues and customers.
This includes Leading customer service nearly 12 million raised through our support Our colleagues continue to deliver marketof Comic Reliefs Red Nose Day.
leading customer service and we won 17 Online % 4 weekly Grocer 33 Awards this year.
In We aim to be a company where people addition, for the past four years we have 2014 15 7.1 love to work and our colleagues are integral won the Grocer Gold Awards for Service and 2015 16 8.8 to the success of our business.
We offer a Availability and we continue to exceed our competitive rewards package, including paid Mystery Shopper internal targets.
2016 17 8.2 breaks, colleague discount and pension.
This 3 T he number of convenience stores stated includes our year, colleagues across the Group will share partnership with Euro Garages.
4 Grocer 33 for 52 weeks to 11 March.
Customer service Availability Serving customers whenever Our colleagues make the difference by Offering our customers the products they and wherever they want delivering great customer service.
We want ensures they have a good shopping A key part of our strategy is to be available to monitor this every fortnight with a Mystery experience.
This makes availability very our customers whenever and wherever they Shopper programme which measures the important.
We measure availability daily want to shop with us.
As at the end of this service level of the three main components and have a minimum standard we expect financial year we have 605 supermarkets and of the customer shopping experience.
Supermarket sales declined nearly two per cent and sales at our Definition: Minimum standards have been Definition: Minimum standards have been convenience stores grew by over six per cent.
exceeded in all three of the main components exceeded.
of the customer shopping experience.
Supermarkets continue to be the main 2015 16 2016 17 grocery shopping channel, responsible for 2015 16 2016 17 Supermarkets Supermarkets over half of the grocery spend in the UK, and Supermarkets Supermarkets we expect this to remain the case.
We are adapting our space and layouts to reflect Gold Gold Convenience Convenience customer requirements for convenience, Convenience Convenience flexibility, speed and choice.
Supermarket shoppers can take advantage of extensive Gold Gold Online Online food ranges, Grocery Click & Collect services and in-store cafes and restaurants.
Source: ABa Our Convenience business grew by over six per cent and we opened 41 new shops including trials of seven franchises in Euro Garages petrol station forecourts.
Strategic Report 17 Our colleagues continue to deliver market-leading customer service Our new Groceries Online app now accounts for ten per cent of orders via our Groceries Online channel Sales at our convenience stores grew by over six per cent Supermarkets continue to be the main grocery shopping channel
