10 Strategic Report The world is changing faster than ever before, Chief shaping the way our customers live their lives.
Growth of shopping via digital channels and Executives customer expectations of speed and convenience are changing the retail industry.
To meet these Letter challenges, we will continue to adapt and evolve our business to meet new shopping habits and provide customers with great products and services at fair prices whenever and wherever they want to shop with us.
e s l e e n o y n a n a h t r e t t e b Strategic Report 11 This has been a pivotal year for Sainsburys.
A pivotal year The strategy we set out in November Our goal is to make our customers lives 2014 was designed to address a changing easier every day by offering great quality 29,112m marketplace and the investments we products and services at fair prices.
Food have made in our core Food business is at the heart of what we do and we have Group sales inc. VAT differentiated us through our combination completed our programme to improve the of quality, choice and value.
We will continue quality of 3,000 food lines that matter most to enhance our food proposition further and to our customers.
We are now reviewing 125 to grow our General Merchandise, Clothing food categories, touching around 60 per cent and Financial Services businesses.
We of our food range, to further develop our food 581m welcomed 30,000 colleagues to our business quality and value.
Underlying profit before tax in September when we acquired Home Retail When we acquired Argos and Habitat in Group plc owner of Argos and Habitat.
September, we became one of the UKs The acquisition will accelerate our strategy leading food, general merchandise, clothing and gives us a strong platform to deliver and financial services retailers a multisynergies and future growth.
product, multi-channel business that offers The retail market remains very competitive.
our customers more choice and gives us the Underlying profit before tax for the Group capability to serve them with even greater is 581 million, down one per cent, and Group speed and convenience.
This has been a pivotal year sales are 29,112 million, up 12.7 per cent on for Sainsburys.
The strategy Sainsburys Bank is a great asset to the Group last year.
These numbers reflect the positive and played a key part in the acquisition contribution made by Argos to the Group.
we set out in November 2014 by enabling us to finance the deal in a Sainsburys market share dropped by 23 basis was designed to address very cost efficient way.
Sainsburys Bank points to 16.3 per cent and, while like-for-like a changing marketplace reached a major milestone this year when we sales are down 0.6 per cent, this is an successfully transferred savings customers improvement on last year, demonstrating and the investments we and our ATM estate on to our newly built, the resilience of our Food business in a have made in our core wholly-owned banking platform.
Profits at Sainsburys continue to make good progress and will Foodbusiness mean we continue to be impacted by ongoing price introduce our new loans platform by the end investment and cost price pressures.
This gives Sainsburys Bank a solid byour combination of Our balance sheet is robust and we are base from which to grow.
We also offer an managing costs carefully.
We are on track to enhanced range of products and services, quality, choice and value.
achieve our current cost saving target of 500 such as a choice of home and car insurance million by 2017 18 and we have committed options with our new panel of insurers Mike Coupe Chief Executive Officer, to a further three-year cost saving target and our new mortgage proposition which J Sainsbury plc of 500 million from 2018 19.
Net debt has launched in April 2017. reduced by 349 million this year.
Consistent with our affordable dividend policy, this years final dividend is 6.6 pence per share, bringing the full-year dividend to 10.2 pence per share.
Our Business Strategy Great Colleagues products making the and services difference at fair prices Our values make us different There for our customers s r e m o t s u c r u o w o n k e W 12 Strategic Report 2 Grow General Merchandise & The new Sainsburys Group Clothing and deliver synergies We are building a business for now and Sainsburys General Merchandise business the future.
We go forward as a combined is well-established and growing.
We are The market remains very Sainsburys Group, strengthened by the focused on developing complementary, addition of Argos, Habitat and Sainsburys competitive and the impact clearly defined general merchandise ranges Bank.
We benefit from the trust customers of cost price pressures across Sainsburys, Argos and Habitat, have in our brands and from the ability to offering our customers the best choice and remains uncertain.
However, offer our customers great value and choice quality at fair prices.
across multiple product categories and we are well placed to channels.
We are well placed to increase Our Tu clothing business provides high street navigate the external customer loyalty across food, general style at supermarket prices and eight million merchandise, clothing and financial services, environment and remain customers buy our clothing.
Our market driving sales, profit and maximising the focused on delivering our share by volume increased by 20 basis points opportunities for growth to create value and we are the sixth largest clothing retailer strategy.
by volume in the UK, with a strong position in womenswear and childrenswear and Mike Coupe Chief Executive Officer, To focus on our four key priorities we have opportunities for future growth in menswear.
J Sainsbury plc closed Netto, Sainsburys Entertainment and We are integrating Argos in to our business our Phone Shops.
The 59 Argos Digital stores located in Sainsburys supermarkets are performing Four key priorities for growth well and sales in stores open for more than a Our strategy remains based on five pillars year are delivering like-for-like sales increases see page 11.
Within this we have prioritised of between 20 and 30 per cent.
Reflecting four key areas of our business where we can the strong performance of the Argos Digital differentiate ourselves, grow and create value: stores, we are accelerating our plans to open 1 Further enhance our the planned 250 Argos Digital stores six differentiated food offer months ahead of schedule.
We continue to invest in our core Food Our 207 digital collection points offer business and to focus on the quality of customers a fast, convenient delivery Sainsburys branded food products.
We have serviceacross eBay, DPD, Tu clothing and, removed multi-buy promotions across our in90 stores customers can also collect Argos food ranges in favour of lower regular prices deliveries.
This gives customers the flexibility and we invest in our prices to ensure we offer to pick-up their parcels when it is convenient customers value for money.
We will always to them and drives footfall in to our be competitive on price.
Sainsburys has a strong heritage of 18 per cent of Group sales at peak times now innovation in key products and categories.
originate online and our strength in digital, For example, we were the first retailer of combined with Argoss leading delivery organic produce in the UK.
We continue to services, including Fast Track, will enable us innovate, targeting growing food categories to grow both now and in the future and give where we can increase our market share, us a crucial competitive advantage.
such as Food to Go and Free From, where we can build on the trust customers have in the 3 Diversify and grow Sainsburys Bank Sainsburys brand to develop and strengthen Sainsburys Bank continues to grow and our offer and become a market leader.
We know that people who buy our financial services We regularly review the layouts of our stores products shop with us more frequently and so that customers can do their shopping spend more money than those who do not, with us quickly and more conveniently.
We giving us a strong platform for growth.
We are investing in our Groceries Online service, have integrated Argos Financial Services in improving the customer experience on our to Sainsburys Bank.
There is opportunity for website and expanding our Click & Collect this to give us a significant boost in customer service.
Demonstrating the speed of change base and operations and we are injecting within retail, the Groceries Online shopping additional capital in areas of Sainsburys app we launched in May 2016 now accounts Bank which will generate good returns.
for over ten per cent of online food orders.
Sainsburys Bank is well set to deliver strong profit growth.
Strategic Report 13 4 Continue cost savings and maintain We are optimistic about balance sheet strength Read about our key priorities on the future In line with other UK retailers, we anticipate the following pages: Our success relies on knowing our customers that cost pressures will continue over the better than anyone else.
We must offer them Priority #1 next few years.
The price of raw materials what they want now and anticipate what Further enhance our and energy is increasing, along with wages they will want in the future, across food, differentiated food proposition and business rates.
Across our business we general merchandise, clothing and financial are focused on finding ways to mitigate the Read more on page 15 services.
As we grow we will become a bigger impact of these rising costs so that we can part of our customers lives and find more Priority #2 continue to deliver for customers, colleagues ways to save them time and money, offering Grow General Merchandise & and shareholders.
them the same great quality at fair prices that Clothing and deliver synergies has been the core of what we do since 1869.
We remain focused on cost reduction and Read more on page 18 efficiency.
By the end of 2017 18 we will I would like to thank the 195,000 colleagues have delivered 500 million of cost savings Priority #3 from across the Group for the market-leading in three years across our business and we Diversify and grow service they deliver and the difference they are committed to a further 500 million Sainsburys Bank make to our customers every day.
Together reduction over the next three years, starting with the values that underpin our business, Read more on page 20 in 2018 19. they differentiate us from our competitors Priority #4 and I am pleased that colleagues across This focus will allow us to continue to invest Continue cost savings and the Group will share in this years bonus of in our business and our colleagues, as well as maintain balance sheet strength 78 million.
provide our shareholders with a return on the Read more on page 22 investment they have made in Sainsburys.
The market remains very competitive and the impact of cost price pressures remains Our values uncertain.
However, we are well placed to As a major retailer, in a highly competitive navigate the external environment and industry, our values differentiate us from remain focused on delivering our strategy.
our competitors, make strong commercial sense and enable us to play a leading role in tackling some of the challenges facing our customers every day.
Our values enable us to be more efficient in our own operations, for example, by using less electricity in our Mike Coupe stores and also by protecting security of Chief Executive Officer, supply in our supply chain.
Through our living healthier lives commitments we are J Sainsbury plc also making it easier for our customers to make healthier choices through product reformulation and innovation.
We are also helping customers to save money and reduce household food waste through our five-year Waste less, Save more initiative.
This is now being rolled out to more than 140 communities across the UK.
As well as building trust among our customers, we know our values help to make Sainsburys a great place to work.
18% of Group sales at peak times now originate online and our strength in digital, combined with Argoss leading delivery services, including Fast Track, will enable us to grow both now and in the future and give us a crucial competitive advantage.
14 Strategic Report Our new same day We launched our Deliciously delivery service FreeFrom range reflecting launched from eight the increasing importance London stores of allergen-free food to customers In September we launched our On the Go range of breakfast, lunch and snacking lines We improved 3,000 Sainsburys branded products and are now reviewing 125 food categories, covering around 60 per cent of our range Our innovative prepared vegetable range has been a great success with customers
