Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report P CA HG IEF E TI ETL XEE CUTIVES REVIEW Thanks to the hard work of everybody in the Group, our plan to Focus, Drive and Broaden the business remains on track.
Booker Group had a good year: customer satisfaction was strong, sales and profi ts were the best weve ever achieved.
Since November 2005 we have been In 2010 we launched Farm Fresh.
DRIVE commenced March 2006 seeking to Focus, Drive and Broaden Sales in the year to 24 March 2017 Booker Wholesale Makro, our cash and Booker Group.
carry businesses had a good year.
We year in a challenging market Tobacco continue to Drive choice, price and We launched CleanPro in 2014. legislation depressed our retail customer service for our customers.
Each year This range of professional cleaning sales and there has been signifi cant we survey 45,000 customers to identify products has been well received movement in commodity prices.
Despite where improvements can be made.
We have 50,000 these challenges the Group continued Customer satisfaction is a key measure customers buying CleanPro each to make good progress on both the within the business and we have made week with sales of 44m per annum.
catering and retail sides of the business.
We continue to improve the good, better, best of the offer in order to FOCUS commenced Choice Up satisfy all customers.
For example, November 2005 Booker seeks to grow brand and own Chefs Essentials chips grew at 31% Booker seeks to become the most brand sales.
and Chefs Larder chips at 9%.
We effi cient operator in our sector.
We In October 2016 we launched launched Chefs Larder Premium continue to improve business effi ciency.
The quality Chips, these are gluten free and have We stop, simplify and standardise work is superb and it is already being already achieved sales of 4m.
We and invest most of the resulting savings bought by 7,000 customers with have won Best Frozen Product in customer service.
We extended the annualised sales of 17m.
at The Caterer Product Excellence use of self-scan and improved stock Awards and Best Frozen Food at the management.
Our close attention to Wholesale Q Awards.
cash has resulted in having 161m of net cash, whilst keeping the Group cost We have also been growing with base in line with last year pre Budgens branded suppliers.
Source: ESA Marketing customer survey on behalf of the Company 04 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report P CA HG IEF E TI ETL XEE CUTIVES REVIEW We have more specialist butchers This has helped strengthen caterer Prices Down and greengrocers within the business satisfaction and grown like-forWe operate in a very price than last year.
We also have skilled like catering sales by 4.4%.
Every week we fishmongers operating in our Makro despite price deflation in the catering monitor prices versus competitors Business Centres.
and during the year our price index remained competitive see graph.
Booker offers a seven days a We have also made good progress We are continuing to keep our week multi-temperature delivery with Group Accounts, such as core line prices at market leading service to both retail and catering Enterprise Group and Rick Stein, levels to provide the best possible customers 70% of the fleet has where we serve these accounts from margin for our customers.
has consistently offered low prices delivery customers pay the same Our Chef Direct business, which on core products and maintains its price for goods as our collect serves national accounts from our promise of helping the customer customers.
Our delivery business distribution centre in Didcot, has during challenging times.
continues to grow from 600m in also had a good year serving clients 2008 9 to 2.3bn in 2016 17. including Byron Burgers, Carluccios, Better Service Prezzo, Aramark and Wagamama.
Our people are doing a brilliant job.
Caterers Small Business Our customers rate Booker people We are privileged to serve 441,000 highly.
Business Centre teams catering customers and 641,000 across the Group have been trained small businesses.
Our catering in PRIDE to help improve the Parking, customers include restaurants, fast Reception, Internal, Delivery and Exit food outlets, licenced premises and experience.
These can be independent, single site locations, We have continued to expand and Group Accounts and National improve our delivery service.
All customers can draw upon the Booker, Makro, Classic and Chef Direct infrastructures.
Catering Retail Bookers Pricing vs Cash & Carry Market Source: IRI Research 4.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.0% 0.0% 1.0% 2.0% 3.0% 4.0% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 05 Prices relevant to the market Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report P CA HG IE EF E TITL XEE CUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Budgens and Londis were acquired Retailers Ritter-Courivaud for 40m and, to March 2017, in We serve 94,000 independent retailers.
Ritter-Courivaud is a speciality foods relation to this acquisition we have Our largest retail customers tend to supplier to the UKs leading restaurants.
be our Premier, Londis, Budgens Ritter had a good year growing sales and Family Shopper symbol club through the Makro business centres Thanks to a lot of hard work by our members.
We also serve our retail club and direct to customers.
IT and central colleagues, we have members, unaffiliated independents integrated the Londis Budgens Booker India and retail national accounts.
systems into the Booker platforms.
In September 2009 we opened our All the teams have done a fantastic Premier first business centre in Mumbai.
We job of growing both brands.
It is a Premier, Bookers symbol group, now have four branches in Mumbai, credit to our teams and the wonderful grew to 3,306 stores 3,213 stores last one in Surat and one joint venture retailers we serve via Premier, Londis, year.
The retail development team branch in Pune.
These serve 21,000 Budgens, Family Shopper, Shop has put a lot of work into building the customers, and have also launched Locally and all our other retailers that sales and profits of existing Premier 200 Happy Shopper symbol retailers we have seen strong growth.
Premier was voted the best which harness the lessons learned symbol group by consumers at the from Premier in the UK for the Kirana Booker Direct CTP Awards.
We continue Booker Direct serves national retail to review growth options in India Premier operates a no cost model for chains from our distribution centres and look forward to developing the members, and has the advantage for with customers including Marks & Booker offer to become the best retailers of providing deliveries and Spencer, most of the cinema chains choice, price and service supplier to also the ability to top-up at their local in the UK and the prison service in Kirana stores and caterers.
We install the fascia England and Wales.
Together the and imagery free of charge and also Group can now serve any independent Sustainability provide a market leading promotion retailer, Group Accounts and National Carbon Trust Standard held for both every four weeks.
All goods are Chains throughout the UK.
delivered at cash and carry prices.
Over 31,000 customers are now BROADEN commenced Family Shopper recycling with the Group through April 2007 We continue to develop Family our packaging and used cooking oil In the UK, Booker seeks to offer the best Shopper, a local discount format.
This helps our choice, price and service to caterers, This is doing well.
At May 2017, we customers save money, increase retailers and small business.
We also have 63 stores and the response to recycling levels and support more seek to become the suppliers preferred this format has been encouraging.
sustainable communities throughout route to market.
In addition, we want the UK.
to sell new products and services and Budgens & Londis reach new customers.
In India we seek LED lighting now installed in 35 On 14 September 2015 Budgens to become the best supplier to Kirana business centres, one distribution and Londis joined the Group.
To achieve these objectives, centre and two distribution centre Budgens serves 156 retailers.
The we are Broadening the business.
freezer rooms with an average overall Budgens consumer is typically ABC1.
Broaden includes: energy saving of 22%.
Londis serves 1,850 retailers with Over 10.5 million litres of used approximately 49% of consumers Digital cooking oil has been recycled, up being ABC1.
Since completion of the Sales at booker.
acquisition, the teams at Budgens up from 979m last year and 15m and Londis have joined forces with Waste to landfill down 73% versus in 2005.
All these sales are delivered the Group.
They have embraced the last year.
We have Booker approach to cash, customer 569,000 customers registered on We donated surplus food equivalent satisfaction and health & safety.
In the the website compared to 490,000 to over 800,000 meals to local year we have opened a net 381 Londis last year.
Customers can view their charities in the last year and have and 6 Budgens outlets.
As a result the account details and order products.
donated over two million meals in the sales have grown strongly.
There are double the number of stock last five years.
keeping units available to a typical We are committed to helping our customer on the website through our retail and catering customers serve special order system.
communities throughout the United Kingdom.
06 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report P CA HG IE EF E TITL XEE CUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Following a trial last year, we have We are very grateful for the support of People fully launched a Driver Academy, our customers, suppliers and everybody Again our team have done a brilliant open to internal and external in the Group and look forward to making job this year.
We are committed to colleagues who wish to develop progress in the year ahead.
continuing to make Booker better and their career with Booker: ensuring safer for colleagues.
We continue to we have the right drivers in place develop talent.
To ensure succession to fulfil succession in this growing needs for our Fresh Departments area of the business.
We currently Charles Wilson are fulfilled with the right people, we have over 50 Drivers working Chief Executive have developed another cohort of towards becoming a Van or Large Trainees through our successful in 17 May 2017 Goods Vehicle Driver in our Booker house Fresh Training Programmes.
This year, a further 52 Butchers, 12 For the twelfth year running, the Fishmongers and 55 Greengrocers performance of the business means graduated and went on to work in our people have shared in our these key departments, supporting success through our bonus system.
With this great team of people, Booker There are currently a further 116 will continue to make progress in the colleagues participating in this years year ahead.
schemes who are due to graduate in Autumn 2017 and we intend to run all Merger with Tesco three schemes again in 2017 18.
On 27 January we announced the planned merger with Tesco to form To build on the expertise of our the UKs leading food business.
This Butchery teams further, we have been combination should improve choice, working with The Institute of Meat to quality, prices and service for the UK raise and recognise the skill level of consumer.
It should also help the Booker our Butchery teams.
In February catering, retail and small business 2017, 8 of our Butchery Managers customer prosper in a challenging were officially awarded the Institute market.
We are continuing to assist of Meat, Master Butcher Award.
This the UK competition authorities in their puts them amongst an elite group of ongoing consideration of the merger just 29 Butchery Professionals in the and it is expected that the merger will UK to hold this award currently.
This complete in late 2017 early 2018, is part of a longer term plan to upsubject to, amongst other things, the skill and develop our future Butchery necessary shareholder approvals.
Managers who are all currently During this process Booker will ensure working through an in house Craft it is Business as Usual.
We are Butcher training programme, which excited by the opportunities the merger has been developed with and is creates for consumers, our customers, endorsed by The Institute of Meat.
Investment in our delivery teams has continued, with development Overall programmes to ensure drivers and Booker Group had another good managers have the knowledge and year.
Our plan to Focus, Drive and skills to operate safely and efficiently, Broaden the business remains on track.
whilst providing a great service for Customer satisfaction was strong and our customers: sales and profits were the best we Our drivers and managers have have ever achieved.
We are planning inductions and annual refreshers to merge with Tesco to create the UKs covering Safe, Secure and Legal leading food business.
This merger training and our vocational should deliver significant benefits drivers complete training for the for consumers, Booker customers, Driver Certificate of Professional suppliers, colleagues and shareholders.
Competence CPC, which is run by our team of in-house trainers and delivery support managers.
