Strategic report Strategic report Chief Executives review Whitbread has had another year This is a significant year of strong growth and continued investment with total Group sales increasing 8.2% to 3.1 billion in Whitbreads history and underlying basic earnings per share increasing by 6.0%, as we celebrate our demonstrating the strength of our core brands.
Total basic earnings 275th anniversary per share increased by 7.3%.
Strategic priorities In 2016 17 we made good progress I am delighted to be leading this great in delivering on our three strategic priorities: to grow and innovate in our British company at this historic time and, core UK businesses: to focus on our strengths to grow internationally: and with such a long and successful history, to build the capability and infrastructure to support long-term growth.
it is right that we take a long-term view Premier Inns strong sales growth of our business in order to safeguard benefitted from the 3,816 gross new UK rooms we opened this year and the the Companys future for many accelerated maturity of the c. 9,000 more years to come.
rooms we have opened over the last two years.
We delivered high customer satisfaction by leading the market on quality and value, achieved occupancy of over 80% with record levels of direct bookings at 94%, all of which supported our strong return on capital.
Costa opened 255 net new stores worldwide and we continue to roll out our successful and fast growing Costa travel formats.
Costa Express had a great year installing over 1,500 machines of which 248 were in international markets.
We are innovating to drive our sales growth and are pleased with the investment we are making to introduce finer coffee concepts, leveraging our new state Alison Brittain Chief Executive 3,816 new Premier Inn UK rooms 8.2% increase in turnover in 2016 17 6.2% growth in our underlying profit before tax to 255 565.2 million net new Costa stores worldwide Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 06 Strategic report of the art Roastery and delivering Premier Inn & Restaurants underlying infrastructure, with the aim of bringing fresher food that our customers will operating profit was up 7.4% to the leadership team closer to the enjoy later this year.
Premier Inn grew total customer and enabling a leaner, sales by 9.0% and the number of rooms more agile business, with faster Internationally, in Germany we grew available by 9.3%, as we opened 3,816 decision-making.
This led to a number our hotel pipeline to five hotels and gross new UK rooms during the year, of changes to my executive team.
our Frankfurt hotel received great whilst achieving high total occupancy guest feedback.
We continue to have Simon Jones was promoted to of 80.2%.
Like for like sales grew by success with our profitable joint venture Managing Director of both Premier Inn 2.3%, benefitting from good RevPAR in the Middle East while our phased & Restaurants and joined the Executive growth of c. 1.4% in catchments where withdrawal from South East Asia is on Committee.
Simon joined Whitbread we did not add capacity and from our plan.
China remains an exciting platform in 2011 and, since then, has been pivotal hotel extension programme which, of growth for Costa and we have a clear to the Premier Inn story, leading on key as expected, diluted our like for like plan to enhance our business.
We have initiatives such as network planning, RevPAR by c. 2%, but overall grew our launched five new concept stores, pricing and marketing.
the results of which give us further Another internal promotion was confidence that we can capitalise Restaurants total sales increased 1.2% Mark Anderson, who has been with on this market opportunity and grow benefitting from the eight net new sites the business for ten years and has led to significant scale.
opened during the year and like for like our property function since 2008. sales declined by 0.3%, slightly ahead During the year we continued to Mark now reports directly to me, which of our competitor set.
strengthen our capabilities to support I believe appropriately reflects the our long-term growth, including Costas underlying operating profit importance of property to our business developing the senior team with a was up 5.3% to 158.0 million, with total and the significant potential for value number of new hires and promotions.
This was driven creation in this area.
Mark also became In November we announced a 150 by UK like for like sales growth of 2.0%, Managing Director, Premier Inn million cost efficiency programme 255 net new stores worldwide and an International.
to help offset investment and sector acceleration in our roll-out of Costa Our values cost pressures.
We have made good Express machines, with 1,585 net new At Whitbread we believe that it is progress this year in areas such as installations.
Margins were down not just what you achieve, but how procurement, supplier consolidation 0.8% pts, slightly ahead of our previous you achieve it.
We aim to deliver great and labour scheduling, which has guidance due to the phasing of financial results for our shareholders, helped maintain margins.
investments into 2017 18. have a positive impact on communities, In the year ahead we will continue As we align our business towards our create fantastic career opportunities for to focus on organic growth and three strategic priorities we incurred our employees and great experiences investing in our customer proposition.
a net non-underlying charge of for our customers, in a safe and This, together with our efficiency 49.8 million 2015 16: 58.6 million, welcoming environment.
programme and disciplined capital predominately relating to the estimated We intend to ensure that everyone management gives us confidence cost of Premier Inn Internationals who plays a part in delivering the in delivering another year of withdrawal from India and South East products and services that our good progress, in line with overall Asia and re-organisation costs customers love is treated with respect expectations.
Whilst we are only seven associated with our cost efficiency and paid appropriately for their work.
weeks into our new financial year programme.
This applies not only to our 50,000 Premier Inn has had a good start The executive team team members, but also to the many to the year and Costa has also seen As Richard Baker mentioned in his people working across the world who positive like for like sales growth, statement, there has been some contribute to Whitbreads success.
although we remain cautious and significant change to the executive expect a tougher consumer I want to take this opportunity to thank team over the last couple of years and environment than last year.
everyone who makes Whitbread the I am grateful to Nicholas Cadbury and company it is for their effort and In the longer term we remain confident Louise Smalley for the stability they commitment throughout the year that, with our significant structural have provided, which has enabled and I am confident that we will work growth opportunities, the power our leadership team to be refreshed together to deliver on our strategic of our brands and the investments so seamlessly.
objectives in the years ahead and that we are making, we will continue to I reported this time last year that we will do so in a way that will make deliver strong returns and sustainable Dominic Paul would be joining the us all proud.
long-term growth for our shareholders.
team as Managing Director, Costa More detailed information on our three Coffee.
Dominic joined us in June 2016, strategic priorities can be found on before which he was responsible for pages 8 to 13. the success of Royal Caribbean outside the US.
Dominic has hit the ground 2016 17 performance running, injecting energy and putting Alison Brittain Group underlying profit before tax rose his personal stamp on our strategy Chief Executive 6.2% to 565.2 million and underlying for Costa.
24 April 2017 basic earnings per share increased 6.0% to 246.48 pence.
Profit for the year was In order to structure ourselves to up 7.4% to 415.9 million and total basic meet our strategic objectives I took earnings per share were up 7.3% to the decision to remove the Whitbread 231.39 pence.
Hotels & Restaurants divisional Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 07
