Strategic report Group Chief Executive Officers strategic review I am very pleased that we have again delivered consistent profit growth in line with our stated targets.
We have achieved this alongside some important strategic developments, particularly the work we have done to enhance our understanding of our customers and to develop our vision for building future value by improving our customers experience.
Same clear strategy We have continued to deliver on the clear strategy for sustainable earnings growth that we laid out in early 2015.
This strategy has remained consistent and is focused on: 1.
Growing profits in our insurance and travel businesses.
Maintaining our efficient operating model.
Customer work Our growing understanding of our customers has provided us with a unique opportunity to use our rich proprietary data to interact with them more efficiently to better understand what they want, Our performance has continued and to deliver it right across the business.
We are also able to identify toprove the strength of the Saga customers who are more likely tohave an affinity with the brand over time, and business model, which builds to use our marketing resources more effectively by targeting and rewarding multi-decade relationships with those customers who are, or have the propensity to be higher-affinity ourtarget demographic through customers HAC.
arange of excellent products andservices.
1 Profit before tax excluding derivatives andOgden impact.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Through this work, we have identified acore group of c. 500k HACs that form around 20% of our customer base, andhave contributed around 80% of So, customer value over the last three years.
This group has the following key characteristics, all of which deliver whats greater lifetime value to Saga.
They: buy premium versions of what we sell: have higher retention levels: and next?
have a higher propensity to buy multiple products across the Group, holding an average of 2.1 core products each.
We now fully understand the journeys by which these customers have developed a high affinity for Saga and Strategic priorities for the coming year the reasons why certain customers have not.
This means that we are now in a In order to continue to deliver the position to improve the efficiency and consistent financial performance that effectiveness of our direct marketing model to better identify and target we have demonstrated as a public existing or potential HACs.
company, and ensure future long-term Historically, we have managed a highly value for shareholders, our strategic effective product marketing approach, priorities for the coming year are: evidenced by industry leading customer acquisition costs in insurance.
This Becoming increasingly 1 marketing was based on average customer-centric returns.
By looking at it from the viewpoint of customer affinity, rather than p14 by value of product, we can significantly refine this model to increase efficiency.
Growing profits in our retail 2 Just as importantly, we have been able insurance and travel businesses to identify customers who have an affinity with the brand but who currently p14 have neither the long tenure nor multiple product holdings.
By considering their purchasing propensities, we can ensure Investing for future growth 3 that we approach and market to them p15 in a way that optimises the likelihood of them developing an affinity with Saga.
Maintaining our efficient 4 operating model p15 Developing our people 5 p15 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 7 Strategic report Group Chief Executive Officers strategic review continued We have made a key improvement to Everyday: to make the little things Confidence in future delivery our systems capability which will enable in life more enjoyable, easier and Our existing strategy is robust.
In our core insurance better value.
in-depth work we have undertaken to and travel businesses, we have two Enhanced Saga products: every better understand our customers has excellent acquisition machines, whose product and service that Saga sells provided the logical next step in the demographic focus means we are will have extra enhancements for evolution of our model.
We are now in constantly touching current and new, our members.
a position to use our enhanced insight, potentially high-affinity, customers.
data capability and membership We believe that the combination of The improved capability enables us to scheme to become a more efficient our increasing customer insight, data monitor in real time what customers are organisation, ensuring: capability and membership will be doing and, just as importantly, what they extremely powerful, helping us to focus We retain and deepen our customer have done while journeying through any our efforts on rewarding, retaining and relationships with: of our systems, both online and through growing our target customer base and increased persistency our call centres.
It will also enable us to deepening our relationship with them.
better cross-sell automatically offer the customer the right Our goal is therefore to grow the number low acquisition costs product based on their history and their of products held by HACs by20% over We improve new customer targeting propensity to buy.
through more efficient acquisition spend Membership We generate increased profits at lower Conclusion the Saga Sagas brand is synonymous with life risk, with lower capital through higher investment case after 50 in the UK.
Thanks to the quality of earnings.
With a clear strategy in place to continue consistent delivery of tailored products, to drive profit growth through the core We are seeing the benefits of this work in underpinned by exceptional service over businesses and enhance the value of our our current business performance.
These many decades, customers often refer most loyal customers, we have made a early signs of successful implementation to being Saga members without ever positive start to the current year, and have increased ourconfidence that we can having run an official membership scheme.
I would like to touch again on the key continue to leverage Sagas differentiated Utilising the customer work we will create takeaways that make Saga a strong model to drive increased customer a membership scheme that rewards and investment case: engagement and loyalty.
This gives us incentivises our customers to both stay further confidence todeliver consistent, How we are different: with Saga and deepen their relationship sustainable earnings growth through with us.
The scheme, which will launch increased efficiency and customer value Our focus on an older and growing inthe second half of the year, is open to across the business.
demographic allexisting Saga customers and will be Our strong customer relationships named Saga Possibilities.
Its mission and brand loyalty leads to better statement is to: Help you, our members, customer acquisition and retention get more out of Saga and domore of the Multiple businesses with tailored, things that matter mosttoyou.
differentiated offerings means the Lance Batchelor business is less exposed and Group Chief Executive Officer Saga Possibilities will be structured carries less risk 28 March 2017 around four key components: The model works Experiences: provide members with a We have consistently delivered steady constant stream of inspiring products earnings growth over time and experiences they can try.
We have demonstrated another year of Expertise: the go-to place for the over strong earnings growth and cashflow 50s for subject matter and expertise, providing information, inspiration and insight on topics that matter most.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our Executive team The right mix Introducing our Executive Team from left to right 1.
Lance Batchelor Group IT Director Group Chief Executive Officer 2.
Matt Atkinson Managing Director, Tour Operations Group Chief Marketing Officer 3.
Roger Ramsden Chief Executive, Saga Cruises Chief Executive, Insurance Broking 4.
Andrew Button Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive, AICL 5.
Karen Caddick Managing Director, Saga Personal Finance Group HR Director ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 9
