Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Chief Executives statement Becoming more popular and connecting with customers We are listening to customers and they are powering the plan to Fix, Rebuild and Grow Morrisons 2016 17 was Morrisons first full year of Fix.
of the Year, National Caf Chain of the Year, David Potts Chief Executive The first year that the new senior team Cheddar Cheese Retailer of the Year, and and our hardworking food maker and International Wine Challenge Supermarket shopkeeper colleagues have been able, of the Year for the second year running.
together, to set about the task of delivering We continue to become more competitive for a sustainable turnaround.
There were several waves of Price That turnaround is being powered by listening Crunch during the year, with low prices held hard to customers and responding quickly.
as long as possible for customers.
Morrisons Customers continue to provide us with the Makes It is a fresh range made by our specialist insight we need to make improvements to the food makers in our stores and in Manufacturing, shopping trip.
During the year, we improved combining our unique craft skills with great the offer, became more competitive and value.
Through these, and other ways of served customers better, thereby becoming simplifying our offer, we are developing a more more popular and re-connecting more with competitive Morrisons price list that provides our core customers.
Customers tell us that the Morrisons offer is Customer satisfaction continues to improve.
good quality and great value, and during the During the year, we introduced a new ordering past year we did much more to improve this system into all stores, which is improving further.
One highlight was our new premium on-shelf availability for customers.
Other ways own label Best range.
We launched nearly of serving customers better included the 500 products in the autumn and a further introduction of more self-service belted During the year, 100 especially for Christmas shoppers.
checkouts, and further forecourt convenience we improved the Customer feedback on the quality and trials which utilise our strengths as a wholesaler breadth of Best range has been excellent, while making the Morrisons brand accessible for offer, became more and we see further significant potential for more customers.
Supplying to Amazon has also competitiveand served more Best products.
customers better We improved the offer in other areas such as The response from our customers has been Food to Go, Free From, Nutmeg clothing, meal very encouraging.
On a like-for-like basis, we solutions and craft beer.
Our improvements are served 4.0% more transactions during the year, starting to be recognised and rewarded, and and 4.6% more during the fourth quarter which we were delighted to win a series of prestigious includes Christmas and new year.
Like-for-like awards during the year.
We won Meat and Fish sales were up 1.7%, and were positive in every Retailer of the Year, In-store Bakery Retailer quarter.
With deflation throughout the year, sales volumes were up.
This means more customers are buying more at Morrisons.
Key Measures Our plan is for this to continue, with Morrisons Morrisons brand warmth becoming a broader, stronger business.
We have many opportunities to invest in growth, and cut waste and costs.
Source: YouGov, 12 week moving average w e 04 12 16 4 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Key Measures 2016 17 quarterly Group 2016 17 LFL quarterly LFL sales number of transactions Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 0.1% 0.7% 2.0% 1.6% 2.5% 1.6% 3.1% 4.3% 4.1% 4.6% Definition Definition LFL sales performance measures the percentage change LFL number of transactions, year-on-year change.
in year-on-year sales excluding VAT and fuel, removing Excludes online.
Listening to our customers... the impact of new store openings and closures in the 2015 16 current or previous financial year.... and responding 2015 16 We significantly expanded our Free From range.
We are confident we can lay the foundations As Andrew noted and Trevor details later, cash to move to the Rebuild and Grow phases flow and working capital continue to improve, of this turnaround.
We have made a good we are making good progress on reducing debt, start, achieving the first 18m of the 50m to and our balance sheet is strong.
This provides 100m incremental profit opportunity that we the platform for delivering growth and for identified across four areas wholesale, online, progressing Morrisons from Fix to Rebuild popular and useful services, and reducing and Grow.
We are following the customer and Although 2016 17 was a good year, it was investing in changes in their behaviour, to grow just the start of the Morrisons turnaround.
profitability in a capital light way.
As well as We have lots more to do and our colleagues our partnership with Amazon, we are working have lots more ideas.
As I set out in my Chief on various new capital light projects such as Executives statement last year, this turnaround Morrisons Daily convenience stores on Rontec will be colleague-led, and so it is proving.
forecourts and the revival of the Safeway brand Our performance so far is entirely due to the for wholesale customers.
We also announced Listening to our colleagues... continuing hard work, passion and dedication of a partnership with Timpson and a new plan for the Morrisons team of skilled food makers and Morrisons.
com to grow profitably across Britain... and responding shopkeepers, and I would like to thank every with Ocado, as well as various initiatives to colleague for their invaluable contribution.
Morrisons Makes It products showcase reduce our gross debt and interest charge.
the best of our colleagues food David Potts Our growth will be assisted by recycling maker skills.
Chief Executive extensive future cost savings back into the customer offer.
We have exceeded our original target of 1bn of savings over three years, but there is more to come.
The new ordering system is a good example of us saving money while becoming better shopkeepers.
It is simpler and saves time for colleagues, and is reducing stock levels.
In addition, we have identified further productivity opportunities in areas such as in-store administration, distribution between Manufacturing and Retail, and procurement.
