Chief Executive Officers statement Starting with the customer first, we made a commitment to make home improvement accessible for everyone, and we are changing our business to support this ambition.
Kingfisher plc | Annual R Kingfisher plc | Annual Repor eport 2016 17 t 2016 17 12 12 Strategic report In January 2016, the leadership team and I set out our plan The benefit to customers is a choice of unique and higher to transform Kingfisher and to become the leading home quality products at lower prices, alongside significant business improvement company.
We have visited thousands of peoples benefits such as higher sales and improved processes.
We homes over the past few years to listen and learn directly from have successfully unified 4% of our products cost of goods our customers what the reality of their lives in their homes is sold including batteries, tool storage and kitchen sink ranges.
Starting with the customer first, we made a commitment This will increase to 20% next year.
to make home improvement accessible for everyone, and we In 2017 we are launching ONE Kingfishers first unique are changing our business to support this ambition.
ranges, designed, developed and priced affordably based on Since then we have been working hard across the business deep customer insights into how they live.
The first product towards the strategic milestones we set out for the first year, ranges are for Outdoor and Bathroom which are rolling as well as focusingon business as usual.
The commitment out over the year to our stores.
The new Outdoor products and dedication of our people is what is making our progress include durable and easy-to-install modular fence panels, and success possible, and I am really pleased with what we uniquely designed sheds and garden furniture with built-in have achieved this year.
In the Bathroom category, the clever new ranges are designed to make the most of limited space in what is generally regarded as the busiest and most space constrained room in the house.
The ranges are supported by a brand new advertising campaign developed to connect with the real We set ourselves a big challenge, and lives of customers.
Teams right across Kingfisher have worked together to bring these ranges to life and I would like to I am delighted with our performance.
We have delivered our key strategic Digital is another key strategic pillar in our plan.
We want to deliver a stronger digital offer to our customers.
Behind the milestones for Year 1. scenes, we have completed the roll-out of our unified IT platform at B&Q stores ahead of plan, and have almost finished with back office and supply chain.
We are progressing with Before I talk about the future, let me take a look back at what the roll-out in Castorama France too.
We are also continuing we have done over the last 12 months.
We set ourselves a big to invest in our website capabilities, and we are developing a challenge, and I am delighted with our performance.
We have digital platform to help our customers through every step delivered our key strategic milestones for Year 1.
We have also of their home improvement journey.
I believe these solutions delivered both sales and profit growth, driven by the UK and are revolutionary and will be a game changer in the future.
Poland, and we have benefited from operational efficiencies The third transformational pillar is Operational Efficiency where coming through earlier than planned.
we have achieved savings ahead of plan, driven mainly by our We have progressed well towards creating a unified, unique Goods Not For Resale programme.
and leading home improvement offer.
We know that our Alongside these pillars, Retail Operations is a key focus area customer needs across our markets are more similar than for us.
Last year we launched four Big Box best practice stores, different, and we have begun unifying our offer to answer in the UK, France, Poland and Russia and early results are their needs.
Cross-functional and market teams worked as one to build the approach together.
In addition, we celebrated th the opening of our 500 Screwfix store in the UK, and a further 10 in Germany.
com 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT CONTINUED It has been a busy and exciting time for our business and I am pleased with our performance this year, as well as the delivery As I go around our business visiting of our key Year 1 milestones.
We have learned a lot along the way and we have taken on board these learnings as we stores, distribution centres and offices, prepare for our second year of the plan, and start planning for Year 3.
In 2017 18 the level of activity across the company will I am constantly impressed by the increase, and we are ready for this.
dedication, enthusiasm and expertise Over the course of the year, I have strengthened our leadership team with two key Group Executive appointments.
Jean-Paul Constant joined us in the summer as Chief Sales and Retail Operations Officer after spending 30 years at Decathlon in the UK, France and Australia.
Jean-Paul is leading the Looking ahead, we are in a globally challenging political and ONE Kingfisher Retail Operations strategy for the company, economic environment.
Some events occurred last year that working closely with the CEOs of our retail operations.
Alastair were not widely expected, like the result of the EU referendum Robertson joined as our Chief People Officer in October after in the UK, and other equally unpredictable events may still holding senior roles, most recently at Tetra Pak and C&A.
Longer term, supported by the expertise will drive our vitally important people agenda.
In addition, Marc and energy of our colleagues, we remain confident in our Tnart was appointed to the role of CEO of Kingfisher France, ability to deliver our plan, which is our key growth driver, both and will have responsibility for Castorama and Brico Dpt in from the financial benefits the transformation will unlock and France.
Marc has held a number of senior roles at Kingfisher, the stronger business it will create.
most recently as CEO of Castorama France.
In June our Chairman, Daniel Bernard, will step down after I would like to take the opportunity to say a few words about serving 11 years on the Board, and eight as Chairman.
As I go around our business visiting stores, like to take the opportunity to personally thank Daniel for his distribution centres and offices, I am constantly impressed by support and counsel to the business.
His deep understanding the dedication, enthusiasm and expertise of our people.
Our of retail, his passion for people and his great leadership, have colleagues are a vital part of our journey and one of the key been invaluable to Kingfisher, the Board, the leadership team strengths of our business.
This year some of our businesses and of course, to me.
He has overseen new strategic thinking won awards for being great places to work.
Congratulations as well as the successful first year of transformation with to Screwfix in the UK, Brico Dpt in Spain and Castorama challenge and dedication.
I am happy that Andy Cosslett will in Poland.
join the Board in April and succeed Daniel as Chairman in June.
Andys consumer industries experience fromcompanies such as Unilever, Cadbury Schweppes and Intercontinental Hotels Group, will be a great asset and addition to the Board.
I am Next year the level of looking forward to working with Andy and the Board as we activity across the company progress our plan.
will increase, and we are Vronique Laury ready for this.
Chief Executive Officer Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 14
