Chief Executive Officers Review We are trusted to be there to help our customers celebrate their life moments and milestone events.
Karen Hubbard Chief Executive Officer Overview However, with the benefit of fresh eyes, I believe there I am pleased to report another record year at Card are additional opportunities to further strengthen the Factory in terms of both sales and underlying profit business for the longer term.
Throughout the year we have continued to provide a compelling offer with extensive ranges of We are trusted to be there to help our customers designs across our cards, party products, dressings and celebrate their life moments and milestone events.
Our ranges continue to resonate well with our business model, with its integrated supply chain, allows customers who recognise the quality and value that us to provide an unrivalled offer to our customers.
particular, we have the widest range of high quality cards, with innovative designs and styles, all available at We have also strengthened and innovated our offering, compelling prices.
Together, it means that our adding line extensions in both card and non-card and customers can find quality cards to say exactly what further successful seasonal ranges.
During 2016 our they wish to say at a price that is affordable for them.
Mothers Day offer saw the single highest sales day in Card Factory history.
Our store and online offering has enabled us to provide great value for our customers Market update who see us as their retailer of choice for such important The latest independent research published by OC&C in events.
March 2017 has confirmed that a number of important and established market trends that were highlighted at Since joining, I have undertaken a detailed strategic the time of our IPO in 2014 remain as valid today: review of the business.
Having done so, I am confident the market for single greeting cards is well that our existing, proven four pillar strategy is the right established, robust and resilient: it continues to show one to ensure future business growth.
modest growth in value terms and remains stable in terms of volume, supported by a growing and ageing Over the past year, it is this established strategy that population this trend in volume and value is allowed us to deliver a good performance in a forecast to continue: challenging retail market.
Our LFL sales remained the sending of physical greeting cards is deeply positive and our business continued to deliver best-iningrained in UK culture with high levels of emotional class margins whilst remaining highly cash generative, attachment to card purchasing: allowing another 15p special dividend to be paid to shareholders.
12 12 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Another driver of Card Factory fascia LFL growth was there has been no meaningful shift in the use of our website, cardfactory.
We have made good digital greetings as a replacement for the physical progress with this segment of the business, as is card: outlined further below within my commentary on online the online personalised card segment remains an development.
attractive niche, not yet fully targeted by Card Factory: Looking forward, we intend to maximise LFL growth Card Factory has maintained significant clear blue through: i ensuring we leverage our Design Studio to water versus its competitors in terms of the continue improving the designs of our card ranges and consumers perception of value: and innovation in our non-card ranges: and ii focusing on retail disciplines, in particular ensuring improved Card Factory continues to grow market share in availability, better space and merchandising planning, terms of both volume and value continuing a and a greater focus on customer service and consistent trend seen since the Companys formation operational standards.
New store roll out Strategic performance Our internal property team has enabled us to continue We continue to make good progress against our four to open and operate new stores efficiently and in a cost established strategic pillars: effective manner and we have been successful in locations where we were previously unrepresented.
LFL sales growth Card Factory stores delivered positive like-for-like We opened 51 net new stores in FY17 across a variety of growth in the year of 0.4% notwithstanding a tough retail locations including high streets, shopping centres comparative FY16: 2.8% and the lower levels of and retail parks, providing the opportunity for more footfall experienced by the general retail market.
customers to experience us in new markets.
In total we Including cardfactory.
co. uk, LFL sales growth from the had 865 stores at the end of the financial year 31 Card Factory fascia was 0.6% FY16: 3.0%.
The quality of our estate is quite I believe that we can do better and it was pleasing to remarkable: of our stores open for over one year, only deliver a good Christmas trading performance with five less than 1% of the estate were loss making and cumulative like-for-like sales growth for the fourth their aggregate loss was only 0.1m at store quarter returning to the expected historic range of 1% contribution level.
Looking forward, we continue to have a strong pipeline In card, we continued to focus on introducing new of potential new stores, including a number of styles and designs, whilst maintaining our value offer opportunities in retail parks, a segment of the market customers can still buy high quality cards at prices that where we are seeking to increase our presence.
We are up to two-thirds lower than that charged for similar expect to add a further 50 net new stores to our estate products by our principal competitors.
in the current financial year.
In non-card, our design and buying teams developed a We continue to monitor developments across our number of new ranges, including our successful Pugs competitors and the broader retail space to ensure that range, a broader selection of wedding gifts, innovation we are well positioned to take advantage of property in gift bags and boxes and new candle designs.
This opportunities that may materialise.
design and innovation has been recognised and well received by our customers.
For the year as a whole, the I believe that there is a significant opportunity in the proportion of sales from non-card items increased to Republic of Ireland.
This in part was as a result of our number of detailed studies of the market and its EPOS system acting as an enabler to drive average dynamics: we think our offer will be seen to be very transaction value to help offset downward pressure on attractive to the potential customer base.
update will be provided at the interim results.
Across both geographies, we continue to target a cost-effective estate of 1,200 stores, across high streets, shopping centres and retail parks, capable of driving strong returns whilst maintaining the quality inherent in the Card Factory brand.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 13 Chief Executive Officers Review continued 3. Business efficiencies 4.
Online development The Group has consistently delivered one of the best We have two online sites cardfactory.
co. uk and operating profit margins in the retail sector and gettingpersonal.
continuing to achieve this, whilst offering our customers value, means that we have to maintain the most efficient We see cardfactory.
co. uk as offering a Card Factory and lowest cost base.
customer a compelling range of personalised cards and gifts with the same focus on quality and value as are As referred to within our Chief Financial Officers found in our stores.
We are also evaluating options for Review and previous announcements, we have for some including more non-personalised products on the site, time anticipated further significant cost pressures, in including balloons and party products.
We believe there particular foreign exchange and wage rates.
Whilst our are growth opportunities for cardfactory.
co. uk and have competitors are facing the same challenges, we have a invested in our talent and renewed the focus on the competitive advantage by virtue of our vertically offer to deliver profitable sales growth.
Sales growth of integrated model and resulting superior operating c50% in FY17 for cardfactory.
co. uk was solid despite margins.
Our value proposition and our response to strong prior year comparatives FY16: c500%.
We are external challenges should present an opportunity to aiming to maintain this positive growth in FY18 through further strengthen our market position if we execute leveraging this approach.
We will remain conscious of our customers sensitivity to price points, ensuring that we are We continue to have strong aspirations for delivering the right customer offer to retain and grow gettingpersonal.
co. uk, which is focused on personalised our market share.
Whilst this remains a relatively small and profitable part of the Group in terms of both sales and We have a defined business efficiencies programme in profit contribution, its financial performance in the year place to help mitigate, where possible and appropriate, was disappointing with sales down by 2.6%.
Given lower the impact of our cost headwinds.
We have already conversion rates, investment in the management started to see initial benefits of recent investment in our structure and some one-off costs, the EBITDA buying function and loss prevention team.
Our LED performance of 2.8m FY16: 4.1m was below our conversion programme is also progressing well, further expectations, having grown by almost 150% over the reducing our cost to operate.
Looking ahead, I see further business efficiency We have made some significant changes in this business opportunities including: lowering the cost of sales during the year, including recruiting a new senior team, through better buying: driving lean fulfilment in stores investing in online talent and renewing the focus on through supply chain efficiencies: and maintaining product and the customer experience.
operational productivity in stores through simplicity of operations.
We have commenced a number of initiatives Whilst we are early in the turnaround phase for focused on these areas: I will provide a more detailed gettingpersonal.
co. uk, we are encouraged by the report on progress in due course.
increased site visitors and conversion rates with customers responding positively to the innovation in new product ranges.
I am optimistic that we can make significant progress with this business in terms of both sales and profit contribution to the Group.
Looking ahead, the key focus areas across both online channels will be implementing a new and better digital marketing approach: improving the look and feel of our websites: and further innovating our personalised product ranges.
14 14 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s We have undertaken our first colleague engagement Other strategic priorities survey and throughout the past 6 months we have been Alongside a continued focus on these four strategic actively listening to our colleagues.
They are proud to pillars, my strategic review identified opportunities to work in a business with such a strong growth story, but further strengthen our business for all stakeholders, and in some important areas we can do better for them.
We to enhance future shareholder returns, with a focus on have too many gaps in our store management teams, three areas further targeted investment, greater our employee turnover is too high: and we can offer engagement with colleagues, and listening even more better training to improve loyalty.
Each of these issues to our customers.
are already being addressed and will deliver noticeable returns over the medium term.
Ongoing investment to drive shareholder value As highlighted a year ago, in order to optimise the To support opportunities in this area, we have recruited benefits of our existing EPOS system the Board a new Group HR Director to ensure that we remain commissioned an independent detailed review of a focused on giving our colleagues across the business - potential software upgrade to enable further system in the design studio, our print works, stores, distribution improvements and efficiencies to be delivered.
This and support centres - a great place to work, and on review was completed during the year and we building on our culture to ensure further success.
concluded that greater value could be driven by a switch to an alternative software provider, resulting in a Listening to our customers non-cash one-off charge of 1.1m.
All remaining nonThroughout the year we have ensured that we have EPOS stores c300 stores in total will be converted to listened to our customers and they have shared the the new EPOS system during FY18, allowing the areas where they feel we are unrivalled and where they business to introduce contactless payments and the think we could do even more.
We remain a brand that is sale of third party gift cards.
We will then upgrade the seen to provide great value for money and can be relied existing EPOS stores to the new software package in upon to have the best prices across the entirety of our FY19.
Having the entire estate operating on this range.
They appreciate our wide range of cards and common platform will leave us well placed to fully continue to be pleasantly surprised at the quality for leverage future growth opportunities from this such value.
We have now introduced a number of investment over the medium term.
ranges that we previously did not offer and our customers were delighted with these new ranges which As mentioned we have also invested in our online have subsequently become strong sellers for us.
businesses, marketing team and various head office functions to ensure that we have the right However, we can also do things better.
We can improve infrastructure, talent and capacity to drive strategic speed of service: make our shops more convenient to priorities and growth.
shop: and generally improve the shopping experience.
A number of these will be addressed through our The Board will continue to assess further incremental revised EPOS roll out and we are also completing work investment across the Group on a case by case basis, on store planning and stocking.
taking into account the scale, likelihood and timing of anticipated returns.
This ongoing, controlled investment will ensure that we continue to deliver on the four pillar Summary & outlook strategy and deliver strong returns to our shareholders I remain confident in the resilience and robustness of over the medium term.
the card industry itself and the ability for Card Factory to continue to excel.
Card Factory has and will continue to gain share on the basis of our highly attractive and Engagement with our colleagues differentiated quality and value proposition.
We will also I have visited many of our stores over the past year and continue to increase the mix of both our non-card I have seen first-hand how much our colleagues care products and online sales as we further improve our about and are committed to serving our customers.
We offering in these areas.
This year we will continue to all recognise that the success of the Card Factory focus on our areas of differentiation and on the business is down to the ongoing commitment and additional opportunities that I have identified, and in contribution from our colleagues.
Our customer facing particular to deliver in the areas that will enable us to be teams hold a key relationship with our customers and, efficient into the future, recognising the external through them, we can continue to be the highly pressures faced by all retailers in the current successful retailer that we have been in the past.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 15 Chief Executive Officers Review continued We have a strong brand and recognition as a market leader in our area of expertise.
Our talented teams across the business continue to deliver for our customers and we continue to invest for the future.
We have the capabilities and strategy to deliver going forward which will enable us to offer our customers the quality products at a great price that they have become accustomed to from us.
Whilst the new financial year is only two months old and seasonal sales patterns are distorted by Easter and Mothers Day falling three weeks later than last year, we are pleased with everyday like-for-like sales in the year to date.
I look forward to providing a further trading update at our AGM in May.
Karen Hubbard Chief Executive Officer 27 March 2017 16 16 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s We have the widest range of high quality cards, with innovative designs and styles, all available at compelling prices.
51 net new stores were opened.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 17
