Strategic Report 08 Chief Executives Review Clarity of purpose During the past 12 months our thirst for improvement has continued, despite the numerous external challenges that we have had to overcome.
We have delivered significant business Our dened benefit pension scheme improvement across our brands, assets, was closed to future accrual further infrastructure, organisation and our reducing our corporate risk prole.
teams, to support the successful Benets from our Fit for the Future long-term development of the Company.
enabling programme began to lter through as planned, including The unexpected and unwelcome signicantly better customer service, announcement of a new punitive tax tighter inventory management and regime associated with the manufacture the implementation of a Companyof soft drinks with added sugar had the wide reorganisation.
potential to be a major business Strong cash ow resulted in a net distraction.
However, I am pleased to cash position of 9.7m.
report that we have continued to place consumers at the heart of our business, Soft drinks market performance not regulators, and have responded The UK soft drinks market has positively to changing consumer tastes performed robustly across the last 12 and preferences across our portfolio.
months, with growth of 1.2% in value and We will of course continue to work with 1.6% in volume.
This total market position the various government bodies involved masks a higher degree of volatility than in the new regime to ensure that this in prior years, both in terms of monthly new regulatory environment is deployed market movements and individual appropriately and with as much sub-category performance.
As we previously forecast, deation has In this reporting period: eased across the latter part of the year.
We maintained overall market share However, the more structural element in UK soft drinks with total Group of this deation, related to the continued revenue of 257.1m, an underlying growth of the lower value water increase of 1.5% on the previous year.
category, has continued to impact the profit before tax increased 4.4% on total market.
Stills experienced volume the prior year to 43.1m.
growth of just over 3% and value growth Statutory profit before tax and of 1%, with water growth continuing to exceptional items increased 2.7% be the driving force.
In contrast, the on the prior year to 42.4m.
carbonates sector experienced modest Operating margin before exceptional ination, growing value by just over 1% items improved 50bps to 16.8% versus a at volume position.
following our continued tight cost control.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 09 W e have made considerable progress across the business over the last 12 months and delivered a solid financial performance in volatile and uncertain market conditions.
Roger White, Chief Executive A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 10 Chief Executives Review continued The past year has seen a number Strategy of material changes to the macro In times of elevated uncertainty, clarity environment in which we operate of purpose and consistency of approach the soft drinks sugar tax, the UKs yield the best outcome in our experience.
decision to leave the EU, the devaluation We have remained consistent to our of sterling and increased geopolitical approach and principles across the past volatility.
However, perhaps most year, focusing on: important to our business are the strongly dierentiated brands: continuing development of UK eective and exible operations: consumer preferences in soft drinks, the innovation based on consumer further consolidation and development understanding: of our customer environment and growth driven partnerships: and nally, the advances across the digital leveraging the strength and communication landscape we operate commitment of our teams.
We have continued to respond positively and with pace to these In each of these areas we have changes, focusing on the opportunities invested eort and resources to that arise.
drive improvement and thus increase competitiveness.
Our innovation has Our long-standing reformulation and been instrumental in building our product development programme has portfolio into the lower and no sugar seen our portfolio develop signicantly consumer space and our technical across the past year.
In March 2017 developments in this area are critical we announced our intention to meet to our future success.
Our investment consumers changing tastes and in our assets and infrastructure has preferences with a number of further continued with the introduction of new significant portfolio developments.
glass lling capability at Cumbernauld The successful development and and the announcement of our intention launch of Rubicon Spring and IRN-BRU to extend PET capability to our Milton XTRA have contributed to our forward Keynes site.
This gives us a exible development plans, giving us the platform to improve our service, control insight and confidence to announce our costs and ensure we are capable our intention that over 90% of Company of adapting our operations to meet owned brands will contain less than 5g the portfolio needs of the future.
of total sugars per 100ml by the autumn of 2017.
This is a significant and positive Our core partnerships, with Rockstar move which supports our consumerand the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, have focused strategy, at the same time continued to develop across the period, as reducing our overall exposure to with notable extensions to the territories regulatory changes.
covered under our Rockstar agreement.
In September 2016 we signed a further During the course of the last financial exclusive extension with Rockstar for a year our key brands have benefited from further seven territories, including the continued investment and innovation.
The Snapple brand IRN-BRU and Rubicon in particular exit has enjoyed growth of over 20% across the full year with strong momentum 2016 17, with significant product based on positive brand fundamentals.
innovation, packaging advancements A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 11 and further distribution growth in the Summary UK and internationally.
The expansion We have made considerable progress of these selective partnerships remains across the business over the last 12 an important part of our long-term months and delivered a solid financial growth strategy.
performance in volatile and uncertain market conditions.
The growth drivers We have enjoyed an excellent of our core brands, innovation, performance from our Funkin cocktail partnerships, Funkin and International business building on the strong progress remain at the heart of our future plans.
made last year, our first year of We are operating from a well-invested ownership.
The Funkin team has and sustainable asset base, with our new continued to deliver excellent organisational structures established to opportunities to customers to access support growth.
We will continue to cocktail market growth with simplicity, seek opportunities to grow shareholder authenticity and excitement.
We value by utilising our full suite of options anticipate continued growth for the our organic growth potential, our Funkin business in the traditional strong balance sheet, our core on-trade environment and also from competencies and our strong culture our planned launch into retail, with a and I believe we are well placed to new ready to mix cocktail product format continue to deliver consistent long-term which has exciting brand development shareholder value.
and growth potential for the future.
It has been a very busy, and at times unsettling, year for many of our colleagues as we have implemented significant levels of change, culminating in a Company-wide reorganisation programme in the final quarter.
Following our prior year investment in assets and systems, the reorganisation Roger White has allowed us to streamline and Chief Executive improve our organisational structure, reducing employee numbers by around Items marked with an asterisk are nonGAAP measures.
Denitions and relevant 10% whilst improving operating reconciliations are provided in the Glossary eectiveness and exibility.
I would like on pages 130 to 132. to thank all our teams across the business who have responded positively to the challenges we face and have now helped to create a stronger business, more capable of delivering against our long-term potential.
An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7
