Redefine International P. L. C. 04 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Highlights Chief Executives Superior income 6.3% dividend yield on NAV 6.3% UKREIT average 4.1% report Sustainable income Diverse portfolio with WAULT 7.4yrs of7.4 years to first break and 7.3 years weighted debtmaturity We remain committed to becoming the Growing income UKs leading income focused REIT and to 39% Improved portfolio quality with 39% indexed income delivering upper quartile income returns and high yielding incomeled development initiatives relative to other UK-REITs.
2017 has been a year of heightened global Strategic priorities and political uncertainty and prospects of In February 2017 we held an inaugural Capital continued volatility across markets.
Ina Markets Day and set out the Companys world where change is happening at an strategic priorities which have the goal of everincreasing pace, our strategy to be the delivering superior, sustainable and growing UKs leading income focused REIT is well income returns.
I am therefore pleased to report significant growth and transactional activity another solid set of results, with underlying these priorities underline our ongoing earnings per share at 2.75 pence, in line with ambition to become the UKs leading recent guidance and EPRA NAV per share up income focused REIT.
Our initial earnings target of 2.7 to 2.8 pence per share has been achieved and in only six Results and dividend months we have made material progress in Underlying earnings increased by 7.6 per improving the quality of the portfolio so as to cent to 49.8 million 2016: 46.3 million.
deliver longterm sustainable income returns Underlying earnings per share are in line with and enhanced growth prospects.
guidance at 2.75 pence and form the base from which we will grow income in line with Scalable business our mediumterm growth target of 3.0 to There are a number of long-term benefits 5.0per cent per annum.
associated with greater scale, including greater Mike Watters EPRA NAV increased by 3.5 per cent to access to capital markets and liquidity, a lower Chief Executive Officer 41.4pence per share 2016: 40.0 pence per cost of capital, overhead efficiencies and share supported by a 3.0 per cent likeforlike operational flexibility.
However, these benefits increase in the value of the Groups portfolio.
will remain secondary to securing the right income focused investment opportunities for The Board has declared a second interim our shareholders.
dividend of 1.3 pence per share taking dividends declared for the full year to The acquisition of a further 32.8 per cent 2.6pence per share.
The full year dividend stake in International Hotel Properties Limited reflects a pay-out ratio of 94.5 per cent IHL by way of a scheme of arrangement, of underlying earnings, delivering on our asannounced in August 2017, will result in the strategic priority of distributing superior issuance of approximately 45.9 million new income returns which are fully covered Redefine International shares.
In addition, by underlying earnings and aligned with the Company will reach agreement later operating cash flow.
The total dividend for today to acquire a further 5.0 million shares the year of 2.6 pence per share reflects a representing an 8.9 per cent stake in IHL 6.3per cent yield on EPRA NAV, over 50 per from Redefine Properties on the same terms cent higher than the UKREIT average of as the scheme of arrangement.
new Redefine International shares will be Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 05 Our investment philosophy is simple: we look to invest in and extract value from assets which can deliver consistent and growing incomereturns.
issued in consideration representing 0.7per The disposals completed during the year are Our relentless focus on maximising income cent of the current issued share capital.
testament to our strategy as set out above.
delivered from the portfolio is evidenced Thecompletion of these two transactions will These actions, combined with disciplined by the continued high level of occupancy result in the Groups overall interest in IHL reinvestment, are continuously improving achieved at 97.7 per cent 2016: 97.7 per cent.
IHL will be delisted the quality of the portfolio and its ability to 235 leasing events were completed during and the portfolio will be managed as part deliver longterm sustainable and growing the year reflecting a 3.9 per cent 0.6 million of the Groups existing hotel portfolio.
increase on passing rent and a 0.7 per cent valued at 104.4 million, the assets include increase on ERV.
Excluding temporary leases, The Company is at advanced stages of gross annualised rental income increased by the Hampton By Hilton at Gatwick Airport, negotiation on the sale of a portfolio of the Holiday Inn Express, Edinburgh and 5.0 per cent and 4.9 per cent on passing rent German retail assets for approximately and ERV respectively.
four Travelodge hotels providing longdated 200million.
The sale would include the uncapped CPIlinked income.
The acquisition repayment of associated debt facilities.
The redevelopment and expansion of existing is expected to provide a yield on equity of over Thisopportunistic disposal capitalises on an assets remains an important part of our 10 per cent which will be earnings enhancing exceptionally strong investment market and strategy to enhance the quality of the portfolio and provide exposure to assets demonstrating an approximate 17 per cent increase in the and deliver attractive income returns on strong trading performance.
This acquisition value of the Euro relative to Sterling over the marginal investment.
Capital expenditure clearly demonstrates our ambition to increase investment period.
during the year totalled 19.6 million with scale through investing in the right earnings current capital projects anticipated to provide The Company intends to recycle the disposal enhancing opportunities.
proceeds into new investments which Income focused portfolio are in line with the Companys strategy of Efficient capital structure enhancing the quality of the portfolio and its Our strategic priority to improve our We are focused on further strengthening the growth prospects.
A number of investment portfolios exposure to more resilient property balance sheet by mitigating refinancing risk opportunities have been identified which fundamentals supports our target to deliver and efficiently reducing leverage, whilst also are at various stages of due diligence.
In secure, sustainable and growing income.
limiting the impact on income.
particular, the Company is currently in Ourinvestment philosophy is simple: we look The Groups loantovalue ratio of 50.0 per exclusive negotiations to acquire a portfolio of to invest in and extract value from assets cent, reflecting transactions post year end, high quality assets in the UK which, if acquired, which can deliver consistent and growing is at the top end of our mediumterm target would utilise the majority of the disposal income returns.
Equally, we look to recycle of 45 to 50 per cent.
The income yield is expected to be capital from assets providing limited further further 44.0 per cent interest in the Leopard commensurate with the yield achieved on the rental and or capital growth expectations, portfolio during the second half of the year disposal and likely to be accretive to investors where business plans have been successfully raised leverage temporarily above 50 per cent over the medium term.
However, there executed and value creation maximised.
but this has been largely addressed through can be no guarantee that such acquisition It has been a productive year in terms of successful disposals and the acquisition of the will proceed to completion, and a further both investment and disposal activity.
Over controlling interest in the IHL hotel portfolio announcement will be made by the Company, 148million was generated from asset sales at post year end.
as appropriate, in due course.
a premium of 12.2 per cent to book value with a further 11.0 million sold post year end.
Redefine International P. L. C. 06 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report All our medium-term Chief Executives targets remain inplace.
report continued The Groups weighted average cost of debt Our income focused and diversified portfolio Growing our business sustainably stands at 3.1 per cent 2016: 3.4 per cent, provides limited exposure to any single sector On the Corporate & Social Responsibility below our mediumterm target of 3.2 to or occupier with the opportunity to allocate front, the Group has been proactive in 3.4per cent.
The reduction in our interest capital to assets and sectors where we identify ensuring compliance with forthcoming Energy costs has provided enhanced interest cover the best opportunities.
We are increasingly Performance Certificate EPC regulations.
ata Group level of 3.2 times 2016: 2.7 times.
looking to invest in locations and sectors Over 500 EPCs have been reviewed or with longterm structural support driven by renewed eliminating compliance risk in The longterm debt secured against four of occupier demand, infrastructure investment advance of the 2018 deadline.
On Green our UK Shopping Centres was successfully and strong demographics.
initiatives, we have improved our GRESB restructured in the second half of the year rating for the second year running, and we to reduce leverage and interest costs.
Significant progress has been made in have conducted tenant surveys at our UK Theaggregate facility of 167.8 million was strengthening our balance sheet and we will Shopping centres to help us develop better reduced to 146.1 million, extended to continue to target a lower leverage structure experiences for occupiers and customers April2042 and included the termination of the over time.
For certain centres this has resulted in historic profit share arrangement on Grand the Groups average debt maturity is already the implementation of electric vehicle charging Arcade, Wigan.
The aggregate prepayment in excess of seven years and with material bays, provided free of charge to customers.
and restructuring costs of 27.6 million covenant headroom and interest cover 2016 marked ten years since the Groups provided a marginal return of approximately over three times, this has resulted in limited listing and to celebrate we have been paying 10 per cent, resulting in an efficient reduction refinancing risk and strong cash flow cover.
it back with community projects called Ten in leverage.
All our mediumterm targets remain in place.
Each centre has invested ten days Our growth target of 3.0 to 5.0 per cent per Financial discipline during the year towards initiatives designed to annum in underlying earnings per share support the communities in which we operate.
In February 2017, we aligned underlying reflects the confidence we have that our earnings to the EPRA measure, adjusted business will continue to deliver superior, Outlook for limited Company specific noncash sustainable and growing income.
Earnings The income return from direct real estate adjustments.
Utilising this industry standard growth is driven with focus on all aspects in the UK has contributed approximately metric will provide a closer alignment of of our income statement.
The continuous 75percent of total direct real estate returns earnings to operating cash flow.
Our dividend improvement in the quality of our portfolio over the longterm, and our income focused for the year was fully covered, with the is supporting rental growth expectations.
portfolio is well placed to capitalise on this payout ratio of 94.5 per cent within our We are seeing strong occupier demand for trend in the future.
With growing global target of 90 to 95 per cent.
Progress against our logistics, hotels and retail park assets appetite for predictable income returns, our mediumterm financial targets has been 47per cent of the UK portfolio supported webelieve our incomeled strategy to deliver positive with key metrics largely on target or by 38.9 per cent of the overall portfolio being market leading shareholder distributions moving in the right direction.
subject to inflationlinked and fixed rental remains extremely attractive.
In addition, we have a number The expectation of rising interest rates in of incomeled asset management initiatives the UK in the near term appears increasingly planned and underway to support our growth likely.
Despite this, interest rates remain targets.
Weighted average cost of debt has exceptionally low by historic standards and reduced to 3.1 per cent which, combined the outlook for longerterm rates remains with improvements in our EPRA cost ratio is benign, suggesting that the search for yield providing positive operating leverage.
islikely to endure as a key investment theme.
We remain committed to becoming the UKs leading income focused REIT and to delivering 31 August upper quartile income returns relative to other Key metrics Mediumterm target HY1 HY2 2017 UKREITs.
Underlying EPS guidance: 2.7 2.8 p n a n a 2.75 Payout ratio % 90.0 95.0 96.3 92.9 94.5 Mike Watters Rental income growth likeforlike % 2.0 5.0 3.3 4.3 3.7 Chief Executive Officer LTV % 45.0 50.0 49.9 50.0 50.0 26 October 2017 Interest cover times 3.0 3.1 3.4 3.2 Cost of debt % 3.2 3.4 3.3 3.1 3.1 1 EPRA cost ratio excluding direct vacancy costs % 15.0 20.7 19.0 19.8 1 17.2 per cent when adjusted for nonrecurring items.
