Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Marketplace overview We operate in large fragmentedmarkets with stronggrowth characteristics The USA continues to be our largest market with the greatest opportunities for growth.
The market for plumbing and heating distribution has strong growth characteristics and is highly fragmented with no market dominated by anysingledistributor.
In each market we operate with leading market positions and significant scale.
Market characteristics and opportunities Customers require Customers needs are local Large supplier base Clear need for distributors The customer base is fragmented.
Ferguson distributes the products a basket of goods inthe supply chain Professional contractors typically operate ofapproximately 44,000 suppliers Ferguson serves approximately one Distributors including Ferguson within about 20 miles of a local branch acrossthe world.
million customers across the Group and bridgethe gap between a fragmented and may visit it several times per week.
customers typically require a basketof supplier base and the large and In addition to visiting branches, they goods.
In the USA the average basket geographically dispersed professional are now using digital channels which size is five products valued at circa $600.
Highly fragmented industry Benets of scale Strong organic Bolt-on M&A with no market dominated Due to scale benets, market leaders growth opportunities opportunities can perform better through the Market characteristics Ferguson has a large acquisition byasingle player economic cycle and customers have support long-termorganic target database to support continued Our markets are typically highly quicker access to products.
fragmented, with few large playersinthe industry.
What is driving market growth?
Population growth Housing transactions Consumer condenc d e Population growth of more than 6 per cent Existing single family home sales continue In the USA, consumer confidence in July 2017 is expected in the USA in the next decade.
togrowwhile remaining signicantly below hit a 16year high.
There is a strong correlation theprevious peak.
between consumer confidence and levels Source: United Nations Department of of activities in our markets.
Source: National Association of Realtors.
Ageing housing stock Increased comfort levelsinhomes Disposable income 41 years 80% No.
1 The median age of homes in the USA is of new homes in the USA have two or The USA has the highest levels of disposable 41 years.
There is high demand for repairs, more bathrooms.
There is a trend towards income perhousehold in the OECD.
maintenance and improvement in the large increasinglevelsof comfort in homes.
Source: Organisation for Economic installed base of existing homes.
Source: US Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
