Group Chief Executives review Continued strategic development John Martin I am pleased to report a good financial performance in 2016 17 Group Chief with all of our ongoing businesses ahead of last year and a particularly Executive pleasing result in the USA where we achieved good trading profit growth.
We also made rapid progress with our strategic development focusing more of our resources on the USA to accelerate profitable growth.
Were continuing to work hard to improve returns in the international businesses, particularly in the UK, and  announced disposal of our Nordic business.
Statutory profit before tax of 1,180 million Our first priority is to ensure that we Whats been the highlight 2015 16: 675 million is after exceptional capitalise on this opportunity.
gains from disposals and losses from that doesnt mean our international I began my first year as CEO with impairments and restructuring costs.
Whilst two months visiting our operations Group revenue they are smaller, they make an important To read more about our financial across the Group and listening to our was 6.0 per cent contribution to the Group.
They do not performance see pages 26 to 33 and associates.
Their enthusiasm for serving ahead of detract from our focus and we will continue our customers to the highest standards last year on 38to 41. to develop and invest inthem too.
and furthering our strategic objectives a like-for-like is extremely motivating.
Their passion basis at Why did you change The Group will present for our business and relentless focus to 14,878 million thename of the Group its2017 18 financial improve it makes the Group what it is toFerguson?
today: the largest and most successful The majority of our associates work distributor of plumbing and heating How will shareholders in the USA, which also serves nearly products in the world.
800,000 customers so it made sense to atestament totheir commitment.
The vast majority of our mix of trading change and align the name of the Group profit is generated in the USA so it makes with our largest operation.
The name How did the Group perform sense to report our financial results in change will help us continue to raise this year?
Doing so will reduce volatility our prole in the USA and establish the in our results in terms of the translational Ongoing revenue of 14,878 million was strongest connection possible between impact of foreign exchange and our 22.5 per cent ahead of last year 2015 16: our stakeholders and our market leading results will better reect the underlying 12,146 million and 6.0 per cent ahead brand there.
We will on a like-for-like basis.
Our gross also give shareholders a choice between margins were 40 basis points ahead Will the Group eventually receiving ordinary dividends inUS of last year as we continue to focus operate exclusively in dollars or in pounds sterling which they on a better mix of higher value-added theUSA?
willbe able to do from April next year.
products and services and improving The allocation of capital and other our purchasing terms.
The Groups resources to those businesses capable operating expenses were 10.1 per cent Turning to strategy, last year of generating the best returns for higher at constant exchange rates which you set out three priorities.
shareholders is an important principle.
How would you summarise Funding growth and investment in the Ongoing trading profit was 24.8 per your progress on each?
USA will continue to be our highest cent ahead of last year at 1,032 million Priority one generate the best priority because we generate the best 2015 16: 827 million which included profitable growth in the USA.
returns for shareholders in this market.
a 122 million benefit from foreign The plumbing and heating market in the The business in the USA had a good exchange movements.
year especially when you consider the USA is a huge opportunity for us: it is a large, attractive and fragmented market headwinds we faced in the first half of the year from commodity price deation with excellent growth prospects.
Like-for-like revenue growth and growth at constant exchange rates are APMs, see note 2 on pages 91 and 92 for further information.
16 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Drivers of profitable growth Fullling Attractive Excellent customer wants growth execution opportunities Our associates responded positively Operating model and we generated stronger growth Engaged Organic and e-commerce associates expansion in the second half with the return of development modest price ination and a recovery Well trained, highly engaged We want to accelerate We need to ensure that our in industrial end-markets.
As we start associates deliver excellent profitable growth through operating model is agile the new financial year were generating customer service.
A relentless above market revenue andexible so it can adapt good growth in all of our end-markets focus in this area drives growth and targeted branch to changing customer needs and the regional picture of growth across customer loyalty.
andthat we are able to ex our the USA is encouraging.
At the same cost base when required.
time as accelerating revenue growth Increasingly our customers Excellent Bolt-on were continuing to expand our gross want to deal with us online and service ethic acquisitions margins through driving benets of scale we must ensure we have the in areas such as sourcing, increasing Our aim is to provide the We complement our organic leading e-commerce platform own label sales and better pricing best customer service in the growth strategy with bolt-on in each market in our industry.
Were also continuing to invest industry, consistently across acquisitions which are rapidly in future growth by developing more branches and regions.
integrated into our network to Pricing efficient operating models including deliver attractive returns.
discipline world-class e-commerce platforms, Strong sales building our brands and investing in We will work constantly to culture Adjacent adjacent businesses such as Facilities understand our customers opportunities Supply.
So overall, we feel that we We will continue to drive needs more accurately and have made good progress in driving a strong sales culture.
We will utilise our existing structure our pricing to be fair, profitable growth.
When ourassociates are knowledge, skills and consistent and transparent.
proud and confident about infrastructure to capitalise Priority two execute UK turnaround our services, and have the onnew market opportunities.
Own label best tools, knowledge and For example Facilities Supply Were about a year into the penetration data to support them, we will and our B2C e-commerce implementation of our transformation achieve the strongest results.
We will systematically plan in the UK and we expect that it They engage with existing build upon and extend our willtake a further two years to complete andnew customers to make portfolioof private label brands soits still early days.
Weve made good sure we are front of mind when whichin 2016 17 represented progress this year and we are carefully it comes to bids for work.
implementing the key initiatives to We have an opportunity to ensure we minimise disruption to our offer a wider range of own label customers while continuing to execute products to our customers, at pace.
some of which attract higher Milestones next year include continuing gross margins.
the reconguration of the branch network, logistics and supply chain, Related to the above drivers of profitable growth simplication of the product range and Key performance indicators: Principal risks: the roll out of sign on glass technology.
Pages 26 and 27 Pages 42 to 49 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Group Chief Executives review continued Once weve delivered the plan we are our customer relationship management This year we have made steady progress confident we will have built a better, CRM platforms, master data and order on our sustainability programme 20% more profitable business by simplifying management systems this year.
and further detail can be seen in the E-commerce our customer propositions, lowering Resource and Relationships section On the logistics and supply chain side we now accounts for the cost base and optimising the supply pages 22 to 25 and in the Sustainability added new market distribution centres 20 per cent of chain and branch network.
You can read section pages 34 to 37.
However, I am in Euless, Texas and San Francisco, Group revenue in more detail about the transformation disappointed with the deterioration in California this year and we have plans at3 billion plan in the UK operating review on our injury and lost workday rates.
We are continuing page 32. personally engaged with health and to roll out our university training courses safety specialists from our businesses to Priority three review Nordic in the USA to ensure we have the best ensure that we consider and act on their operational strategy and restore the trained associates in the industry which views for best practices and opportunities business to profitable growth.
we believe is key to delivering world for improvement.
There is also regular class customer service see page 22 We concluded the review of Nordic review of health and safety performance formore information.
operating strategy in March 2017, with our business leaders.
We have put in identifying a clear and executable plan to Throughout this Annual Report we have place actions to address this deterioration return the business to profitable growth.
also outlined how our strategy drives and all businesses are committed to However, there are few synergies with our thinking in all aspects of how we do improving our performance in this area.
the rest of the Groups plumbing and business from how the Board operates heating activities and we have initiated and corporate governance to KPIs, What is your outlook for a process to exit our building materials principal risks and sustainability.
business in the region which is on track.
US markets continue to be favourable, In August 2017 we completed the sale What changes have you in particular residential and commercial ofSilvan, the Danish DIY chain.
made in your senior team markets where we generate the majority thisyear?
Group organic revenue Thinking about the strategy growth in the new financial year has Id like to express my own thanks in in more detail you also been about 6 per cent.
Our business addition to the Chairmans comments in talkedlast year about the is performing well, we have a strong recognising the significant contributions importance of achieving balance sheet to support our plans of Frank Roach and Dave Keltner who excellent execution in some and the Board continues to look to the retired this year.
Both were fundamental key areas.
How are you medium-term with confidence.
to the strong growth and excellent making progress here?
returns shareholders have enjoyed We remain excited about the significant from the business in the USA over many This year we have further rened our structural growth opportunities in our years.
Id like to wish them both well in drivers of profitable growth see page 17 markets and the potential for revenue their retirement.
which set out how we will win in our local growth, margin improvement, and markets, outperform our competitors attractive returns.
Its great to have Mike Powell on board and drive strong financial results.
as our Group CFO and Kevin Murphy Our businesses are not homogeneous as the CEO of the USA.
They are What is your message to and they require customised strategies already making a considerable impact.
and each of our business units Elsewhere in the senior team in the It is our associates who make the are prioritising them appropriately, USA we have promoted Bill Brundage difference for our customers and depending on their local market and to CFO and Alex Hutcherson to COO.
ultimately deliver value to our shareholders.
Kevin Fancey has recently joined the The strong performance of the Group business as President of Canada.
Highlights this year include excellent this year is attributable to them.
I would Im delighted that a majority of these growth in our e-commerce businesses like to thank each and every one of positions have been lled through which now generates 20 per cent of our associates for their dedication, internal succession, recognising the Group revenue.
We continue to see enthusiasm and hard work that are the strong pipeline of talent developed over e-commerce as an efficient way to meet key reasons for our continued success.
many years within our core operations.
the needs of our customers using the current branch and logistics network without adding extra branch capacity.
How are you building John Martin We are gaining momentum in the Group Chief Executive abetterbusiness?
acceleration of own label in our businesses and in the USA it now We established our Better Business represents 6.9 per cent of overall sustainability programme see pages revenues 2015 16: 5.8 per cent.
We 34 and 35 following consultation with are continuing to invest in our operating shareholders two years ago and we model, including further investment in strive to make these issues an integral The increase or decrease in revenue excluding part of how we do business.
the effect of currency exchange, acquisitions and disposals and trading days.
18 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
