Report from the CEO Syncona Investment Management Limited Our objective is to deliver superior shareholder returns by maximising the value available from the delivery of transformational treatments to patients.
This has been a transformative year for we aim to have a focused portfolio of very our business.
Since being founded in 2012, high quality businesses in areas where Syncona has taken a long-term view, we can bring to bear our unique expertise.
creating and working alongside innovative To date, this has driven our position of life science companies with the ambition of strength in gene therapy, cell therapy and taking their products to market.
In doing so advanced diagnostics.
Our overriding aim we have sought to access the significant is that each of our portfolio companies is value creation achievable by backing our provided with the best possible chance of investments to the point of successful long-term success because of Synconas commercialisation.
We believe this hands-on approach creates greater value, both at the In December 2016 the combination of point of delivering products to market and Syncona Partners with BACIT Limited throughout the development cycle.
under a new structure represented a significant move, bringing together two Secondly, we have a business model market leaders within their respective consistent with the achievement of fields.
Together, the combination offered our strategy.
the prospect of delivering a step change Our combination with BACIT provides in the achievement of both Synconas a deep pool of long-term capital which and BACITs original visions.
is productively deployed in a wide range As a combined business our objective is of asset classes by our leading funds to deliver superior shareholder returns by investment team, delivering attractive Martin Murphy maximising the value available from the returns to shareholders on an Chief Executive Officer, delivery of transformational treatments to ongoing basis.
Syncona Investment patients, targeting a 15 per cent net IRR Management Limited This innovative structure means we are return through the cycle.
We do this by not a forced seller of any of our businesses employing a disciplined approach to as we have the depth of capital to support capital allocation and executing a focused them over the long term.
When we invest and selective investment strategy, enabling on day one, we know we have the ability, us to build global leaders in healthcare.
should we choose, to invest through the A differentiated model cycle and maximise the upside.
There are two key characteristics that Importantly, we are under no pressure to we believe differentiate Syncona.
This enables us to wait for We have a current Firstly, we are focused on building the right, highest quality opportunities from businesses with the ambition of any source and at any stage, whether that portfolio of seven high delivering products to market.
is further investment in our existing portfolio quality life science businesses Furthermore, by aiming to maintain or investment in new opportunities.
significant stakes in these which have progressed positively An exceptional team businesses all the way to market The vision we have set out requires a this year and each has a clear and by instilling a deep strong and expert team.
Our life science partnership approach from path for development team members have advanced scientific the outset, we can build qualifications and an established track and value creation.
globally competitive companies record of investing in and commercialising capable of long-term success.
In our funds business, We set our portfolio companies we have an excellent and highly Martin Murphy up to compete on a world stage, experienced team who have strong CEO, Syncona Investment putting in place a long-term commercial relationships with some of the worlds Management Limited strategy and leading management teams.
We continue to take a hands-on role throughout their development, providing financial, operational, commercial and scientific input as they mature.
As a result, Syncona Limited 16 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report A promising outlook This is an exceptional time to be investing Looking forward 12.4% in and building innovative life science Life science total return companies.
The quality and ambition of the Build a focused portfolio of up to since acquisition.
individuals and ideas we see exceed those 20investments in the best witnessed historically.
This is a positive lifescience opportunities.
sign for our industry and, more importantly, for patients seeking transformational new Build global leaders in 226.6m therapies and diagnostic approaches.
We have a current portfolio of seven high Deliver at least 3-5 successful, quality life science businesses which have sustainable, marketed-product A successful year for our progressed positively this year and each companies.
life science companies has a clear path for value creation.
Next There was significant momentum in our Deliver transformational treatments year we expect to see Blue Earth begin life science portfolio companies this year to patients.
sales of Axumin in Europe and continue as they achieved a number of milestones its positive commercial trajectory in the Deliver superior returns and progressed positively towards their United States.
We also expect Nightstar toshareholders.
to commence a pivotal clinical trial in It was very exciting to see Blue Earth choroideremia, Autolus to enter clinical Diagnostics, a molecular imaging trials for three programmes, and to see We are looking forward to the first full year diagnostics business which we set up in our four developing portfolio companies as a combined business.
We believe that 2014 as a spin out from GE Healthcare, deliver further progress.
our track record, expertise, scale, capital become the first Syncona-founded and long-term view leave us well positioned We continue to see a strong pipeline of company to reach on market status, to achieve our ambition: to build global new investment opportunities and look securing approval for its product Axumin in leaders in life science and deliver forward to being able to add to our the United States.
Blue Earth commenced transformational treatments to patients.
New investment sales of Axumin in August 2016.
We are activity will be driven by the quality of the very pleased with how the initial launch opportunities and our current expectation period has progressed and optimistic is that we will invest between approximately about the opportunities for the business 75 million 150 million in new and going forward.
Blue Earth also secured existing life science investments this a positive opinion from the Committee financial year.
Martin Murphy for Medicinal Products for Human Use Chief Executive Officer, recommending Axumin for approval in I would like to acknowledge the BACIT Syncona Investment Europe in March.
This was followed post team who have embraced our team and Management Limited year end with formal European Medicines business this year.
We are looking forward Agency approval in May.
to working with them in the years to come.
5 July 2017 I would also like to thank the Wellcome Nightstar, our gene therapy company for Trust and Cancer Research UK, our inherited retinal dystrophies, also made partners in the December transaction, significant progress this year, progressing shareholders in the new vehicle and two its Phase II clinical trials in its lead of the premium funders in the life science programme of late stage choroideremia research space.
Syncona would not exist and commencing a Phase I II clinical trial without their vision and ongoing support.
Finally, I would like to thank the Syncona We also saw very strong progression shareholders for their support this year towards clinical studies in our portfolio as we begin the evolution of our business.
companies Autolus and Freeline, and worked to assemble a team to launch our portfolio company Gyroscope.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 17
