Strategic report|Chief Executive's review Chief Executives review Our actions have resulted in a strong We have made considerable progress over the performance for the year, with past year executing against our strategy and this organic revenue growth of 5%, total is translating into good financial and growth of 6% and growth at actual operating results.
We delivered foreign exchange rates of 4%.
We have expanded margins, which have total revenue growth of 6% at constant increased to 27.7%, up by 60 basis currency, organic revenue growth of 5%, points at actual rates and up 30 basis consistent with our mid single-digit points at constant exchange rates, to target range, and we are well placed deliver Benchmark EBIT growth of 7% at constant exchange rates all on an to capture further opportunities to ongoing activities basis : sustain momentum.
Before the restatement for CCM, Group organic revenue growth was Brian Cassin, Chief Executive Officer 4% for the year and the EBIT margin was flat at constant currency, in line with our previous guidance.
Highlights 2017 Regional highlights North America We delivered a solid performance in North America, with total revenue growth % % m of 7% and organic revenue growth of 5%, 5 27.7 US$600 reflecting strength in B2B partially offset Organic revenue Benchmark EBIT Share repurchase by the transition we are undertaking in growth margin, up 60 bps programme for 2018 Consumer Services.
We saw good progress across our B2B activities, reflecting generally stable conditions for consumer and business lending as well as a good reception by clients for some of our newly introduced services.
Highlights this year include: This gives us a large and fastThese include new propositions which growing audience of consumers We made strong progress against our help lenders to target and acquire to engage with our new credit and five strategic priorities: customers more efficiently in the digital identity offers.
sphere: new decisioning services which Our portfolio is sharper and more We have increased investment in greatly accelerate the speed at which focused following the agreed sale new sources of data, advanced risk and fraud prevention analysis can of CCM and we are driving growth analytics and decisioning products be conducted: and we are introducing from the strong synergies that and in innovative new solutions in additional functionality to help our clients exist across our portfolio.
order to address significant market address the credit needs of a broader Our business-to-business 'B2B' opportunities and we enter 2018 spectrum of consumers and businesses.
activities performed well, with with a range of new products to strong organic revenue growth sustain momentum.
Our strategy to expand in newer market across Credit Services, Decision We returned US$734m in total to segments continues to produce results, Analytics and Marketing Services.
shareholders through dividends with strong growth in health fuelled by Transformation of Consumer and net share repurchases, and new deals with healthcare providers and Services is gathering pace.
We now have announced a US$600m we are securing further growth from have millions of consumers signed repurchase programme to be existing clients through cross-selling.
up for free membership offers.
For the year as a whole we delivered further growth in automotive, with some tightening of credit standards evident towards the latter part of the year.
26 Strategic report|Chief Executive's review Revenue and Benchmark EBIT by region, Benchmark EBIT margin 1 2 2 2017 2016 Total growth Organic growth US$m US$m % % Revenue North America 2,457 2,294 7 5 Latin America 730 631 9 9 UK and Ireland 807 924 1 1 EMEA Asia Pacific 341 315 9 9 Total ongoing activities 4,335 4,164 6 5 Revenue exited business activities 73 Total 4,335 4,237 Benchmark EBIT by region North America 781 704 11 Latin America 251 226 3 UK and Ireland 246 297 4 EMEA Asia Pacific 3 15 47 Sub-total 1,275 1,212 7 Central Activities central corporate costs 76 82 n a Benchmark EBIT from ongoing activities 1,199 1,130 7 EBIT exited business activities 15 n a Total Benchmark EBIT 1,199 1,145 6 Benchmark EBIT margin ongoing activities 27.7% 27.1% 1 2016 restated see Note 3 to the Group financial statements for further information.
3 Exited business activities comprise businesses divested during 2016 in North America, UK and Ireland, and EMEA Asia Pacific.
See the Financial review for analysis of revenue, Benchmark EBIT and Benchmark EBIT margin by business segment and note 7 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures.
In Consumer Services, we are growing We are also starting to scale a substantial audience of consumers by LendingWorks, by adding more lenders, offering free access to credit monitoring more loan and card offers and new It has been a good and scores.
Free memberships reached features to help consumers easily year for Experian.
9 million at the end of the year, out compare prices for credit offers.
While We have made of a total of approximately 11 million organic revenue declined modestly as a members, and up from 3 million free whole, referral fees have started to grow considerable members in the previous year.
We have rapidly from a small base.
progress strategically, recently launched a major marketing operationally and campaign to introduce a new premium financially.
identity protection service called IdentityWorks, which is based on the CSIdentity CSID platform we acquired earlier in the year.
27 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories DATA AND ANALYTICS Helping big companies by getting them to act like small ones Im pretty excited about this project, and not just because Ive seen the DataLab being built from scratch over the last two years.
But because now our experts work there side by side with Santanders experts, answering todays complex data questions.
When I first spoke to Alexandre from We needed a way to help this big bank act The results were getting are great, Santander, he told me he wanted to like a start-up, so it could try new things even though were only halfway through.
understand what new technologies, new before deciding whether to use them.
Alexandres happy hell be able to explain unstructured data, and new algorithms So thats what we did.
We invited the to Santanders leaders how unstructured like machine learning can do to help Santander experts in, and we got to work.
data and machine learning can transform his bank reduce debt, and model risk.
Thats exactly We have a DataLab in So Paulo.
Its a Basically, he wanted to prepare the bank what he wanted to do.
And thats what gives us the freedom to Its a great opportunity for Experian But its tricky for a huge bank to test take risks, to test big data technology, its a real collaboration, because we out new things.
They have a very tight algorithms, new business models want to answer these questions, too.
commitment to deliver results, especially and so on.
Were sharing expertise but were also when it comes to managing customers growing our own its a win-win project, So were there everyday with Juliano, debt portfolios.
The margin for error is its like were all one team.
Alexandre and Eduardo business, very, very thin.
Its kind of the opposite for technical and modelling experts from Marcelo Pimenta start-ups and FinTechs, who are always Santander.
And were working fast, like a Head of Latin America DataLabs, taking risks by trying new things.
Startstart-up, with our 10-10-10 approach: 10 Serasa Experian ups can offer customers a more friendly hours to set up the team, 10 days to work way to evaluate credit or to get financial on the problem, and 10 weeks to deliver services.
And of course start-ups can get a product.
these things to the market first.
We have a DataLab in So Paulo.
28 Strategic report|Chief Executive's review Chief Executives review continued Latin America UK and Ireland EMEA Asia Pacific We delivered another year of strong In the UK and Ireland, organic revenue EMEA Asia Pacific performed strongly, progress in Latin America, with organic increased 1%, reflecting a robust delivering organic growth of 9%.
The performance performance in B2B which offset a Strategically we have placed considerable of our business in Brazil has been decline in direct-to-consumer.
emphasis on tightening the focus of our outstanding, delivering good growth The breadth of our offer in B2B is a activities.
Having divested a number of despite a very difficult market.
At major advantage, expanding our position businesses over the past two years we the same time we have undertaken a within our traditional client base in are now concentrated on fewer scalable significant programme of investment in financial services and opening up new markets.
This more focused approach Brazil, to position ourselves for economic opportunities for growth in areas such is yielding good results and we secured recovery by building on our leadership as energy, price comparison, wealth many significant wins during the year, position in B2B while establishing new and pensions and financial technology ending the year with good momentum services for consumers.
Growth in the services FinTech.
During the year we across both EMEA and Asia Pacific.
year was driven by a number of factors, introduced services which help lenders to This has given rise to strong revenue including counter-cyclical products pre-qualify consumers for credit, credit growth and significant progress towards such as delinquency notifications, software which assists with account profitability, even as we continue to expansion of our position with a number opening and customer management and invest to secure longer term opportunities of the largest Brazilian banks and the with new fraud prevention products.
in markets such as India and South introduction of additional services for We also secured our first client wins for East Asia.
CrossCore, our new fraud detection and We also launched free services to help prevention platform.
We benefited from consumers better manage their credit, strong take up of new digital marketing including the Serasa Score which helps tools which use data and analytics to help to educate consumers about the benefits clients advertise more effectively across of positive data and improve consumer social media and other digital platforms.
We took a number of important steps Regulatory changes are being discussed during the year to reposition Consumer in Brazil which could accelerate the Services.
We are using the power of adoption of positive data by dropping the the Experian brand to drive consumer requirement for consumers to opt in and interest and engagement in our free instead allowing consumers to opt out of score offer.
We have attracted 1.7 the positive data collection process.
million free customers since launch We believe this would benefit Brazilian which is helping to drive awareness consumers and would provide new and usage of CreditMatcher, our price opportunities for better credit risk comparisonservice.
assessment through more widespread use of data.
In anticipation of this Having initially launched CreditMatcher, regulatory change, we are accelerating which helps consumers to compare development of products which credit card offers, we have recently incorporate positive data.
introduced an energy switching service as an extension to our offer.
Early signs are encouraging, although the scale of our new offers is not yet sufficient to offset declines in our traditional credit monitoring subscription services and we expect this part of our business to decline during the coming year, with the rate of decline expected to moderate somewhat in the second half.
29 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories FINANCIAL ACCESS Bringing peoples businesses together to help them flourish Ive been building a platform that brings buyers and suppliers together, and I never thought itd give me so many opportunities to help make peoples lives easier and better.
I remember visiting a drinks company and finances, and how they treat the Afterwards, I heard from some of the and meeting their finance team.
I asked, environment and other issues.
They said they When it comes to your suppliers, what businesses can find other businesses really liked the webinar its helped kinds of difficulties do you have?.
them improve their company, and do told me about the delivery company they betterbusiness.
We launched the platform and thats relied on to get their drinks to the shops.
when I got another opportunity to help.
To have the opportunity to design One day the delivery company turned A supplier from a retail company called something to help companies flourish around and said they were bankrupt.
They said Alex, I have a problem.
Ive is a great feeling for me.
Now theyre They couldnt deliver anymore.
The seen my report and it shows I have a lot telling us what they want next, and thats drinks company was stuck.
They said if of debt that I didnt know I had.
theyd known the delivery company was will want to buy from me.
in such trouble, they could have helped Alexandre Reis them or found a new supplier.
So what we did was create a 15-day Product Manager, window vendors have before sending Serasa Experian My colleagues and I visited lots of their reports to buyers.
And in that time, companies, from construction to we can help them clear their debt.
At the manufacturing, from retailers to beginning of March, we actually ran a big wholesalers, to hear their problems.
webinar workshop around 300 people We used what they told us to create this from different companies tuned in.
It gives buyers talked them through how to get a better and suppliers really comprehensive credit score, how to find new buyers on reports on the companies they want 300 the platform, and what buyers look for to do business with.
At the beginning of are information on companies credit March, we actually ran a big webinar workshop around 300 people tuned in.
30 Strategic report|Chief Executive's review Chief Executives review continued The combination of our strategic Strategy update Return on capital employed priorities and the strength of our Having successfully executed on many Return on capital employed for the business foundations will help us to aspects of our strategy, our portfolio year was 15.5% 2016: 15.4%.
This realise our ambition to deliver premium is stronger and is growing faster with represented organic improvement of earnings growth and to deliver further improved profitability.
As we look ahead, 80 basis points, offset by a 50 basis value to all our stakeholders.
we are evolving our focus in order to point headwind from acquisitions and a capture new opportunities.
20 basis point headwind due to foreign Benchmark EBIT margin exchange and other factors.
We continue to deliver growth in We are aligning our strategy ever profitability alongside organic investment Dividend more closely to emerging client needs and our Benchmark EBIT margin from to deliver better digital customer We are announcing a second interim ongoing activities was 27.7%, up 60 basis experiences, to manage risks as dividend of 28.5 US cents per share, up points for the year, of which 30 basis effectively as possible and to protect 4% on the prior year to bring the total for points was attributable to a positive against fraud, while also helping 2017 to 41.5 US cents per share, also up foreign exchange translation.
consumers to protect and manage their 4% on the prior year.
This dividend will be financial lives.
These needs mean our paid on 21 July 2017 to shareholders on Cash generation and uses of cash customers seek new ways to combine, the register at the close of business on We have delivered another strong year integrate and analyse data, which plays 23 June 2017.
We also expect to execute of cash generation, with Benchmark to Experian's strengths.
share repurchases of US$600m in the EBIT conversion into Benchmark forthcoming year.
As part of our strategy we are: operating cash flow of 96%.
Consistent with our capital allocation strategy, broadening and deepening our data use of cash was balanced between assets through a range of data organic investment, acquisitions and investments and partnerships: returns to shareholders.
Benchmark investing to extend our lead in operating cash flow was US$1,149m, enhanced analytics and advanced with US$393m allocated to net organic decisioning technologies to greatly capital investment.
Acquisitions and enhance client experiences by investments represented US$432m, providing quicker, more frictionless net share repurchases amounted to decision making: US$353m and equity dividends were US$381m.
transforming our relationships with consumers by enhancing the user We ended the year with Net debt of experience and introducing new offers US$3,173m, up US$150m, representing with a greater choice of products 2.1 times Benchmark EBITDA.
This is which fit their individual needs: at the lower end of our target leverage accelerating the rate and the pace at range of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
which we innovate, and will plan to introduce a wide range of new and enhanced products over the coming 1218 months: continuing to add scale in selected verticals and targeted geographies: and continuing to invest in the foundations of our business including agile technology, client service excellence, our brand, talent and our One Experian approach.
