14 15 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Process plant at Sukari Gold Mine Andrew Pardey Chief executive officer We successfully delivered against our strategic objectives, generating significant cash flow and Underground development delivering exploration led growth.
drive During 2017, Centamin successfully The open pit delivered a record electrowinning cell: an automated Medium term organic growth at Sukari West African developments Doropo and the ABC Project have the delivered against our strategic 70.9Mt of material mined, a 14% control monitoring system that aims to is likely to be driven by increased potential to develop further as drilling The resource at our Doropo Project in objectives to generate significant cash increase on 2016, and the processing increase the flotation mass pull: underground production levels, continues and form part of the strong Cte dIvoire has been increased from flow, maintain substantial stakeholder plant achieved record throughput of reducing the CIL tailings losses with displacing lowergrade open pit ore. base for Centamins exploration and the maiden resource announced in returns, deliver exploration led growth 12.0Mt, up 4% on 2016.
Both mining improved carbon management and In particular, the Cleopatra exploration development pipeline including January 2017 to 1.3Moz contained and ensure ongoing commitment to and plant throughput volumes carbon monitoring techniques.
decline was advanced during the year Burkina Faso and the near mine gold indicated and 0.95Moz inferred.
represent the eighth successive year to establish drill platforms within targets at Sukari.
This resource is located with an area of Creating value through the drillbit 2 of growth.
Throughout 2017, ongoing Sukari to test the contact zone at the 25km and within a comfortable haul In its eighth year of commercial Strengthening Centamin has an excellent exploration improvements to the operation, northern end of the porphyry for from a potential central processing production, Sukari enjoyed another established partnerships track record and 2017 was no different.
utilisation and availability of our fixed similar mineralisation to that currently facility.
strong year, producing Our updated mineral reserve and Last year marked 22 years in assets have been a key driver in being mined at Amun and Ptah.
Initial 544,658 ounces, exceeding our resource statement of total reserves of The Doropo resource is located within partnership under our Concession achieving these milestones.
For drill results confirmed the presence of guidance of 540,000 ounces.
Integral 8.0Moz and measured and indicated a granite domain that had previously Agreement with the Arab Republic of example, renewed operator training prospective structures within the to this success are our people.
Safety resources of 11.7Moz, as at 30 June been dismissed as not being Egypt.
Last year was also the first full has improved productivity of the porphyry which may be used to target is a critical area of Centamins 2017, reiterated the long term prospective for significant gold year profit share payout to the loading fleet.
Furthermore, proactive, future development of the decline and performance and our aim is to ensure sustainability of the Sukari open pit mineralisation.
The team in Cte government under our profit share preventative maintenance and systems the Company reported encouraging that every person returns safe at the and the further expansion dIvoire has successfully proved its arrangement.
The smooth transition implementation to improve efficiency results from the contact zone between end of each shift.
Continued onsite opportunities for the highgrade ability to define a resource area that is from US$1.1 billion project cost across procurement warehousing and the porphyry and the surrounding health and safety development has underground operations.
still open and with further recovery in late 2016 to this years first plant and equipment maintenance metasedimentary rock.
Drilling resulted in a circa 4% reduction in lost geochemical anomalies in the area full year US$112 million profit share throughout 2016 and 2017 has continues and will, over the course of Sukari underground drilling resulted time injury frequency rate to 0.26. that still need to be drill tested for payout totalling circa US$159 million resulted in improved mining 2018, guide future development plans in a 51% increase in underground We continue to take the appropriate further prospective gold paid to date, is testament to the productivity throughout the year.
Even though Cleopatra reserves to 0.8Moz and a 74% measures in striving to achieve a mineralisation.
Test work has strength of our established is an exploration project, the decline increase in reserve tonnes to 4.7Mt zeroharm workplace.
The increase in tonnes through the continued to confirm that the gold relationship with the Egyptian has been built to the same Underground exploration at Amun plant slightly impaired metallurgical from this area can be extracted using government and our excellent team specification as Amun and Ptah with Driving productivity and Ptah was very successful during recoveries, which were 88.1%, conventional CIL or heap leaching and framework in place in Alexandria potential capacity of around 1Mtpa of This year marked another great year 2017, identifying potential highgrade marginally below budget.
Whilst undertaking this work and Cairo, led by Youssef ElRaghy, additional underground ore, of operational milestones, as a result zones at Horus and demonstrating the optimisation on improving recoveries in Doropo, the team has also been the General Manager of Egyptian dependent on the results of the of our uncompromised commitment prospectivity of the Osiris and Bast is underway.
Projects undertaken very active on the ABC Project area on Operations.
to continuous improvements to sectors within the Amun zone and the include the installation of VisioFroth: the west side of Cte dIvoire.
gap between Anum and Ptah the commissioning of a second acid Although at an early stage in the respectively.
wash column: an expansion of the exploration pipeline, initial results from elution circuit by installing a third first pass drilling have confirmed a elution column with supporting mineralised corridor of over 12km in infrastructure and an extra strike length.
16 17 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT continued As with any partnership, nurturing that With the installation of the fourth Underground exploration and Finally, I would like to thank my I would also like to thank our board of relationship is paramount to its secondary crusher, we are targeting development remains the key catalyst colleagues for their hard work and directors for their continued support success.
Centamin maintains regular record processing plant throughput of in near term organic production contribution towards delivering and guidance, in particular our executive and senior management 12.3Mt.
The mine plan forecasts a growth.
Sukari exploration spend of another solid performance.
Operating chairman, Josef ElRaghy, who has contact with respective government relatively balanced quarteronquarter over US$20 million is anticipated for within a cyclical sector, in a fast announced his intention to retire at the and industry partners, establishing production profile throughout the 2018, with four rigs allocated to focus changing world, Centamin has end of 2018.
As CEO and chairman open lines of communication year.
The underground is scheduled to on underground reserve replacement established an impressive track record over the past 15 years, Josef has built throughout our Finance, Operations mine an increased 1.3Mt ore at a and resource expansion drilling as the of adapting, mitigating risks where a remarkable gold company.
Centamin and incountry Corporate Affairs grade of 7.2g t: comprising a 65:35 orebody remains open in multiple appropriate, and delivering strong is in a very strong financial and departments.
We would like to thank split between stoping and directions.
This resilience in our business operational position and we respect our supportive stakeholders, and we development ore, respectively.
development will include the model is testament to the strength of that this year is the right time for Josef look forward to the long term The improvement in total tonnes from exploration decline at Cleopatra to the core values your Company is built to hand over the reins to a successor relationship of substantial profit share underground will be driven by access the highgrade western contact upon and the experience and as we enter the next stage of growth resulting from the operation and increased stoping activities made of the porphyry as well as expanding expertise of the people within it.
growth of our world class asset.
possible by our focus on ensuring decline development at Amun and development is well advanced.
Open Ptah, to access the Horus, Bast and Andrew Pardey The year ahead pit mining activities will be focused on Osiris zones, which should drive our Chief executive officer We look forward to delivering solid Stage 4A of the north wall.
This is the medium term growth strategy.
growth in 2018 with gold production predominant source of ore from the 31 January 2018 guidance of 580,000 ounces, a 6% open pit over the next five years.
The increase over 2017 production, at a open pit is scheduled to move 70.5Mt lower allin sustaining cost of of material and mine 17.7Mt ore at an US$770 oz.
Cash costs are expected overall grade of 0.70g t including to be US$555 oz, in line with 2017 dump leach and stockpile material, actuals, driven by increased with open pit feed grade in line with production offsetting expected higher open pit reserve grade.
fuel and reagent input costs.
