Chief Executive Officers review Our performance in 2017 is our strongest on record.
Glencores balance sheet has never been stronger and our investment case, underpinned by our leading marketing and industrial asset businesses, has never been better Going forward, those commodities where primary market balances are in deficit or trending towards deficit, such as zinc, copper, nickel and thermal coal should see positive price divergenceversus potentially oversupplied markets.
Delivering sector-leading returns for shareholders In 2017, Glencore outperformed all its UK-listed major diversified mining peers, with shares up 41%.
Our balance sheet is robust, and our investment case is increasingly compelling.
Financial performance was strong in2017, with Adjusted EBITDA of $14.8 billion, up 44% and net income attributable to equity holders increasing to $5.8billion, from $1.4billion in 2016, reflecting healthy commodity prices and the continued robust earnings contribution from our highly cash generative Marketing Capitalising on a strong and investment, by battery and and Industrial businesses.
operating environment automotive manufacturers and After an encouraging end to 2016, infrastructure players, adjusting Marketing resilient again which saw commodities recover progressively upwards.
This provides Marketing Adjusted EBIT was from cycle lows, positive momentum an additional dimension of future $3.0billion in 2017, 3% higher continued through 2017, resulting demand growth for a number of our than 2016, reflecting the benefits in prolonged outperformance of key commodities.
Early signals of of continued supportive market Glencores key commodities versus inflation and higher interest rates conditions, volume growth in key the broader markets.
Concerns of also bode well for commodities market segments and a positive end tightening financial conditions in as an assetclass.
to the year, eclipsing the $2.8billion China during the second quarter Chinese supply-side reform, aided by guidance provided during the proved to be short-lived, with consistent environmental policy and Investor Update in early December.
commodities rallying once again compliance, positively affected a through the second half of the year.
Metals & Minerals and Energy number of commodities during Products both delivered strong Strong economic performance 2017, including thermal coal, zinc contributions while Agricultural inboth major developing and andaluminium.
Products posted a resilient developed markets has underpinned performance when compared to supportive commodity demand many peers.
The electric vehicle proven its ability to generate upheaval continues to unfold, with consistently solid earnings with high the scale of market penetration cash conversion, taking into account its low fixed capital requirements.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 04 04 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Electric Vehicles a disruptive force underpinning our commodities Page 12 Looking ahead, while we maintain We recently commissioned an Creating long-term, our long-term Marketing Adjusted independent study to gauge the sustainable returns EBIT guidance range of $2.2 to potential incremental demand for shareholders $3.2billion, a continuation of recent for these commodities under the healthy marketing conditions would Electric Vehicles Initiative scenario suggest a 2018 performance in the of30 % electric vehicle market share Capitalising on the upper half of the range.
The findings suggest an strong economic additional 4.1Mt of copper, 1.1Mt performance in both Industrial margin expansion of nickel and 314kt of cobalt supply major developing and through higher prices and relentless will be required by 2030. developed markets that cost focus These potentially significant new underpins supportive Industrial Adjusted EBITDA of demand sources offer compelling commodity demand $11.5billion in 2017 was 60% fundamentals, particularly when conditions higher than 2016.
Our asset coupled with persistent portfolio continued to deliver overall supplychallenges.
competitive all-in unit costs which, despite some minor production Automaker investment in EVs: challenges during the year, allowed Well-positioned to $90 billion and counting the Company to capitalise on healthy supply into the likely The rate at which automotive and commodity prices and generate energy and mobility battery companies have scaled up higher Adjusted EBITDA mining evolution, including the electric vehicle investment plans margins of 38% and 41% respectively rapidly evolving electric speaks to our opportunity as a in our Metals and Energy operations.
vehicle story supplier of key metals.
Energy and mobility transformation Global automaker investments now forecast to unlock material new total more than $90 billion, with at sources of commodity demand least $19 billion attributed to the U. S. Commodity differentiation is $21 billion to China and $52billion increasingly important, and to Germany.
Volkswagen alone Anticipated strong Glencores commodity mix plans to spend $40 billion by 2030 production growth in isbecoming less dependent to build electrified versions of over copper 25% nickel 30% ondemand generated by 300 models.
Chinese automakers are and cobalt 133% over infrastructure related investment ramping up focus on the EV story, the next threeyears indevelopingmarkets.
while a number have announced investment partnerships with the Accelerating electric vehicle adoption likes of Ford, VW and General Motors.
requires an energy and mobility transformation that is forecast to Our resource base is well positioned unlock material new sources of to supply into this likely energy and Conviction to create demand for the enabling underlying mobility evolution, particularly given value through commodities including copper, our anticipated strong production partnerships, M&A and nickel and cobalt.
growth in copper 25% nickel 30% organic reinvestment and cobalt 133% over the next while maintaining three years.
a conservative balance sheet We discuss the electric vehicle theme in more detail on page 12.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 05 Chief Executive Officers review continued 2018 Shareholder Minimising our impact distribution on the environment $2.9bn 5% $0.20 share reduction in carbon emissions intensity by 2020 vs 2016 Conviction to create value Acquisition of majority of voting This payment comprises a fixed through partnerships, M&A class shares in Volcan, gaining $1 billion pay-out in respect of and organic reinvestment exposure access to a premier Marketing activities and a variable Over the past 15 months, in our zinc district and potential asset component of $1.9 billion, constant drive to create long-term marketing synergies representing c. 36% of Industrial value for shareholders, we continued asset free cash flow compared Acquisition of remaining 31% to leverage our trading and to our policy minimum of25%.
interest in Mutanda copper strategic relationships to source and structure both acquisitions Increased Rosneft oil offtake, Corporate governance and disposals, including: alongside equity partnership and sustainability structure with the QIA Our ambition to integrate Acquisition of 49% of Rio Tintos sustainability throughout our Hunter Valley Operations thermal Additionally, we have an attractive business remains a key strategic coal with Yancoal retaining 51%, suite of organic growth options across priority for the Group and reflects gaining access to sizeable high the portfolio.
Key existing projects our commitment to operate quality energy coal resources and neared completion in 2017, including transparently and responsibly.
marketing rights pending Katanga copper cobalt now in It also encompasses our desire to commissioning, Mopani copper Sale of 51% of non-U.
S. petroleum protect the wellbeing of our people, commissioning late 2018 and products storage and logistics our host communities and the Koniambo nickel, Line 2 in business to HNA sale of smaller natural environment, while sharing commissioning.
U. S. portion pending lasting benefits with the regions A suite of low-cost, low-risk where we work and society Creation of BaseCore Metals brownfield opportunities were as a whole.
alongside Ontario Teachers approved or progressed during Pension Plan, a growth vehicle Sadly, we recorded nine fatalities 2017, including Integrated Nickel for base metal streams, royalties at our operations in 2017.
Our goal Operations nickel, Zhairem zinc, and commercial opportunities remains zero fatalities and there is Katanga acid plant and cobalt circuit unrelenting focus on ensuring leading Sale of our African zinc assets debottlenecking copper cobalt, practice at all our operations.
to Trevali for mix of cash and Mutanda cobalt reclaim copper, shares, thereby accelerating the United Wambo Open Cut coal Progress during 2017 included the development of a mid-size zinc and Mt Owen extension coal.
publication of our commitment to growth vehicle with Glencore preventing the occurrence of Modern retaining 25% equity participation $2.9 billion shareholder distribution Slavery and human trafficking within and offtake agreements Consistent with new distribution our operations and supply chains, policy and reflecting strong cash the release of our 2016 Sustainability Acquisition of Chevrons South generation in 2017, we have declared report, as well as updated reports on African and Botswana mid downa distribution of $2.9 billion $0.20 per Payments to Governments and our stream oil business pending share in respect of 2017 cash flows, Climate Change Considerations paper.
to be paid in two equal instalments in 2018.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 06 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Strategic priorities Integration of Maintain a robust Focus on cost control sustainability and flexible and operational throughout balance sheet efficiencies our business Our strategy for a sustainable future Page 20 We continued to make progress Looking forward Creating long-term on meeting our group-wide carbon We look ahead with confidence, sustainable returns emission intensity reduction noting the synchronised global for shareholders target of at least 5% on 2016 levels economic growth, supportive by2020, committed to the Task commodity fundamentals and Force on Climate-related Financial the emerging electric vehicle Disclosures, and completed an story.
Webelieve our unrivalled $2.9bn distribution assessment of sites at a high risk positioning in Tier 1 commodities recommended in respect of water-related issues.
and Tier 1 assets will continue of 2017 cash flows, above to create compelling value the minimum policy We were delighted to appoint forshareholders.
threshold, given robust MsGillMarcus to the Board as an balance sheet progression Independent Non-Executive Director, with effect from 1 January 2018.
Gill was Governor of the South African Reserve Bank from November 2009 Ivan Glasenberg to November 2014, and her long Chief Executive Officer record of public service coupled 1 March 2018 with her finance experience, geoOur ambition to integrate political insights and non-executive sustainability throughout board experience will be a great our business remains benefit tous.
a key strategic priority for the Group Due to sustained low levels of liquidity and the general ability and preference for prospective investors to access Glencores primary exchange, we sought to delist from Hong Kong, which Structural industry took effect in January 2018. supply side challenges, coupled with robust demand, generate compelling fundamentals in our commodities Unrivalled positioning in Tier 1 commodities and Tier 1 assets will continue to create compelling value Glencore Annual Report 2017 07
