GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In the backdrop of a challenging Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive 2017, Petrofac delivered a strong performance.
Our clients demonstrated their confidence with both new and repeat business, we saw a recovery in new orders, progressed new organic growth opportunities, reduced capital intensity, delivered an impressive safety performance, and continued to deliver high standards of execution.
As a result, the business is on the path to recovery and well-positioned for sustained long-term success.
Clearly, Petrofacs 2017 performance was overshadowed by the investigation by the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO, which is covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Nonetheless, I want to thank the Board, RELENTLESS FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE our employees, our clients, and our shareholders for their support during this challenging period.
Together, we demonstrated the underlying resilience 2017 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE of the business and continued to make progress in delivering our strategy.
New order intake Kuwait I would like to provide an update on our three strategic themes, the evolving market US$5.2bn US$1.3bn environment, and my priorities for 2018 EPC contract awarded by Kuwait Oil Company andbeyond.
for an oil and gas sour gathering centre Oman Oman US$800m US$1.0bn contract awarded by BP for Phase 2 at Khazzan Petrofacs share of Duqm Refinery project Russia Turkey US$700m 340m contract awarded by Sakhalin Energy Investment contract awarded by South Stream Transport B. V. Company Ltd for its onshore processing facility for a gas receiving terminal 1 N ew order intake comprises new contract awards and extensions, net variation orders and the rolling increment attributable to EPS contracts that extend beyond five years.
Order intake is not an audited measure.
10 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Focusing on our core Delivering organic growth Reducing capital intensity Operational excellence continues to be We progressed organic growth We made significant progress in reducing a key theme for Petrofac and, in 2017, opportunities in both complementary the capital intensity of the business.
we continued our focus on best-in-class geographies and adjacent sectors.
This was achieved We have concluded the sale of our interest in tandem with an excellent safety For example, we are bidding actively in the Pnuco field in Mexico and have performance which saw us outperform and executing projects in India, South converted Santuario, the largest of our industry averages and receive several East Asia, Turkey and Russia, where we three remaining Mexican service contracts, safety accolades from clients.
have a full understanding of the risks and into a Production Sharing Contract, where we the capacity to deliver, and can build on have ownership of the underlying reserves.
We completed more than 239 million existing client relationships and or draw on We have also driven further significant man-hours across the Group, handing previous experience.
Indicative successes reductions in capital spending, and are over several projects to our clients.
A good include our first ever Turkish project, for a bringing increased visibility to our cash example is the Khazzan project for BP new 340 million gas receiving terminal, management.
Going forward, we expect in Oman, where we celebrated first gas and a return to EPC work in Russia with to continue to divest non-core assets, on Phase 1, extended an exemplary site the award of a US$700 million contract but will be measured in our approach, safety record beyond 43 million man-hours, on Sakhalin Island by Sakhalin Energy in a way that protects shareholder value.
and secured a US$800 million contract Investment Company Ltd. for Phase 2.
The Board has confirmed its intention In terms of adjacent sectors, we continue to exit the deep-water market and the A highlight in our EPS East business was to extend our downstream credentials.
JSD6000 installation vessel has been the securement of a 10-year Framework In recent years, we secured several reclassified as an asset held for sale.
Agreement for Petroleum Development major refinery projects and, in 2017, Oman PDO.
While the market remains were awarded a US$2 billion contract A reassuring new order intake, challenging for the EPS West business, from Duqm Refinery and Petrochemical providing good revenue visibility ongoing consolidation in our sector is Industries LLC where we are a 50 50 I regard our 2017 new order intake of expected to bring new opportunities.
joint venture partner with Samsung US$5.2 billion as a good outcome in a Engineering.
We are confident that, by challenging environment, giving us a healthy By building on our existing strengths, replicating this approach, we can achieve order book and good revenue visibility.
we are able to deepen our competitive similar success in downstream markets, position and deliver more value to clients.
such as petrochemicals, and win a share Tendering activity remains high and we During 2017, we continued to reduce of the substantial capital investments that continue to maintain our bidding discipline our cost base whilst maintaining our are planned in this sector.
to protect our margins in a competitive delivery capability.
Upstream, there is the beginning We have also had some success in of a recovery in capital spending plans and, I should stress that this approach to offshore wind.
In 2017, we made progress downstream, we see a flow of opportunities incremental improvement extends well with the BorWin3 and Galloper projects, and strong political will in several countries beyond our operational capability: our and were awarded a floating wind turbine to expand capacity and play a wider role environmental management systems were research project by the UKs Carbon Trust.
in the hydrocarbons value chain.
further refined, we brought more discipline to the way we manage and develop our In the UK, conditions remain difficult.
people, and we continued to further Contract extensions for Chevron and BP develop and highlight our compliance were welcome and our Memorandum agenda throughout the organisation.
of Understanding with Danos in the US demonstrates our determination to pursue Meanwhile, the events of 2017 forced selected opportunities in those markets a refresh of the senior leadership teams, which we consider to be attractive and withseveral internal promotions and a have knowledge of.
few external appointments, including John Pearson as Chief Corporate Development Officer and Group Managing Director, Western Hemisphere.
This demonstrated the strength of our succession planning as well as our ability to attract external candidates of the very highest calibre all without missing a beat in our delivery.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 11 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED DELIVERING SEAMLESSLY IN OMAN OMAN We were then awarded a Design Build lump-sum EPCC contract, worth around US$800 million, for Phase 2 of the project.
The Khazzan gas field is a This speaks for our record significant strategic asset for for project execution.
It also BP and also for the Sultanate enables us to continue the of Oman.
relationship with BP and build on our considerable Petrofacs involvement dates experience in the Sultanate.
back to 2014, when we were awarded the engineering, procurement, construction Read more and commissioning EPCC See page 36 contract valued at over US$1 billion for Phase 1 of the fields central processing facility.
A particular challenge was the tight timescales, which put significant demands on our technical teams and entailed a total of almost 43million man-hours.
First gas was delivered in August 2017.
The project was executed safely, on time and on budget, and the creation of In-Country Value was a guiding principle throughout.
US$800m Contract awarded by BP in 2017 for the Phase 2 central processing facility, Khazzan Project.
12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Continuing to re-shape Solid foundations for the IES business long-term recovery A key objective of the year was to continue Although the short-to-medium-term to deliver value from the IES portfolio and conditions remain challenging, we do position the business as a route to our anticipate healthy increased long-term wider services.
Signs of healthy recovery, coupled with robust global Besides the Pnuco divestment, growth forecasts for the next few years, progress included the migration of our first are fuelling a growing appetite for Production Enhancement Contract PEC hydrocarbons and ongoing capital to a Production Sharing Contract PSC, spending by resource holders, which which constitutes the first such migration in Petrofac is well placed to capitalise on.
Mexico and a pathway for our remaining two PECs.
Meanwhile production commenced The operational performance of 2017, from the Greater Stella Area development backed up by our delivery-focused in February, resumed in Tunisia in May, culture, our commitment to continuous following extensive shut-ins due to improvement, and our excellent client civil unrest, and continued in line with relationships, demonstrate that Petrofac expectations, albeit slightly lower on is well positioned to succeed as the the previous year, in Malaysia.
market continues to show encouraging signs of improvement.
Priorities for 2018 For 2018, you can expect us to continue to Ayman Asfari pursue faithfully our three strategic themes: Group Chief Executive focusing on our core, delivering organic 28 February 2018 growth in those markets and sectors that we know and where we can manage the execution risk very effectively, and reducing capital intensity.
A personal priority for 2018 is to pay even closer attention to the way we manage and develop our employees and plan our long-term succession.
Ultimately it is our people who are the key to Petrofacs distinctive, delivery-focused culture, and 2017 was the ultimate test.
In the face of considerable pressure, our 12,500 people stepped up, worked hard, and demonstrated a remarkable level of commitment and loyalty to the Company, and for that I would like to reiterate my profound thanks.
2018 is also bringing some changes to our Board.
After 11 years service, including three-and-a-half as Chairman, Rijnhard van Tets is stepping down and I would like to thank him for his clear sense of duty and support of the leadership team.
Similarly, I pay tribute to Thomas Thune Andersen, who stepped down at the end of 2017, thank him for many years of wise counsel, and wish him well for the future.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 13
