Chief Executive Officers review The leading global biotech company focused on rare diseases The main reason I believe our Company has performed so wellis because the Shire team isdriven by a clear mission, ashared purpose, and strong values all of which put the patient at the center of all that we do.
2017 is the year Shire solidified its position as the global leader in rare diseases.
Withapproximately 70 percent of revenues coming from rare disease products, and the most robust pipeline in Shires history 60percent of which are biologic therapies we continue to make significant progress in the Companys evolution.
As we evolved, we also put the Company on solid financial footing.
Key to Shires performance has been the ability to achieve strong financial results while managing ourlargest integration.
We grew by approximately 17,000 employees and consolidated 28 country sites globally and remain on track to deliver on our Baxalta cost synergy goal of $700 million by the third year post-close.
We achieved sales growth of 33 percent and delivered astrong operating cash flow of $4.3 billion enabling us to realize our 2017 leverage ratio target.
We are proud that we now have five of our seven franchises contributing more than $1billion in revenue annually.
Immunology delivered outstanding performance in 2017, driven by the success of our sub-cutaneous immunoglobulin products and growth in International markets.
Ophthalmics, our newest franchise, generated sales of $259 million in 2017 as XIIDRA, the only therapy approved in the U. S. to treat the signs and 6 Shire Annual Report 2017 symptoms of dry eye disease DED, to a new level.
To accelerate this goal, we are modernizing the manufacturing reached more than one million prescriptions wehave appointed a new Head of networkwith new facilities in Georgia written since launch in late 2016.
I am Research and Development and Chief U. S. and Dublin Ireland.
Our Georgia greatly appreciative of what our talented Scientific Officer, Andreas Busch, PhD, an plant willexpand manufacturing capacity and focused team has delivered, in many accomplished scientist with an extensive for ourplasma-derived products by cases, exceeding our performance background and impressive track record approximately 30 percent, while our Dublinfacility will focus on production expectations in 2017. inresearch.
Two distinct market-leading businesses At the same time, we continue to Since I arrived at Shire five years ago, complement our R&D innovation with new An industry-leading pipeline wehave grown from an ADHD-focused advances in health information technologies Our R&D organization continues to fuel our company to a global biotech with two and precision medicine.
Shire is utilizing robust pipeline with innovative therapies.
distinct market-leading businesses rare artificial intelligence AI as well as pursuing In2017, our R&D team completed 54 major market regulatory filings around the world.
To enable these wearables and sensor technology, Inaddition, Shire received two U. S. FDA two businesses to reach their full potential, particularly in clinical trials.
We are FastTrack Designations, two Orphan in early 2018 we announced that the partnering with new, cutting-edge DrugDesignations, and one Breakthrough neuroscience business warranted companies to improve the time it takes Therapy Designation.
We completed additional sharpened focus and increased forrare disease patients to find a diagnosis, ninePhase 3 clinical trials, and received investment and that there was a strong tailor our treatment options for smaller 126product approvals globally.
These strategic rationale for creating separate patient groups, and help us identify hard accomplishments are major strides forward Rare Disease and Neuroscience divisions.
tofind patients for clinical trials.
More on behalf of our patients.
Additional details For more information about the two information about these efforts can be about our pipeline can be found on page 24. divisions, please see page 12. found on page 30.
New product launches fueled growth Innovation at the heart of our We are also working to enhance our As we advanced programs through the visionandculture manufacturing network with an eye pipeline, we also developed a team that Our long-term vision is to be an  our reliability and excels at product launches and ensures driven biotech company focused on rare growth.
Were making important changes patients have access to these important diseases and specialized conditions across to our internal and external networks to therapies.
We executed 50 product our core scientific platforms and reduce redundancy while also ensuring launches globally in 2017, including the therapeutic areas.
Shire has an excellent supply continuity.
Among the benefits of initial launch of MYDAYIS in the U. S. and record of accessing external innovation and these changes, we anticipate savings of expanded into multiple new geographies delivering late-stage products to market.
$100 million annually beginning in 2019 and for products such as CUVITRU, NATPARA Going forward, we plan to build on these $300 million annually by 2023.
Additionally, capabilities by taking our internal research Shire Annual Report 2017 7 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review A year in review Q1 Q2 Ian Clark is appointed as a Seventh annual scholarship #PIPostsThanks Social Collaborative license Non-Executive Director forindividuals with ADHD is Campaign is launched to raise agreement is entered into with announced awareness of primary Parion Sciences, Inc. to Receipt of New Drug immunodeficiency advance SHP659 for Application for SHP465 for U. S. FDA Fast Track ophthalmic indications ADHD is acknowledged by Designation is received for VYVANSE is made available in U. S. FDA SHP655 for treatment of a new chewable tablet New headquarters office is congenital thrombotic formulation opened in Dublin City Center EU Conditional Marketing thrombocytopenic purpura Authorization is recommended Lanadelumab is shown to EMA validation of VEYVONDI for NATPAR for patients with INTUNIV, a non-stimulant for reduce HAE monthly attack Marketing Authorization chronic hypoparathyroidism the treatment of ADHD, is rate by 87% versus placebo in Application is received for byCHMP approved in Japan Phase 3 26-week pivotal trial treatment of von Willebrand disease European approval is received Rare Count campaign to EU Conditional Marketing for label extension of CINRYZE personalize the global impact Authorization is received for U. S. FDA approval is received to prevent and treat attacks in ofRare Diseases is launched NATPAR for treatment of for MYDAYIS formerly pediatric patients with HAE patients with chronic SHP465, a new once-daily Data are released showing hypoparathyroidism option for ADHD symptom New data from Shire that aim improved treatment satisfaction control in patients 13 years tohelp close the diagnosis and for patients on CUVITRU and older treatment gap for people with relative to previous hemophilia are presented immunoglobulin therapy NATPAR, and GATTEX REVESTIVE.
Id like to take this of myPKFiT, a registered software-based total, Shire generated $1.6 billion in sales in opportunity to thank our patients, their medical device for personalized hemophilia 2017 from products launched since 2013. families, and their healthcare providers A dosing in the U. S. And, we continue to Our products are now available in more forallowing us to be part of their journey.
invest in and expand our pipeline of than 100 countries enabling us to reach innovative Hematology programs.
Navigating challenges more patients than ever before.
For more While I am extremely proud of Shires While we are proud of our accomplishments details about Shires launch excellence, accomplishments in 2017, the year was in 2017, we also acknowledge that we need please see page 28. notwithout its challenges.
We faced to work even harder on improving Patient and customer focus generic competition for LIALDA for the shareholder value throughout 2018.
The main reason I believe our Company treatment ofulcerative colitis for the first Despite these challenges, Shire performed has performed so well is because the Shire time.
We also faced a supply interruption very well financially in 2017 delivering 8% team is driven by a clear mission, a shared during the summer for CINRYZE for the pro forma product sales growth to $14.4 purpose, and strong valuesall of which treatment of hereditary angioedema HAE billion, an increase of over $1 billion.
We put the patient at the center of all that we related to issues with a third-party also improved our operating margin and do.
We know we are most successful when manufacturer.
Wethank HAE patients and operating cash flow of $4.3 billion which we have patients front of mind, inspiring the HAE community for their patience while enabled us to reach our debt target.
ourthinking, and guiding our work every we worked diligently to address this issue single day.
and have taken steps to mitigate this risk Employees and culture inthe future, including bringing additional I would like to thank Shire employees and Central to our mission at Shire is being manufacturing of drug product in-house the Board of Directors who has provided close to our patients and our partners, beginning in 2018. invaluable guidance for the organization.
which allows us to not only serve them Weve grown from fewer than 6,000 better, but also to innovate based on their We also experienced increased competition employees to more than 23,000, and insights.
We are often with patients for the in the Hematology franchise, but continue everyone continues to focus on our mission long-term, given that half of rare diseases to be confident in our leadership position.
to serve the needs of patients.
The are diagnosed in childhood.
From diagnosis Shire is committed to innovating and accomplishments achieved in 2017 are to finding appropriate treatment options, building for the future as it can be seen incredible and I look forward to an equally securing access, and supporting patients with ADYNOVI receiving a positive opinion impressive 2018. on treatment, we are committed to the and, early this year, the marketing wellbeing of our patients for life.
The authorization from the European Medicines inspiration they provide to our team is Agency EMA and with the recent approval 8 Shire Annual Report 2017 Q3 Q4 Investigational New Drug MYDAYIS is launched in The appointments of Thomas OnePath patient portal and Application is submitted to U. S. theU.
S. Dittrich as CFO and Andreas mobile application are FDA for gene therapy candidate Busch, PhD as Head of R&D launched SHP654 for treatment of Lifitegrast Marketing and CSO are announced hemophilia A Authorization Application for EU Marketing Authorization is treatment of dry eye disease European approval for label recommended by CHMP for Licensing agreement is entered issubmitted in Europe extension of FIRAZYR for ADYNOVI for adults and into with Novimmune S. A. for symptomatic treatment adolescents with hemophilia A bi-specific antibody to expand Positive topline results for of acute HAE attacks in Shires monoclonal antibody INTUNIV in Phase 3 clinical trial paediatric patients is received U. S. FDA clearance is research platform in adults with ADHD are received for myPKFiT for released U. S. FDA Orphan Drug ADVATE to help personalize It is announced that Jeff Designation is received for care for hemophilia A Poulton will step down as CFO SHP616 is shown to gene therapy candidate at end of 2017 significantly reduce HAE SHP654 for treatment of Positive CHMP opinion is monthly attack rate versus hemophilia A received in Europe for new placebo in a Phase 3 pivotal formulation of ONCASPAR for Joanne Cordeiro is appointed trial Topline results for SHP609 patients with acute Chief Human Resources Officer are announced showing lymphoblastic leukemia ALL and a member of the Executive U. S. FDA Fast Track Phase 2 3 clinical trial in Committee Designation is received for children with Hunter Submission is filed with U. S. SHP607 for prevention of syndrome and cognitive FDA for approval of new Collaboration with MicroHealth chronic lung disease in impairment did not meet plasma manufacturing facility is launched to address unique extremely premature infants itsprimary endpoint near Covington, Georgia needs of hemophilia patients with inhibitors I am energized and excited about Shires Outlook and summary Pipeline spotlight: SHP643 for future as we look forward to growing our We left 2017 stronger than weve ever been hereditary angioedema franchises, especially Immunology: before with leadership positions in many of executing on our many launches: leveraging the therapeutic areas in which we compete.
Read more on page 26 our robust international footprint in key In particular, we now have a leading markets such as China to expand access high-growth Immunology franchise, which to our 40 marketed products: and, will be the foundation of our rare disease Commercial spotlight: building an innovative, results-oriented, business as we move into 2018.
Our Launch Excellence patient-centric culture.
I am confident that neuroscience business will soon benefit from our team and our partners will continue to increased investment and focus as welook Read more on page 28 execute on our priorities and serve as to broaden our expertise beyond ADHD.
Technology spotlight: Intersection 2018 will be a year of continued focus oncommercial execution and targeted of health and technology to enable investment in our manufacturing patient-centric care infrastructure, new product launches, Read more on page 30 andpipeline to drive future growth.
We expect to deliver mid-single digit product sales growth in 2018 after absorbing the Franchise spotlight: Immunology anticipated impact of generics.
Based on current assumptions, we also expect Read more on page 32 margins to be impacted by the start-up Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH ofour new U. S. plasma manufacturing site, intensifying genericization, and lower Chief Executive Officer royalties.
But, I remain confident that Shire will continue to build on our leadership position in both rare disease and neuroscience and we are committed to achieving our 2020 goal of $17-$18 billion inrevenues and mid-forties Non GAAP EBITDA margin.
Shire Annual Report 2017 9 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
