Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Introduction Chairmans Statement Overview I am pleased to present the Sanne Group plcs The alternative fund administration market Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year continues to expand, offering good prospects for ended 31 December 2017. the Group.
Increasing and changing regulations are difficult to deal with in-house and outsourcing Performance the administration of this to a specialist provider with a global footprint such as SANNE becomes an SANNE has delivered a strong set of financial ever more attractive proposition.
Total revenues increased by 77% overall, with organic revenue growth of 14%.
The 2017 was a year of group-wide consolidation, Groups underlying operating profit increased by and significant work has been undertaken to 76% to 38.8 million.
Operating profit was 23.1 strengthen procedures and controls.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 2016 acquisitions have been largely integrated 79% to 38.1 million.
Profit before tax was 22.4 into the business, offering an expanded global million.
The Groups underlying operating profit reach.
The Company re-invested in 2017 and Rupert Robson margin was 34.3%.
into 2018, in internal support, within the control Chairm an functions and in bolstering the first and second The underlying diluted EPS was 23.7 pence 2016: lines of defence.
Additional investment has also 16.9 pence.
been made in staff training and in standardising SANNE has our processes and procedures.
This underpins our Increased dividend strategy of a compliance culture.
The Board continues to adopt a progressive continued to evolve SANNE completed the acquisition of the Mauritian dividend policy, subject always to maintaining a business, International Financial Services Limited sufficient level of dividend cover.
It still expects to as an organisation, and IFS Trustees together IFS on 1 January 2017, retain sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating and increased its Luxembourg presence with the requirements and to invest in the Groups longintegrating acquisitions of Luxembourg Investment Solutions term growth.
S. A. LIS and Compliance Partners S. A. CP on 6 acquisitions and The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.4 February 2018. pence per ordinary share 2016: 6.4 pence.
The emerging with a final dividend will be payable on 15 May 2018 to Corporate governance Shareholders on the register at close of business During the year the Board has further developed regional and global on 3 April 2018. its corporate governance.
The Nomination Together with the previously paid 2017 interim Committee was evolved into the Nomination business model.
dividend of 4.2 pence per share, this gives a total and Governance Committee, and it was decided dividend for the year of 12.6 pence per share to split the Audit and Risk Committee into two 2016: 9.6 pence in total.
The corporate governance framework needs to support processes and create Business development a strong tone from the top.
The strengthening of our framework will help the Company build SANNE has continued to evolve as an organisation, its business and support sustainable growth.
integrating acquisitions and emerging with More information is provided on our corporate a regional and global business model.
This governance in the Directors Report on pages places the Group in a strong position to address 47 to 49.
In addition, on pages 42 to 47 there is worldwide opportunities as it builds a sustainable a report on how SANNE complies with the UK global business.
Further, the business continues Corporate Governance Code the Code.
to invest significantly in staff training and group services functions, strengthening its procedures.
In 2017, the Board and the Committees had an external effectiveness review.
The conclusions from the review were useful and its recommendations have been accepted.
com Introduction James joins SANNE from Investec, where he has Our people been for over 10 years, advising public and private I would like to thank everyone, on behalf of the companies on mergers and acquisitions and Board, for their hard work and contribution to equity capital markets transactions.
James has the Groups 2017 performance.
There is more acted as a board-level adviser to a broad range of information on our people, diversity and inclusion businesses including internationally diverse groups on pages 27 and 51. with a significant emphasis on human capital for their service delivery.
Most recently he has been Our role in society the head of Investecs Support Services sector team which includes the fund and corporate In this years report there is included for the first administration services sector.
He is expected to time a section on Corporate Social Responsibility join the Board as CFO in June 2018, at which point CSR.
SANNE supports the charitable efforts of Spencer will step down from the Board.
staff around the Group and its strategy focusses on three core CSR themes: benefiting children, Mel Carvill was welcomed to the Board on 1 fighting poverty and supporting education.
Currently based in Guernsey, The Committees and the Board have discussed Mel brings global financial services and risk gender pay, diversity and inclusion.
The Board management experience accumulated from his has reviewed gender pay and is looking to ensure time at Generali and more recently at PPF Group.
internal procedures are enhanced to ensure all He will serve as Chairman of the newly constituted staff are treated equally.
The Company is keen to ensure that its Phil Godley stepped down from the Board on environmental impact is minimised and takes 1 January 2018.
Phil's business leadership and a number of steps to seek to reduce its carbon valuable contribution to the Board have hugely footprint, by encouraging the use of conference supported SANNE through its launch on the stock calls to reduce travel, recycling materials and market and in the period since.
selecting new offices that are built with the environment in mind.
Outlook SANNE has had a year of progress with strong Our culture financial results.
Our longer-term prospects SANNE has a strong collegiate culture, which are driven by the strong growth in the global encourages entrepreneurial drive.
The increase in workloads of early 2018 the Company introduced further asset managers creates additional administration training to optimise its compliance and control that SANNE can manage as an outsourced processes at the centre of our business.
SANNE solution with our international footprint.
Looking has also built its assurance capability further in forward we are building on our success as a high 2017 and early 2018 to maintain focus in this area.
growth sustainable business whilst investing in our infrastructure.
Against this background, the Board membership outlook for 2018 continues to look promising.
Spencer Daley, Chief Financial Officer CFO, is to take on the role of Head of M&A and Strategy, with responsibility for helping the Group explore and maximise strategic opportunities, both organic and inorganic.
Spencer will be succeeded as CFO by James Ireland.
I am delighted that James is joining SANNE as CFO as Spencers successor.
He has worked very closely with both Dean Godwin, SANNEs Chief Executive Rupert Robson Officer, and Spencer for a number of years, and Chairman engaged well with the broader management team and Board at SANNE.
His background will be a 21 March 2018 great asset in helping the business to deliver its future development and global growth plans.
indd 3 23 03 2018 16:23:59 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Introduction Chief Executive Officers Statement Our vision SANNEs vision is to be one of the worlds leading We have further developed the three lines of providers of alternative asset and corporate defence, ensuring we have specialist compliance administrative services.
We have been driving to personnel working with the business in achieve this through building a sustainable global conjunction with the checks and balances from business based on best practice, professionalism, the second line of defence in Risk and Compliance ambition, integrity and engagement.
Strategic and Internal Audit the third line.
In addition, we recruitment of talent and increased jurisdictional have internal financial controls in place to protect presence have helped us to deliver high quality SANNE and our clients.
Details of our approach professional services.
to controls can be found in the Risk Management Report on pages 22 to 26 and in the Report of the The aim is to deliver services to a range of Audit and Risk Committee on pages 52 to 56. international, institutional and private client customers.
SANNE seeks to ensure excellent client SANNE has had a successful year and highlights service, based on our organisational values of include the acquisition of our new Mauritian Dean Godwin professionalism and integrity.
After the year-end we also finalised r the acquisition of Luxembourg Investment Our markets Solutions S. A. and Compliance Partners S. A. on 6 February 2018.
These businesses have expanded Our focus is to continue to build scale in Strategic our expertise and jurisdictional coverage.
established and emerging markets in order that we can deliver global solutions to new and existing recruitment of Senior Management clients.
We continue to see the trend towards the Further to the CFO announcement today, I am outsourcing of corporate and fund administration talent and increased pleased to welcome James Ireland, who will join activity from institutions and asset managers to us in June, as the new CFO.
It is recognised that ease administration and to have independent jurisdictional Spencer is an important part of the SANNEs oversight.
We provide administration services for success story.
He has been instrumental in helping alternatives and due to greater outsourcing, partly presence have helped IPO the Group in 2015 and has played a key role as a result of a changing regulatory environment, in the strong growth of the business over the demand is increasing.
There is more detail on us to deliver high past five years.
His entrepreneurial spirit is ideally our business model on pages 8 to 9 and on our suited to his new role, Head of M&A and Strategy, segmental reporting on pages 16 to 20. quality professional as the business looks forward to capturing the opportunities that lie ahead.
The impact of Brexit in the market is unlikely to On 1 January 2018 Phil Godley stepped down from damage global demand for services, however we the Board.
I wish to thank Phil for his contribution anticipate that our offices in Dublin, Luxembourg, to the Board.
Malta and the Netherlands are likely to benefit There were a number of key internal promotions from any potential increase in demand.
Our recent over the past year that strengthened the SANNE acquisition of Luxembourg Investment Solutions management team: S. A. and Compliance Partners S. A. has further strengthened our EU footprint.
Martin Schnaier was promoted into the role of Chief Commercial Officer.
2017 Sean Murray was appointed as the Managing During the year we have focused on ensuring our Director for EMEA Alternatives, previously business model is built for expansion.
We have held by Martin Schnaier.
recruited new talent in client and group services and invested in infrastructure.
At the same time Mark Law joined on 14 August 2017 to lead we have consolidated our processes and boosted our Asia-Pacific & Mauritius business.
He is our back office functions.
