12 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT A PLATFORM FOR GROWTH CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Playtech has continued to execute its strategy to improve the quality of Group earnings and has made strategic progress in key growth areas.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer 54% 18% 5% 49% GAMING DIVISION Group revenue from Growth in Group Group revenue B2B Gaming See our full divisional regulated markets revenue at constant highlights on page 20 growth excluding margin currency acquisitions at 2016: 48% Group margin: 40% constant currency 13 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT A UNIQUE AT THE FOREFRONT A TRACK RECORD OFFERING OF INNOVATION OF GROWTH Omni-channel offers users a Our investment into R&D is We have a strong track record unique and seamless journey enhancing the digitalisation of growth across our business through technology and of gaming and extending our through a combination of compliance tools.
organic growth and the acquisition of complementary Read more on page 26 Read more on page 24 businesses, technology and content.
Read more on page 48 COMMITTED SUCCESSFUL HIGH SHAREHOLDER TO REGULATION LEADERSHIP RETURNS We work closely with A strong, experienced and We are committed to returning value to shareholders, as regulators to ensure they successful leadership team, understand the impact of together with a management evidenced by the strong technical changes and structured to implement compound growth in our specific local requirements.
Read more on page 58 Read more on page 68 Read more on page 20 Importantly, the strength of our balance Moreover, the launch of our new Gaming OVERVIEW: A POSITION OF sheet and cash flows means Playtech can Platform as a Service GPAS and Marketplace STRENGTH IN THE INDUSTRY continue to invest in our proven approach represent the next stage of evolution of I am pleased to report that Playtech enjoyed in strategic, fast growing, markets in Europe the Playtech platform, ensuring that it is another year of operational success and as and Latin America by delivering and running Playtechs technology which remains the a result finds itself in a position of strength integrated online and retail solutions to the architecture of the industry.
Despite headwinds local heroes in these markets.
It is these in regulated revenue in H1 2017 and land-based operators that are best placed to REGULATION the disruptions in unregulated markets lead the growth of the new online markets.
Regulation continues to be one of the experienced in the second half of 2017, the This will continue to drive the improvement biggest influences in the gambling industry strength of the underlying Playtech business in the quality of earnings we saw in 2017, worldwide, shaping the growth in each was demonstrated by the 18% revenue with regulated revenue now reaching territory.
Playtechs strategy has been to growth for the Group at constant currency.
54% of Group revenue in 2017 and set to invest in regulated markets, through organic continue to grow.
Moreover, the growth of growth and acquisitions and this resulted in Moreover, given the operational progress these important markets will also drive the regulated gaming revenue increasing to 49% in our Playtech ONE Omni-channel offering geographical diversification of Playtechs in 2017 from 42% in 2016. reported in 2017, Playtech is in an important revenue base, an important strategic strategic position going in to 2018.
The objective for management in 2018.
Given the growth experienced in mature strength of the new Live and Sports offerings regulated markets, such as the UK, Playtechs has delivered immediate results with new Finally, we operate in a rapidly changing strategy is to focus on investing in fast contract wins in Casino and Live and our and dynamic industry and it is important that growing newly regulated or regulating first online sports book licensees for PBS we continue to invest in the evolution of markets.
During the period, we concentrated following the restructuring of our sports the Playtech technology and offering.
The on supporting the organic growth of our division.
Management believe that Playtech acquisition of BetBuddy in 2017 adds ever customers in Italy, Spain, Finland, Denmark, ONE is at equal strength across all key greater Responsible Gambling functionality Mexico, Columbia and Romania.
Moreover, product verticals and will provide Playtech to our platform, providing further support our strategy of partnering with the leading with a strategic advantage in winning new to licensees in developed markets that retail brands in newly regulated markets licensees in key regulated and regulating are facing increased responsibilities in continued as we became the first supplier markets in coming years.
to launch online casino in the Czech Republic with the expanding Fortuna brand in January 2017.
14 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONT.
Latin America remains a key growth territory REGULATION CONTINUED IMS THE PLAYTECH PLATFORM for online gaming.
Mexico is now one of The Playtech ONE Omni-channel offering is One of the most powerful elements of Playtechs top five regulated markets, by uniquely placed to support new and existing Playtech ONE is the use of the data collected player jurisdiction, following the growth licensees in newly regulated markets.
across the breadth of the verticals and of licensee Caliente.
The strength of our channels.
Key to our strategy is the continued operations in Latin America positions us well Playtech provides all the capabilities across development of the functionality of the with the potential significant markets of Peru the gambling value chain from software and Playtech platform as we continue to utilise and Brazil currently reviewing regulations.
services to direct customer acquisition and the player data and intelligence collated marketing capabilities, offering a seamless via the IMS.
In the US, the outcome of the judicial platform across all gambling verticals and review on sports betting could represent with customer entry points in retail and online.
As the gambling market continues to a milestone towards the regulation of sports This makes Playtech the partner of choice mature, the focus for operators in developed betting at a federal level.
Currently, the for the leading land based operators that markets such as the UK continues to move limited regulation of online casino does not are best placed to lead the newly regulated beyond player acquisition to focus on player present a commercially beneficial opportunity online markets.
retention and ultimately increasing player for Playtech.
However, we believe that life time value.
The platform allows for the potential movement in sports betting This was demonstrated post period end industry standard bonusing, together with regulation would represent an attractive in January 2018 when Playtech signed an more sophisticated mechanics, including opportunity given the unique strength agreement to provide Sociedade fide Apostas automated cashback, free-spins, golden of our Playtech BGT Sports offering.
Sociais SAS with its new online sports book chips for table and card games and other and online casino platform, all integrated types of bonuses.
All these promotional PLAYTECH ONE through Playtechs IMS player management methods can be controlled and configured Although multi-channel approaches are system.
SAS is majority owned by Santa by the operator, allowing for stringent liability Casa, Portugals national lottery provider, common same content across web, mobile and monetary control.
Games Advisor is a and the launch of an online casino and sports and retail, Playtechs unique approach to real-time driven recommendation engine betting offering follows regulation of online Omni-channel is based on one integrated based on sophisticated real time algorithms gambling in Portugal in late 2016.
This single CRM across all that suggests other games the player product verticals and channels allows for a might be interested in with high probability, In the second half of 2017 the Company single customer profile, and therefore single dependent on many game-specific variables, experienced a slowdown in Malaysia due customer experience.
Central to this single including volatility, win hit frequency and to changing market conditions.
Our strategic customer experience is Playtechs ability to win distribution.
During the second half position on Asia is unchanged.
We operate offer integrated products in each vertical.
of 2017 we have seen the number of Tier Not only are these products integrated a risk based approach where our legal and One licensee active marketing campaigns compliance teams are consistently reviewing from a branding point of view, e. g the Age managed through the Playtech Campaign the regulatory environment to ensure that our of the Gods suite available online and in Manager more than double to over 4,000 presence is commercially beneficial to the retail across Live, Bingo and Casino, to active campaigns with some managing Group.
As outlined at the trading update in drive player interaction across verticals, but hundreds in parallel.
also integrated in their use and collection November 2017 the Board and Management is focused on continuing to diversify its of player data allowing for more tailored, The acquisition of BetBuddy, the Responsible revenue base by investing in fast growing and successful, marketing and player crossGambling analytics solution provider, regulated and regulating markets in Europe sell.
Playtech is uniquely positioned given represents a continuation of Playtechs and Latin America through organic growth the scale of its platform, the capabilities and strategy to acquire complimentary software access to data that scale provides.
This strategy will continue to drive that will utilise the big data collated via the the growth in Playtechs regulated revenue ONE creates an ecosystem for operators IMS and add to the industry leading services streams and will diversify the geographical supporting a data driven offering that available to operators on Playtechs platform.
make-up of our revenue base.
improves the engagement with customers Furthermore in 2017 Playtech signed a significantly within the ecosystem maintaining strategic partnership with Featurespace their loyalty to operator brands.
to integrate its real-time gameplay fraud FUTURE MARKETS detection models into the IMS already Between 2018 and 2019 licensing Playtech believes that retail is one of the considerable player protection tool kit.
regimes are expected to be introduced most powerful bet entry points for customers in major European countries including and our strategy in recent years has been GPAS & MARKETPLACE the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and to invest in industry leading retail software some commentators expect significant GPAS Gaming Platform as a Service capabilities across all verticals.
IGS, retail steps forward in Germany.
Playtech already provides the next step in Playtechs casino software, ECM, the retail Bingo has an agreement in place with national relationship with licensees, content providers software and BGT as part of Playtech BGT operator Holland Casino in the Netherlands and developers.
Third parties can use the Sports allow land-based operators to capture and remains in discussions with potential Playtechs drag and drop maths engine to retail player traffic as part of the Playtech customers in others.
build high quality HTML5 games or submit ONE ecosystem.
their own existing content for distribution across Playtechs global network on any channel.
GPAS content can be seamlessly developed for retail and online, whereas traditionally converting popular online games into retail games was expensive and inefficient involving two sets of technology and two sets of developers.
15 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Management believe GPAS will provide Given the Company position and strong a strategic advantage for Playtechs Omnibalance sheet it remains opportunistic and channel approach in newly regulated fast acquisitive.
It does however remain disciplined growing markets, as integrated content and takes measured steps to ensure the across retail and online can help facilitate the opportunities are in line with our stated M&A player journey across channels and will also strategy and present growth opportunities provide our customers with more flexibility beyond cost synergies which are important allowing them to develop bespoke games but not the essence of our approach.
GAMING DIVISION PERFORMANCE Marketplace is Playtechs new content BY VERTICAL discovery platform where operators can access Playtechs portfolio of content.
As GAMING B2B new content providers or partners develop The new presentation of Gaming revenue by games on GPAS, they will be able to place vertical is explained fully in the CFO section.
their games onto the Marketplace, gaining Gaming B2B includes software and services immediate access to all Playtechs distribution revenues, while Gaming B2C includes whitenetwork.
Our goal is for Marketplace to label gaming operations in regulated markets, become a games store that is based on SAS NEW such as Sun bingo and casual games.
and driven by data that will automatically determine the relevance of games to SPORTSBOOK CASINO different customers demographics.
Casino revenue grew 11% from 2016 to 2017 CLIENT and 15% at constant currency.
Despite the CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION headwinds in Asia in H2 2017 the growth The period saw revenue from the top ten was driven by the organic growth of existing SOCIEDADE fide APOSTAS licensees stand at 55% compared to 54% licensees with growth excluding acquisitions SOCIAIS SAS, PORTUGALS for full year 2016.
Revenue from the top five of 12% at constant currency.
LARGEST REGULATED licensees remained consistent on the full year ONLINE OPERATOR period at 36% and 37% of revenue in 2016 and The pillars of Playtechs future growth 2017 respectfully.
This was the first full year strategy are reflected in the operational In February 2018 Playtech signed a period where the consolidation, and ultimately achievements reported in our Casino vertical landmark deal landmark deal to supply increased scale and growth, of key licensees as we continued to support the organic Sociedade fide Apostas Sociais SAS, such as Ladbrokes Coral was included.
In growth of our core regulated markets.
Portugals largest online gaming and addition, this was the first full year period where In Europe in 2017 Playtech launched 45 betting operator, with its cutting-edge the large revenue contributing Sun Bingo new games in Italy, 75 in Spain, 90 in Czech IMS player management platform related white-label contract was included.
Republic, 71 in Bulgaria and 51 in the UK.
Importantly, following the fide-coupling of M&A Playtechs Casino games from the platform SAS is one of the first operators to As outlined above, the acquisition of that formed part of the platform overhaul launch such a wide range of online BetBuddy for an undisclosed fee in October reported at the interim results in August 2017, products following the country 2017 was an important acquisition.
The Playtech is now able to launch new content regulating gaming and betting integration of BetBuddys behavioural seamlessly across all regulated markets, 18 months ago.
identification and modification software into allowing licensees to deliver global marketing Playtechs powerful IMS player management campaigns for branded content.
The multi-year agreement will see system will enable Playtech to continue Playtech integrate its award-winning to lead the industry in the delivery of In November Playtech announced the launch data-driven IMS player management Responsible Gambling products and services.
of exclusive online Casino agreement with platform and single wallet functionality leading Spanish operator Casino Barcelona, into SASs operation, powering its entire In February 2017 Playtech completed the in addition to online casino the agreement online offering.
acquisition of Eyecon, a specialist supplier saw Casino Barcelona join Playtechs Spanish of online gaming soft slots, and a bingo slots iPoker.
The Playtech BGT Sports PBS digital specialist software for an initial consideration offering is a single, integrated solution of 25 million 29 million.
The acquisition Content & Studios for both desktop and mobile devices of Eyecon is a further example of Playtech containing a state-of-the-art interface In 2017 Playtech completed the unification executing its Omni-channel solution through that will enable SAS customers to bet of its games studios onto our agile earnings accretive M&A.
Eyecon is a soft casino on the move or at home.
games development platform content slot provider specialising in games for the and distribution strategy.
Eyecon deepens the content With a focus on simple navigation and operates eight games studios worldwide, offering in the Bingo vertical ultimately helping in-play betting, the mobile solution all with proven pedigrees and collectively to drive revenue across verticals as well as meets the needs of all online bettors providing unparalleled knowledge and allow us to also extend to retail.
The acquisition and maximises operator margins.
experience in online casino games creation.
strengthens Playtech's Bingo distribution The studios are now applying the new network whilst offering industry leading games content.
16 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONT.
Playtech content pillars to game production: Live Casino PLAYTECH BGT SPORTS PBS Signature individual style of the studio, This year saw Playtech complete the full Revenue in Sports for 2017 saw an increase Reach relevance to market, Reliability migration of existing Live Casino rooms on 2016 of 58% at constant currency.
This stable games and publication dates and to the new market leading facility in Riga.
was due to the contribution from BGT, the Value largest Jackpots, bonusing tools, This has enabled Playtech to drive product retail Sports software provider acquired by engagement tools.
This unified approach innovation in Live with new concepts, games Playtech in July 2016.
Underlying revenue to rapid Omni-channel game deployment and features.
Driven by the powerful Playtech excluding acquisitions at constant currency enables operators seeking differentiation IMS player management platform and datadeclined compared to 2016 mainly due to and customisation to integrate bespoke driven business intelligence technology, the absence of the Mobenga contracts which games in record time and under budget.
Playtech Live Casino is fully integrated into came into effect at the end of H1 2016. the Playtech platform and Casino offering.
Given the size and scale of Playtechs Playtech Live Casino therefore delivers A key strategic milestone in 2017 has distribution platform we are in an unrivalled greater cross-sell opportunities through a been the launch and the completion of position to be able to develop branded seamless user experience from slots to Live the integration of Playtech BGT Sports content as a cornerstone of our portfolio of table games in conjunction with industry first PBS.
PBS brings together Playtech Sports over 600 games.
The first half of 2017 saw branded Live games and pooled jackpot companies BGT, Geneity, Mobenga, Unilogic Playtech sign an industry first agreement experiences.
and Playtechs internal Sports Trading team.
with DC Comics to provide a full suite of DC In 2017 PBS completed a considered and branded games including the Man of Steel, The quality of our Live Casino offering was strategic integration combining the best of Classic Superman and Batman and Suicide reflected in the progress we made with technology and modules from the Playtech Squad slot titles.
The DC agreement was licensees in the key vertical in 2017.
The Sports companies and delivering the the culmination of a strategic project in the completion of the migration to the new Riga industrys first integrated retail and online second half of 2016 designed to replace facility saw Playtech re-imagine and design sports betting platform.
PBS will provide a the Marvel studios content in the Playtech all dedicated areas for our leading customers, bricks-to-clicks fully integrated sports betting portfolio.
Playtech had a long and successful this resulted in Tier 1 Live Casino customers technology solution based on Playtech ONE, relationship with Marvel studios and this renewing existing agreements for long offering single-betting accounts across the ended in 2016 following Marvels acquisition term deals, such as Sky in July 2017, and web, mobile, self-service betting terminals by Disney and a change of licensing increasing the number of dedicated tables SSBTs and over the counter OTC in retail approach from the acquirer.
Moreover, we saw new betting shops.
commitments for dedicated tables in the The second half of 2017 saw Playtech second half of the year from Betfred and BGO PBS believes there is significant opportunity complete an industry first for gaming content Entertainment and launched new licensees for SSBT growth globally and has seen the by completing the synchronised launch of the Sports Interaction and Stoiximan in Greece number of active retail machines increase DC Justice League slot game in conjunction at the end of 2017.
37% from c. 27,000 in December 2016 with the launch of the Hollywood film to c. 37,000 in December 2017.
With the available to licensees across all regulated Importantly as part of the Tier 1 renewal completion of the integration of the PBS markets.
Moreover 2017 saw Playtech further process, and in line with the Groups growth retail software to the Playtech ONE platform grow its portfolio of branded games by strategy, Playtech Live Casino secured the size of the retail machine footprint offers launching the American Dad, The Matrix, new territory launches for Tier 1 licensees significant opportunities for the cross sell RoboCop, Monty Python's Holy Grail and including the launch of Live Casino on of PBS integrated offering.
Sky Bets Sky Italy gaming sites.
The sophistication and success of the new Live Along with the completion of the PBS In addition to the global branded content offering was reflected with Sky Bets success integration the Sports division has strategy for slot games the breadth of our in winning the eGaming Review Innovation in concentrated on growing its retail and games development capabilities allows Casino award for its new Playtech supplied online customer base in the key fast growing Playtech to launch territory specific games Live Casino.
Sky Bet went live with its new markets in Europe and Latin America, in and content.
The second half of 2017 saw state of the art dedicated Live Casino line with the Group level strategy.
Early in the successful launch of slot game Torrente environment in April 2017 and won the award the period PBS announced a three-year for the Spanish market.
Moreover, Playtechs for offering players an enhanced Omniagreement with OPAP, the leading Greek own Age of the Gods suite of games channel experience, product enhancements betting and lottery operator, for the supply continues to go from strength to strength with and richer gameplay.
of SSBTs, relevant software and services, its games titles in the top rankings of popular and the introduction of an OTC sports betting games for all our licensees.
The second half of 2017 saw PBS in the series, God of Storms, experienced a solution go live across the 4,500 estate with highly successful launch in 2017.
The Age of over four thousand OTC tills and over 1,500 the Gods suite is the end result of thorough SSBTs active by the end of the period.
research that was based on big data analysis designed to improve the probability of success of the games.
17 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT In addition to OPAP, 2017 saw PBS launch SSBTs with customers in Malta, Romania, Spain, Czech Republic, Austria and Germany.
As outlined at the interim results in August 2017, alongside Europe a key focus for the PBS SSBT product was growth in Latin America and the second half of 2017 saw PBS install a first phase SSBT programme in Columbia with Codere and Sportium.
The second half of 2017 also saw an important strategic milestone in the launch of PBS first integrated online and retail sports book customers with German operator HpyBet and Belgian Magic Betting.
In addition, the post period end signing of an integrated online sports book and casino platform with the biggest gambling brand in Portugal, SAS, was another important strategic win for the new sports division.
Key contracts have been renewed with Betfred and Paddy Power Betfair with both secured until at least 2020 and with Betfred taking another 500 terminals and Paddy Power shops installing a minimum of 800 new terminals over the next 12 months.
Playtechs strategy in Sports is to continue to PLAYTECH BGT SPORTS drive product development to retain operator and customer engagement with retail.
In H1 2017, PBS launched its revolutionary In line with Group strategy we delivered INTEGRATION, INNOVATION, Retail Mobile App named Bet Tracker.
Bet important geographical expansion in DISRUPTION Tracker went live with Betfred in August 2017 strategically important territories, such and Jennings Bet, Boyles and Plucks will This year, 2017 was a challenging and as Germany, Spain, Italy, Columbia and also followed later in 2017.
The Bet Tracker important year.
We had the challenge of Mexico.
Moreover, my goal was to deliver product is leading the digitilisation of the integrating four different Sportsbetting the new PBS platform to one of Europes retail sports experience, allowing customers platforms across seven different countries largest Lottery and Sports operators to track their bets placed in store on their into one division Playtech BGT Sports.
This was our biggest mobile phones without already having a client project in 2017. mobile account, giving operators increased Our plan was to take the best of touch points with their customers.
In addition, technology stack and modules across Key to maintaining our strategic position 2017 saw PBS become the first retail provider the different companies and form an in sports is innovation of our products and to deliver Lottolands jackpot lotto betting integrated PBS Sportsbetting platform we introduced new exclusive content and products on SSBTs located in licenced across retail and online, whilst at the same innovations across all our product lines: betting shops.
time delivering growth and maintaining Self Service, Till and Digital Applications.
our advantage in the existing retail Moreover, PBS integration into Playtechs Sports offering.
I am proud to report that the PBS IMS platform has allowed PBS to build in management team and all our fabulous the same data tools and functionality that is Our vision is to change the way that employees our vision within the last 12 available across the Playtech ONE platform.
bookmakers think about sportsbetting by months.
Thank you to all our passionate In line with the Groups strategy to deliver delivering a bricks-to-clicks fully integrated PBS employees that are coming on Responsible Gambling tools to support Sportsbetting technology solution based this journey with us to change the way licensees PBS has agreed a development on Playtech ONE the unique Omni-channel operators think about Sportsbetting.
roadmap with the UK Gambling Commission platform.
From digital SSBTs and OTC in to deliver Anti Money Laundering and Fraud retail to mobile, web and tablet.
Dr Armin Sageder prevention identification tools across the CEO Playtech BGT Sports retail and online platform.
Altogether Playtech BGT Sports aims to form the leading Sportsbetting Technology Powerhouse of the industry.
18 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONT.
SERVICES OTHER TRADETECH GROUP The increase in contribution from the whitePLAYTECHS FINANCIAL DIVISION Other revenues grew 48% to 26.4 million label offering meant the transition in services as our retail Casino software, the IGS landTradeTech Group achieved key from dot com to regulated revenue streams based Casino system management system milestones in 2017, delivering both continued in the period resulting in a higher received new orders across the Rank estate significant organic growth as well as proportion of regulated revenues for this and across the eight landmark Caesars successful acquisitions which together are vertical.
As part of the natural transition Entertainment EMEA casino portfolio.
providing the foundation for future growth, from unregulated to regulated markets our in line with the strategic vision at Playtech services division is now focused on different B2C GAMING partners in regulated markets where we Group level.
The strong financial results The new disclosure shows a new line item see real momentum in activity.
In Mexico, reflect the significant improvement and called B2C Gaming which include white-label, our partner Caliente is going from strength progress we have made last year.
to strength and we continue to experience The division reported significant growth significant growth.
In Spain, we see good on reported results and importantly WHITE-LABEL AND B2C momentum from our local partners and when excluding acquisitions and on a expect it to continue rapidly growing in the The contract with News UK for Sun proforma assuming ACM assets acquired coming years.
We have made real progress Bingo continues to see improvement in from beginning of financial year basis, in other markets such as the UK, Italy and in revenue although it remains challenging.
delivering Adjusted EBITDA growth across line with our overall strategy and focus on As a reminder, although the migration of each of the different business segments, regulated markets our services division will Sun Bingo in 2016 was successful from with organic growth in Adjusted EBITDA extend its reach into other regulated markets a technological perspective there were such as Portugal, Colombia and others.
of 44% after excluding acquisitions, challenges migrating all of the VIPs.
Changes were then made in Q2 2017 which has and an impressive 58% growth on a led to some improvement in KPIs and BINGO proforma basis, after considering all of the performance.
However, given that Bingo acquisitions during the period and their Following the acquisition of Bingo software is very much a UK business which is also historic underlying performance.
and services supplier ECM in October 2016 seasonal, management believes that the full the Bingo vertical saw a 47% increase in benefit of the changes made were offset revenue at constant currency in 2017.
As can be seen from the results, by exceptionally good weather combined TradeTech has delivered significant with the UK summer holidays.
Sun Bingo The Bingo vertical remains a key customer margin improvement of the underlying revenue improved towards the end of acquisition channel at the operator level.
business following efficiencies and cost the year with a successful promotion just Playtechs Bingo offering allows licensees reductions made toward the end of 2016 before Christmas, with the start of 2018 to offer seamless cross-sell and movement showing some continued momentum.
It is year and the beginning of 2017.
In addition, between channels and verticals, but more worth remembering that there is significant results in 2017 were negatively impacted importantly Bingo slot and Casino integrated operating leverage within the Sun Bingo by the crypto hype experienced in the content.
The integration of retail software contract due to minimum guarantees payable year, predominantly in Q4, resulting in a and services supplier ECM, onto the Playtech to News UK which means that as revenues Bingo platform has created an ecosystem total loss of $7.6 million from our top line, increase, the benefit will drop straight for licensees to retain players regardless affecting both the B2C segment as well through to the bottom line.
As stated above, of channel or vertical.
despite the improvement, the Sun Bingo integrated content, such as Tiki Paradise, contract remains challenging.
Playtech is allows operators to drive player traffic to REGULATION IN THE in discussions with News UK following a other verticals and importantly track the FINANCIAL TRADING SECTOR thorough analysis of the issues encountered behavioural analytics across those channels with the contract.
Post period end in January Playtech management and the Board 2018 Playtech announced it had launched the believe that TradeTech is well placed Revenue from other white-label and B2C popular online game Clover Rollover across to benefit from the potential regulatory contracts declined to 22.8 million.
128 Gala Bingo UK retail sites meaning the changes the industry could experience in game was now available online, in retail and 2018.
Management believe that TradeTech CASUAL on mobile.
has significant experience, governance Casual games continued to enjoy revenue procedures and balance sheet to continue growth driven by the ongoing success POKER to support regulation and remain both of the Narcos branded game.
Poker remains an important part of the commercial and compliant.
Our experience complete Playtech ONE product offering and of new regulatory frameworks learned in Playtech continues to offer the largest open the Gaming division prompted TradeTech and tappable poker network in the industry.
to be an early adopter of new regulation.
Although the wider online Poker market remains challenging Playtechs poker vertical On January 18 2018, as part of its call returned to growth in 2017 with revenue for evidence the European Securities increasing 7% at constant compared to and Markets Authority, ESMA, proposed 2016, this follows a consistent slowing of the decline in the last few years.
measures to restrict the marketing, distribution and sale of CFDs to retail clients.
19 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT While these are still proposals for changes These include our real time Trending in regulations, we believe TradeTech is now feature, Traders trends live well positioned in the market following disclosure per asset, Events & trade implementation of such proposals or financial calendar, Market consensus other changes as they may come into analysts integrated portal and more.
It is important to note that some of the proposed changes are already TRADETECH GROUP implemented as part of our existing B2B RESULTS business model, including negative In the B2B business 2017 also saw balance protection and restriction of significant growth on reported results, use of bonuses and other incentives excluding acquisitions and on a proforma for trading.
TradeTechs B2B segment is now servicing over $1 trillion in volume from MARKETS.
COM PERFORMANCE B2B customers, and over $1.3 trillion on Our B2C business operating our Markets.
a proforma basis after adding Alphas precom brand enjoyed significant growth acquisition volumes in 2017.
These results on both first-time depositors and active show a healthy link between revenues and customers, with 43% growth in actives volume, with a steady revenue generation and 93% in FTDs.
This fundamental on the back of increase in volume from BETBUDDY improvement and momentum in the customers from the three sub-segments ACQUISITION B2C business is driven by a significant of our B2B offering.
improvement in the cost per acquisition of $870 in 2017, on the back of continued TradeTech management believe these In October 2017 Playtech agreed the development of our automated marketing results demonstrate the execution of acquisition of Responsible Gambling software capabilities.
Playtechs B2B strategy to become specialist BetBuddy for an undisclosed fee.
The addition of BetBuddys machine learning the provider of choice to brokers in and Artificial Intelligence software into As noted above, the crypto hype in 2017 the financial trading industry.
The CFH Playtechs data driven IMS platform had a material impact on our B2C top line and TradeTech Alpha acquisitions will deliver an innovative Responsible performance, which together with very complimented our existing frontend and Gambling solution to operators globally.
low volatility on other asset classes in Q4 backend technology and enabled us to resulted in an overall underperforming deliver an end to end solution for brokers, Playtechs strategy is to acquire complementary fourth quarter.
However, it is important enabling them to enjoy a full suite of technology which extends its software and to acknowledge the steady growth in products from a unique trading platform services offering to the gambling industrys actives which we believe will continue and CRM systems, to liquidity control, leading operators.
The integration of in 2018 and which will be translated risk management capabilities, real time BetBuddys behavioural identification and into higher revenues and profits going risk applications and more.
TradeTechs modification software into Playtechs powerful IMS player management system will enable forward.
Outside the crypto hype strategy is to continue to establish its Playtech to continue to lead innovation in the effect and low Q4 volatility, volume has capabilities across the entire value chain delivery of Responsible Gambling products remained relatively stable, on the back in the financial trading sector.
of regulatory changes related to default leverage limitation and elimination of The integration will deliver an industry leading incentive bonuses introduced at the Responsible Gambling player management beginning of 2017.
Importantly 2017 saw platform and will give Playtech's licensees strong continuity in our relationships with the opportunity to offer their players a safer our B2C customers.
Approximately 62% environment in which to enjoy Playtechs of revenue was generated from existing Omni-channel products, features and customers onboarded prior to 2017, further functionality.
The acquisition will ensure the Playtech platform will be well placed to navigate strengthened by the fact that the majority Mor Weizer the continually evolving global regulatory of revenues are generated from customers Chief Executive Officer challenges around Responsible Gambling in trading for more than 1 year, with 28% from online and retail markets.
customers trading for more than 2 years.
22 February 2018 These measures reflect the continuous Playtech trialled Bet Buddys analytics software investment in improving the quality of earlier in 2017, using its algorithms to detect services we offer to our customers, with at risk behaviours.
The addition of the further development of decision support BetBuddy team and methodologies to Playtechs tools and capabilities to aide customers in data driven approach will allow Playtech to take identifying trading opportunities.
the next step in evolving its gambling content to ensure it is developed and deployed in a sustainable manner.
