STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report GROWING A RESPONSIBLE AND DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS 888s mission is, above all else, to provide its customers with a safe and secure environment in which to enjoy first-class online gaming entertainment.
Itai Frieberger Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to report that, in 2017, 888S MISSION: SAFE AND SECURE OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW 888 delivered continued progress ENTERTAINMENT while further strengthening its focus 888s mission is, above all else, to on responsible gaming and compliance, Introduction from CEO 08 provide its customers with a safe and growth in regulated markets and sports secure environment in which to enjoy Business Model 10 betting and technology leadership.
Progress has been achieved despite Strategy and progress 14 As a business, we never lose sight of increased regulatory focus on the our duty as a responsible operator and gambling industry, primarily in the UK, B2C Overview 16 our goal is to ensure that all those who as well as the decision to withdraw from B2B Overview 17 visit our sites can do so with confidence.
The Groups success Furthermore, we want to ensure and ability to drive upward trends to Identifying & Managing Our Risks 18 that those for whom our games are offset these headwinds reflects the not intended, notably underage and power of 888s technology, marketing vulnerable individuals, will not be and customer relationship management drawn into the gaming environment.
CRM as well as the benefits of the Doing this successfully and protecting Groups diversification strategy.
70% our customers is not just the right way to do business, but it is the only way Revenue from regulated and taxed markets 888 enjoys a unique position in in which 888 will grow and continue the global online gaming industry to succeed.
Operating responsibly and and I firmly believe we ended 2017 in full compliance with local regulations in a stronger position than ever is critical to long-term sustainable before.
We have a truly diversified 26% growth and, with the improvements presence across product verticals Revenue growth in regulated markets we have made during the year to our and geographies, a first-class and excluding the UK technology, processes and culture, scalable technology platform and I believe responsibility and compliance an outstanding, talented team.
is now developing into an advantage for 888.
In 2017, 888 underwent a licence review process with the UKGC, as detailed above and in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
This review process followed a technical failure whereby some customers who had requested to be self-excluded on one of 888s two gaming platforms were not successfully excluded from the other platform.
It was never 888s intention to benefit from this technical failure which was alerted to the UKGC by 888 and quickly rectified.
The UKGCs review process also highlighted a failure in the Groups interaction with an individual customer who exhibited excessive gambling behaviour.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 08 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM We were truly disappointed by and sorry Training our team to help them 888s business is based upon attracting for the historical failings highlighted identify and interact better with customers to its brands in a costby the UKGCs review process.
It goes vulnerable or potentially vulnerable effective manner and then retaining without saying that we took this customers: and those customers by offering an process incredibly seriously and 888s enjoyable and safe online gaming Enhancing our monitoring systems senior management team devoted experience.
To achieve this, 888 invests and processes so that potential during 2017, and continues to devote, in technology, marketing and product failures are detected at the earliest significant resources to assessing and leadership with sophisticated data possible time and are addressed.
delivering improvements to 888s analytics underpinning and guiding responsible gaming tools and processes.
the Groups approach to all areas These changes and improvements have Aided by the fact that we develop and of business development.
made 888 an even stronger operator own our gaming technology, we have than we were before.
Whilst this is an been able to quickly and effectively Continues overleaf area of continuous improvement and we make meaningful improvements for will not dilute our focus, the interaction customers.
These have included: with the UKGC during 2017 pushed 888 to enhance our responsible gambling Expanding and enhancing the technology, policies and mindset.
algorithms that 888 uses to analyse As a result, I firmly believe that today playing patterns so as to help identify we are even better placed to continue players who might be, or might to succeed in the industry environment become, vulnerable to problem that customers and regulators will gambling.
As a result, we can detect demand going forward.
more complex trends in customer behaviour and better identify 888 Holdings is structured into two potentially vulnerable players thereby lines of business: B2C, under the 888 enabling 888s trained team to interact brands, and B2B, conducted through earlier with customers who may need Dragonfish.
Through its B2C business, help and support: which accounted for 90% of Group Reassessing and lowering the revenue in 2017, 888 operates popular thresholds across certain metrics and trusted online gaming brands tracked by our system that, across four product verticals: Casino, when triggered, will lead to earlier Sport, Poker and Bingo.
Through customer interaction and the offer Dragonfish, the Group offers gaming of support from a trained member partners a comprehensive end-to-end of the 888 team: solution encompassing technology, Improving our technology to operations and advanced marketing significantly enhance our ability tools, as well as online best practices.
to identify customers who operate 888 owns and develops proprietary multiple accounts across 888s online gaming technology and platforms, thereby ensuring we associated platforms.
This provides the can more effectively self-exclude bedrock of the Groups success with the customers who may have chosen ability to develop and enhance our own to open multiple accounts: tools and solutions being a competitive advantage in such a dynamic and rapidly Enhancing our checks on customers changing industry.
Owning technology sources of funds to ensure that enables 888 to develop new and the deposits our customers make differentiated games and products, are legitimate: adapt to regulatory changes effectively and quickly respond to new opportunities.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 09 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report continued 888S BUSINESS MODEL HOW WE CREATE VALUE B2B Branded Agreed Contribution Partners share ofnet to Group revenue revenue Customer Customer loses keeps winnings B2C Customer Interaction Customer Customer wins recycles winnings 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 10 R E D U C I N G STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS T H E C O S T P E R P L E A U Y L E A R V A E C M Q I U T I - S I E T F I I O L N R CORPORATE.
COM OUR GROWTH STRATEGY Development of Driving margin Enhancing B2B partner of Continue to protect coreB2C brands growth through efficiencies choice through our customers and operational Dragonfish act responsibly efficiencies See page 14 for more about our Growth Strategy BUSINESS ACTIVITIES SAFE AND SECURE ENTERTAINMENT Our purpose Key drivers INFLUENCING FACTORS 5.
Maintaining our strong management leadership 888 takes its duty as a responsible andtrustedbrand operator very seriously and Underpinned by sophisticated A strong brand is a key advantage statistical models, 888 has takes comprehensive steps to in what is a competitive minimise fraud, problem gaming a unique understanding of global online gaming market.
its customers, enabling 888 to and eliminate minors from using 888s consistently innovative and deliver to customers personalised its services.
engaging brand is amongst the communications across most trusted and recognised in 9.
Cross-selling payment supports more than 2.
Innovative, driven marketing 888 is able to leverage the 35 payment methods in 18 888 is resolutely focused languages, both for desktop strength of the brands and on devising and delivering customer proposition in each of and on mobile tablet devices.
return on investment driven its four major product verticals marketing campaigns.
Dedicated VIP Support and, by using proven predictive Across 888s B2C brands there is 3.
Product innovation and modelling, cross-sell gaming dedicated VIP Support.
The role leadership entertainment to customers.
of the VIP Support teams is to The ability to successfully provide first-class support to 7.
Excellent customer support develop in-house proprietary First-class customer support high roller players and increase and innovative games on mobile is offered through telephone, their loyalty to 888. and desktop platforms help to email and online chat functions differentiate 888 from competitors.
to customers around the world 4.
A seamless customer experience in nine different languages.
888 delivers its gaming entertainment products seamlessly and responsively across mobile and desktop platforms.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 11 E Y A L P I N G C N R I S E A A S E I R N C G N F I I R S T T I M E D E P O S I T O R S STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report continued THE ONLINE GAMING CYCLE 888 employs an extensive team of highly trained and experienced businessanalyticsand data-mining professionals who have analysed  since 888s foundation.
888s highly trained workforce and its in 2017 are set out in the Corporate constantly evolving data and, internally generated know-how remain Responsibility Report on pages 32 to by applying robust statistical models major drivers of the Companys value, 37.
Teams across 888 from product and subject always to our responsible and 888 carefully manages and sustains development, to marketing, to customer gaming policies, influence the following these resources.
Details of actions taken support, leverage this extensive and factors in the online gaming cycle: 6.
Acquisition Return to cost driven 4.
DEPOSITS Central to 888s approach is an Effective marketing helps to attract Customers need to be able to enjoy unwavering focus on return to cost customers to 888s brands in the most a seamless, enjoyable journey from the driven marketing.
The Group continually cost-effective manner.
Strong levels moment they visit our websites through evolves its marketing techniques, of customer acquisition, measured to depositing into their accounts and both online and offline, to support its by increases in first time depositors, enjoying our games.
888s proprietary brands and increase customer loyalty.
is the fuel for 888s ongoing growth.
payment processing capabilities support The returns to cost of all marketing a wide variety of languages, methods campaigns are rigorously tested against and currencies and it is vital that we are strict criteria before being extended to able to offer fast, efficient and easy to their target markets.
This ensures that use payment processing with the most 888s marketing spend is both cost relevant payment methods identified efficient and effective.
and emphasised for different customers according to their market.
GAMING REVENUE Once 888 has acquired a customer, Ensuring that we continually offer a high By generating higher revenue, our we want to make sure that they quality product across our brands marketing teams are therefore able continue to enjoy their experience helps to increase customer activity and, to increase investment in campaigns consequently, life-time value with 888. with 888.
Factors behind this include to acquire more new customers and personalised communications, a broad still ensure that the business meets 888s ability to successfully develop range of relevant bonuses, and the its strict return to cost criteria.
new proprietary games and functionality early identification of potentially on mobile and desktop platforms helps churning players.
to differentiate 888 in the eyes of the customer.
We combine exclusive and high-quality in-house created games with third-party and branded content to ensure that we always offer the freshest and most enjoyable customer proposition.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 12 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report continued 888S STRATEGY AND PROGRESS 888 has a clear strategy for sustainable growth and to deliver long-term value for all stakeholders.
This is based upon exploiting the Groups organic potential as well asevaluating attractive M&A opportunities.
During 2017 we continued to make strong progress with our transition to becoming a fully regulated business that is diversified across products and geographic markets: DEVELOPMENT OF CORE B2C BRANDS EXPANSION IN REGULATED MARKETS We continue to develop our B2C brands Sport revenue up 45%: 888s focus is on driving growth in to ensure that we offer customers Continued investment in marketing markets where there is a sustainable the most enjoyable online gaming and brand positioning driving regulatory framework for online gaming entertainment possible.
customer recognition of 888sport as and where we are able to benefit a credible sports betting brand across from marketing opportunities for our 888 has established leading brands in regulated markets brands.
888 has a proven track record in Casino, Poker and Bingo as well as the successfully and efficiently launching and Average revenue per Sport player fast-growing and rapidly developing growing in attractive regulated markets.
increased by 45%: active days per 888sport.
sport player increased 6% Revenue from regulated and taxed Improving and expanding customer B2C revenue growth continues to be markets comprised 70% of Group offer with live events comprising driven byCasino, Sport and regulated revenue 2016: 71% approximately 70% of bet volume territories witha6%increase Diversification strategy continues with compared to 2016: the UK now representing 37% of Group Poker revenue decreased 8%: 8% increase in B2C revenue at revenue, down from 43% in 2016 Revenue decrease by just 1% at constant currency and when adjusted constant currency and when adjusted Strategic decision to withdraw from for the Groups withdrawal from for Groups withdrawal from certain certain markets during the year certain markets markets, demonstrating the resilience Revenue from Spain and Italy, 15% increase outside the UK of the brand and its continued appeal the Groups two fastest growing 12.5% CAGR since 2010 to recreational players regulated markets, increased by 34% Increase in average active days per Mobile share reached 17% of Poker Spain expanded to represent 12% player and average revenue per player revenue 2016: 14% and 29% of of Group revenue Poker revenue in the UK 2016: 25% Poker launched in Italy at the Casino revenue increased 4% reflecting product development beginning of 2018 post year-end reflecting continued focus on focused on mobile devices regulated markets: Average active days per player and Casino revenue increased 17% outside average revenue per player each the UK increased more than 20% 18% increase in average active days per Casino player reflecting outstanding Bingo revenue decreased 6%: CRM capabilities Decrease was only 1% at constant currency, in part reflecting successful bonus optimisation efforts that reduced activity from unprofitable bonus abusers Mobile revenue continued to increase across core gaming verticals Casino, 45% 34% Poker, Bingo, Sports, increasing to Revenue growth from Spain and Italy YOY Sport revenue growth YOY 70% of UK B2C revenue 2016: 60% Against comparable 2016 data.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 14 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM CONTINUE TO PROTECT OUR CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES, COMMUNITY AND ACT B2B THROUGH DRAGONFISH ENHANCING EFFICIENCIES RESPONSIBLY We will continue to invest in and develop Management remain steadfastly focused The Group is constantly mindful of its our B2B offer to establish Dragonfish as on maximising operational efficiencies, social responsibilities, which includes the partner of choice in both regulated including by constantly developing and protecting our customers and ensuring and newly regulating markets.
refining marketing approaches and they enjoy a truly satisfying experience.
B2B Revenue down 9%: 888 continues to invest resources Revenue decreased by 5% at Revised senior management structure in caring for our customers, protecting constant currency to support 888s continued growth the vulnerable, and ensuring that with the appointment of Itai Pazner we continue to entertain those who Revenue reduction reflects: as COO choose to play with 888.
Significant reduction of marketing by one of our B2B partners.
Marketing ratio decreased to 30% of 888 has policies in place to prevent Excluding this partner, overall B2B revenue 2016: 33% reflecting efficient bribery and corruption, promote the Revenue would have increased and targeted marketing on growth well-being and diversity of its employees compared to previous year areas including regulated markets, and prevent violations of human rights in Casino and Sport Bonus optimisation efforts its supply chain.
888 periodically reviews reducing activity from unprofitable Overall cost ratio reduced to 81% the Groups environmental impact, bonus abusers of revenue 2016: 83% however notes that as an online business 30 new skins added to the Dragonfish Cost ratio reductions achieved despite this is limited, and therefore has not Bingo network increased gaming tax burden adopted a formal policy at this stage.
12 of these new skins launched on the Casino Flex platform Significant focus on developing and enhancing 888s responsibility tools and processes during the year to: better identify vulnerable or potentially vulnerable players better identify customers with multiple accounts: and check customer source of funds.
Investment in training our team to help them identify and interact better with vulnerable or potentially vulnerable customers.
Due diligence processes are in place with regard to the Companys anti-bribery policy and anti-modern 30 slavery policy.
Particular focus is New skins added to Dragonfish Bingo network given to bribery risks involved in dealings with foreign government officials and brokers, and to human slavery risks in respect of service providers to the Groups offices in less developed countries.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report continued OUR B2C BRANDS: PRODUCT OUR OFFER HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE 1.
Casino 888casino is one of the most recognised Online casinos replicate the real-life casino and longest standing online casino brands experience with players playing against the in the market, and the winner of numerous house across online versions of classic casino prestigious awards.
table games such as roulette and blackjack as well as slot and video games.
In these games, 888casino is known for its generous jackpot the house has a statistical advantage or edge.
prizes and aims to provide the most enjoyable online experience available by combining Casino gaming revenue is represented by the exclusive in-house developed games alongside difference between the amounts of bets placed branded video slots and live Casino games, by customers less amounts won.
which offer high-quality video streamed casino games with a range of professional dealers.
Poker 888poker is a multi-award-winning poker In online poker, the operator acts as the virtual destination, offering a first-class poker host for the game and provides a platform that environment that enables players of all abilities enables customers to play various forms of to enjoy the games of their choice alongside poker against each other.
Formats and features include BLAST combining gaming with Poker revenue represents the commission poker, allowing players to compete for a randomly or rake charged from each poker hand in drawn prize pool of up to 10,000 times the ring games, and entry fees for participation players buy-in in a time-limited game.
888poker offers Texas Holdem, Omaha HiLo, 7 Card Stud and other poker variations in Pot Limit, Fixed Limit and No Limit formats.
Bingo 888s leading bingo brands each have engaging As with traditional bingo halls, online bingo rooms themes, a variety of games and a strong sense offer customers the chance of winning prizes by of community, replicating the experience of purchasing tickets and playing their bingo format traditional bingo halls.
The Groups bingo of choice.
brands also benefit from an extensive range of 888-developed slot games, casino games Bingo online gaming revenue is represented by and scratch cards that are offered alongside the difference between the amounts of tickets traditional bingo formats.
purchased by customers less amounts won.
888s portfolio of brands includes 888 Ladies and Wink bingo.
Sport 888sport is a fast-growing sports betting Sportsbook online gaming revenue comprises destination.
At the heart of the 888sport offer bets placed less pay-outs to customers.
is genuine passion for sport, with thousands of live and pre-event betting markets on offer 888 pays a share of net gaming revenue to across hundreds of events, from the obvious its third-party sports betting platform provider.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM B2B DRAGONFISH, THE PARTNER OF CHOICE Under its Dragonfish arm, the Group offers gaming partners a comprehensive end-to-end solution, encompassing technology, operations and advanced marketing tools, as well as online best practices Drawing on two decades of 888s track 888s B2B business model is based on an Dragonfish 888 is also the only provider record and reputation in online gaming, agreed share of the revenue generated of poker and casino solutions across all the Dragonfish team is uniquely placed by its gaming partners.
three regulated US states New Jersey, to support its partners and deliver Nevada and Delaware.
Dragonfish is home to the worlds leading bingo network, providing bingo Dragonfish has powered some of the Dragonfishs flexible platform and tools software to some of the biggest names most prominent gaming brands in have been developed and certified in bingo.
Dragonfish offers its partners this space, such as Foxy Bingo, Moon to meet the rigorous regulatory a wide range of more than 400 games, Games, Costa Bingo and World Series requirements of the different including video slots, progressive Of Poker WSOP.
jurisdictions in which its partner operate.
jackpots, Live Dealer, video poker, table games and branded titles.
Marketing Dragonfish works and supports its partners, ever improving marketing effectiveness and value 0 maximisation.
360 multi-channel marketing includes a full suite of CRM services.
Through utilisation of our cutting-edge back office tools, our CRM teams drive partners forward through increased conversion, retention and customer lifetime value.
Technology The Dragonfish Responsible Gaming technology and product We believe our primary stack was developed and responsibility is to provide built over 20 years through its the best online gaming parent 888s online track record.
Its casino, poker and bingo products However, we also acknowledge the have encompassed both in-house potential danger that gaming and third-party content, while may pose for a small minority its proprietary back office of people.
Therefore, we technology has been driving strive and are committed growth in the business for excellence in our using industryresponsible gaming leading CRM and policy and ethical analytical tools conduct.
Operations Dragonfishs turn-key solution offers 24 7 support, risk and fraud management from various global sites, utilising multiple communication channels that serve as the back bone to its award-winning proposition, leveraging 20 years of online operational excellence.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 17 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report continued IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS The Board acknowledges that there is no return without risk.
However, key risks must be identified, evaluated and where possible quantified in order for the Board to rationally determine how to harness risk to generate optimal return.
The Board acts in accordance with a bad news and near miss incidents, it is responsible for 888s risk Risk Management Policy, which aims to with a willingness to constantly learn management systems and for explicitly identify and evaluate key risks and improve.
The Board has also reviewing their effectiveness: underlying its core business strategy adopted a Reporting and Escalation there is an on-going process for and standardise the approach to risk Procedure to ensure timely reporting identifying, evaluating and managing prioritisation and management across of internal reportable events including the principal risks faced by 888: 888s operations.
This in turn means bugs, technical failures, information the systems have been in place during that effective controls can be put in security malfunctions and marketing 2017 and up to the date of approval of place to ensure 888 is able to manage and other operational incidents the Annual Report and Accounts: and its operations effectively now and into which may affect customers.
they are regularly reviewed by the the future.
888s risk register is updated Board.
periodically and regular discussions are The Board considers that 888 complies held at Board and management level of with the requirements of the Financial Please see page 19 for further details the role of risk in 888s business.
Reporting Councils Guidance on of the review conducted in 2017.
Risk Management, Internal Control 888s culture emphasises the need for and Related Financial and Business employees to take responsibility for Reporting dated September 2014, managing the risks in their own areas and specifically confirms that: and to transparently and timely report RISK APPETITE Risk is a high priority for the Board likelihood and appetite considerations.
are allocated to the risks.
The Board and effective risk management is an Risk is managed across the Group in reviewed and approved the following integral part of the way we conduct our the context of overall risk appetite and risk appetite statement: business on a daily basis.
The Board during 2017 the Board considered risk factors into the risk assessment impact, appetite to ensure adequate resources Category of risk Tolerance Risk parameters Strategic Medium During development and implementation of new propositions and assessing new opportunities including potential transactions, we are prepared to accept medium risks that support our pursuit of growth.
Operational Low to medium When operating within our business, we have a low to medium tolerance for risk.
We will take a cautious approach to risk within our operations, but consider that certain risks will be taken in order to achieve our strategic objectives and maintain our competitive position.
Financial Low We consider that robust financial controls are necessary to manage our business effectively.
All of our operating processes are based around policies and procedures that minimise the risk of a loss of financial control.
Compliance Extremely low We have an extremely low to zero tolerance when complying with laws and regulations that relate to bribery, corruption and antimoney laundering.
We have controls in place that are designed to mitigate these risks, and detailed and tested procedures in place for dealing with these types of scenarios when they arise.
We are particularly sensitive to compliance risks in our key regulated markets including the UK.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 18 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM 888 faces the following significant risks: KEY OF CHANGE Increased Decreased Remained stable 1.
REGULATORY RISK Change The risk: What happened in 2017: The regulatory framework of online gaming is dynamic The UKGCs licence review served as a catalyst for a comprehensive review of 888s compliance, responsible and complex.
Change in the regulatory regime in a specific jurisdiction can have a material adverse effect gaming systems, Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Client checking processes, marketing practices and on business volume and financial performance in that data protection systems, as well as for implementing the jurisdiction.
In addition, a number of jurisdictions organisational changes described above in order to clarify have regulated online gaming, and in several of those responsibilities and reporting lines in critical areas, as jurisdictions 888 either holds a licence or applied to detailed more fully in the CEOs Strategic Report on page obtain one.
However, in some cases, lack of clarity in 08, the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 to the regulations, or conflicting legislative and regulatory 37 and in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
developments, mean that 888 may risk failing to obtain Enforcement action in the UK online gaming market has an appropriate licence, having existing licences adversely been declared a priority, with the UKGC taking a proactive affected, or being subject to other regulatory sanctions, role to drive change and the UK Competition and Markets including internet service provider blocking, payments Authority CMA investigating possible violations of blocking, black-listing and fines.
Furthermore, legal consumer rights in the gaming industry.
In Germany, the and other action may be taken by incumbent gaming Company was served on 6 March 2018 with a detailed providers in jurisdictions which are seeking to regulate ruling of the German Federal Administrative Court in online gaming, in an attempt to frustrate the grant of a case to which a subsidiary of the Group was a party, online gaming licences to 888.
Finally, changes to either pertaining to a prohibition order which prohibits offering the regulatory framework or enforcement policy relating online gaming services in the state of Baden Wrttemberg.
to online gaming in certain markets may effectively The ruling was founded on a finding of law contrary to force the Company out of certain markets where it previous EU and German court rulings, upholding the currently operates.
current German ban of remote casino and restricting remote sports betting activity, rendering the offering of Relevance to strategy: online gaming in Germany in general as prohibited under Compliance with regulatory requirements and the the German Inter-State Gambling Treaty.
The Group has maintenance of regulatory relationships in multiple been advised that this ruling could result in increased jurisdictions is key to maintaining 888s online gaming enforcement measures in connection with the provision of licences which are critical to the operation and growth its services to German customers.
Furthermore, in recent of its online gaming business.
In addition, 888 may months, other providers in the online and land-based be exposed to claims in jurisdictions which do not sectors have withdrawn from the German online gaming regulate online gaming, seeking to block access to 888s market, and recently, payment institutions facilitating offering of players located in such jurisdiction.
A robust approximately 9% of deposits for the Group in Germany understanding of the legal and regulatory position in key in 2017 have decided to cease providing certain services locations worldwide is crucial to mitigating this risk.
with respect to the German online gaming market.
Certain other payment institutions have notified the Group that they are considering their position.
As a result How the risk is managed: of these developments, the Company, together with its 888 manages its regulatory risk by routinely consulting legal counsel, is considering potential courses of action, with legal advisers in various jurisdictions where its which may include a petition to the German Federal services are marketed or which generate significant Constitutional Court and is assessing the status and Group revenue.
Furthermore, 888 obtains frequent breadth of its offerings in the German market.
In Canada, and routine updates regarding changes in the law the Groups fifth largest market, the anticipated request that may be applicable to its operations, working with for proposal RFP process by Loto-Qubec to invite local counsel to assess the impact of any changes on private companies to provide it with remote gambling its operations.
888 constantly adapts and moderates services has yet to come to fruition.
Similar initiatives its services to comply with legal and regulatory that arose in Canada in previous years, as well as lack of requirements.
888 has now also implemented liberalisation efforts in the Canadian remote gambling organisational changes in order to strengthen regulatory market, suggest that future efforts to restrict offering of compliance oversight, as well as to improve co-operation online gambling services through local monopolies are a between the different departments and streamline valid possibility.
In addition, the applicability of Canadian processes of settling any conflicts between them, penal law to offshore remote gambling operators remains ensuring that 888s regulatory requirements and duty untested, with no enforcement action being taken against to uphold the licensing objectives always take priority such operators.
Regulatory developments in Germany and over commercial interests.
In 2017, 888 also invested Canada may present new opportunities for the Group, but significant additional resources, well beyond what may conversely make it harder or impossible for the Group was applicable in the past, in regulatory compliance to offer its services there.
The latter change could have a measures.
Finally, 888 blocks players from certain material adverse impact on the Groups revenues.
During blocked jurisdictions using multiple technological 2017, 888 took the decision to withdraw from certain methods as appropriate.
markets where changes to the markets regulatory framework or enforcement policy were viewed as potentially of material adverse effect on business volume and financial performance.
In the Netherlands, the regulator has put in place stricter rules aimed at restricting operators from targeting the local market.
Finally, Russian authorities approved a ban prohibiting the carrying out of transactions relating to foreign operators of online gambling to be implemented in mid-2018.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 19 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report continued 2.
BREXIT-RELATED RISKS Change The risk: How the risk is managed: The status of Gibraltar as a result of Brexit remains 888 is not able to control political changes of this unclear.
Recent indications by the European Union have nature, however it is proceeding with its backup plan suggested that Spain would be granted a veto right with of obtaining a gaming licence in Malta and establishing respect to the application to Gibraltar of transitional a server farm in Ireland so that it can continue to serve arrangements agreed with the United Kingdom, which European markets with no disruption to its business.
increases the risk of a hard Brexit for Gibraltar.
If 888 were to remain registered, licensed and operating What happened in 2017: in Gibraltar in these circumstances, its ability to rely The UK formally notified the EU of its intention to on EU freedom of services establishment principles withdraw in March 2017, which commenced a negotiation in supplying its services within the EU will be limited: period which will conclude in March 2019 unless all furthermore, it may become ineligible to continue to parties to the negotiations agree otherwise with the hold regulatory licences in certain EU jurisdictions.
United Kingdom ceasing to be a member of the EU.
Brexit may also adversely impact economic and market conditions in the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe.
Relevance to strategy: The ability to rely on EU principles underpins 888s regulatory strategy regarding major EU markets.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND CYBER RISKS In the event of loss of functionality of 888s critical services, Change The risk: IT systems may be impacted by unauthorised access, the business can be fully recovered through the resources available at the disaster recovery site.
In order to minimise cyber-attacks, DDoS Distributed Denial of Service attacks, theft or misuse of data by internal or external dependence on telecommunication service providers, 888 invests in network infrastructure redundancies whilst parties, or disrupted by increases in usage, human error, natural hazards or disasters or other events.
Cyberregularly reviewing its service providers.
888 has two Internet service providers in Gibraltar in order to minimise attack and data theft incidents may expose 888 to ransom demands and costs of repairing physical and reliance on one provider.
As a part of its monitoring system, 888 deploys set user experience tests which reputational damage.
Failure of IT systems, infrastructure or telecommunications third-party infrastructure may measure performance from different locations around the world.
Network-related performance issues are addressed cause significant cost and disruption to the business and harm revenues.
Lengthy down-time of the site including by rerouting traffic using different routes or providers.
888 operates a 24 7 Network Operations Centre NOC.
in transitioning to activated disaster recovery servers could also cause 888 to breach regulatory obligations.
The NOCs role is to conduct real time monitoring of production activities using state-of-the-art systems.
These systems are designed to identify and provide alerts Relevance to strategy: regarding problems related to systems, key business As an online B2C and B2B business, the integrity of indicators and issues surrounding customer usability 888s IT infrastructure is crucial to the supply of its experience.
The IT environment tracks changes, incidents offerings and compliance with its regulatory obligations and service level agreement key performance indicators in and to the maintenance of customer loyalty.
order to ensure that client experience is consistent and well managed.
As part of these procedures, capacity planning How the risk is managed: takes place and infrastructure is built accordingly.
Cutting-edge technologies and procedures are System-wide availability and business-level availability implemented throughout 888s technology operations is measured and logged in the IT information systems.
and designed to protect its networks from malicious attacks and other such risks.
These measures include What happened in 2017: traffic filtering, anti-DDoS devices and obtaining antiAt 888, IT security is deeply embedded within the virus protection from leading vendors.
Physical and organisation, and security projects are implemented on logical network segmentation is also used to isolate and a constant ongoing basis.
Awareness training is carried protect 888s networks and restrict malicious activities.
out for Group personnel at all office locations by the The IT environment is audited by independent auditors, Chief Information Security Officer.
Software development such as PCI DSS security audit and eCOGRA audit.
personnel are trained in IT security and computerised These audits form part of 888s approach to ensuring systems monitor coding vulnerabilities in real time proper IT procedures and a high level of security.
In order and provide timely notifications to management.
to ensure systems are protected properly and effectively, Various IT security projects were implemented by 888s external security scans and assessments are carried out IT Department under the guidance of its IT Security on a regular basis.
888 has a disaster recovery site to Committee.
888 continued to undergo regular IT security ensure full recovery in the event of disaster.
All critical audits, including reviews by the internal IT team and data is replicated to the disaster recovery site and stored external audits by gaming regulators.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 20 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM KEY OF CHANGE Increased Decreased Remained stable 4.
TAXATION RISK Change The risk: Relevance to strategy: Heightened attention continues to be given to matters In addition to the financial consequences of a challenge of cross-border taxation, as the G20 OECD Base to 888s tax structure, tax compliance and being Erosion and Profit Shifting project has shifted into seen to be paying the right amount of tax has its implementation phase.
On 30 November 2017, the become a serious reputational issue as well as being General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union a regulatory compliance issue.
As such, it is crucial adopted conclusions on Responding to the challenges that 888 has a solid basis for its tax positions taken of taxation of profits of the digital economy, supporting in relevant jurisdictions.
the adoption of virtual permanent establishment criteria as well as the quick introduction of interim How the risk is managed: measures to tax the digital economy, including a 888 aims to ensure that each legal entity within its targeted turnover-based equalisation tax and potentially Group is a tax resident of the jurisdiction in which it is an EU-wide advertising tax.
In the UK, HM Treasury incorporated and has no taxable presence in any other published a position paper raising proposals to jurisdiction.
In addition, 888 consults with tax advisers implement new taxation measures with respect to UK not only in jurisdictions in which its Group companies user-generated value of digital economy companies, are incorporated and in which it has personnel, but also whilst past proposals regarding imposition in the UK in major markets in which it has customers, in order of use and enjoyment VAT rules with respect to UKto comply with its legal obligations whilst taking facing advertising have not materially progressed.
The such action as it is necessary to prevent the improper likelihood of scrutiny of tax practices by tax authorities imposition of unlawful or double taxation.
in relevant jurisdictions and the aggressiveness of tax authorities continues to increase, with 888 recording What happened in 2017: a provision of US$ 45.3 million EUR 39.6 million in 888 continues to engage with tax authorities and 2017 consolidated income statement 2016: EUR nil obtain legal advice in order to regularise its tax position in connection with an inquiry from the tax authorities and mitigate exposures.
As regards the inquiry in in Germany about services provided prior to 2015 in Germany regarding VAT, 888 obtained a thorough legal the context of which 888 provided information, in assessment and considered the tax position in respect of order to fulfil its statutory assistance and information each service supplied and has taken a cautious approach obligations, to enable the appropriate tax authorities to by recording a provision in its accounts with respect form their own view regarding the likelihood of a VAT of some of these services.
However, the Company has liability.
A finding of taxable presence of the Group in reserved its position and all legal rights, based on legal one or more jurisdictions including pursuant to revised advice received.
interpretations of the permanent establishment concept as mentioned above, a transfer pricing adjustment with respect to attribution of profit to such jurisdiction s, or imposition of another form of tax as mentioned above, may have a substantial impact on the amount of tax and VAT paid by 888 or require significant payments by 888 in respect of historical tax liabilities.
888s effective tax burden also increases due to the imposition or increase of gaming duty in markets in which the group has customers, including the new taxation of free plays in the UK.
The Companys Israeli subsidiary entered into an Assessment Agreement with the Israeli Tax Authority in 2016, in which the subsidiarys transfer pricing remuneration was agreed with regard to tax years ending in 2015.
The Company believes that the remuneration attributed for tax purposes to its Israeli subsidiary complies with the arms length standard, and therefore continues to rely on the transfer pricing agreement with regard to tax years following 2015, however the agreement has not been renewed.
As such, and in light of the developments in taxation rules internationally, including in the field of transfer pricing pursuant to which new methodologies are gaining prominence, the Israeli Tax Authority may seek to increase the level of remuneration attributed to the Israeli subsidiary for tax purposes commencing from the 2016 tax year, which could have material financial consequences to the Company.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report continued 5.
DATA PROTECTION RISK Change The risk: How the risk is managed: 888 processes a large quantity of personal customer 888 is undergoing a robust and risk-oriented GDPRdata, including sensitive data such as name, address, preparation project, pursuant to a designated GDPR age, bank details and gaming betting history.
Such data Gap Analysis that was prepared for that purpose in could be wrongfully accessed or used by employees, coordination with its legal advisers.
customers, suppliers or third parties, or lost, disclosed or improperly processed in breach of data protection What happened in 2017: regulations.
In particular, the European General Data 888 has commenced a process of mapping the personal Protection Regulation GDPR will enter into force data life-cycle within the organisation, including how in May 2018 and will have a significant effect on the personal data of EU customers and EU employees is Companys privacy and data protection practices, as it collected, stored, secured and shared with third parties.
introduces various changes to how personal information In addition, 888 has appointed a designated internal should be collected, maintained, processed and secured.
Data Protection Officer and is preparing policies and Non-compliance with the GDPR may result in fines of procedures on relevant matters including exercising user up to 20 million or 4% of the Companys annual global rights and data retention, as well as reviewing necessary turnover, and the Company will be particularly exposed product and IT implementation.
888 is also putting in to enforcement action in light of the amount of customer place adequate contractual measures with respect to data it holds and processes.
The Company could also sharing data with third parties, reviewing its privacy be subject to private litigation and loss of customer policy and other customer notifications and reviewing goodwill and confidence.
the current data security framework.
Treated in 2017 as a separate risk from the Information Technology Relevance to strategy: and Cyber risk in which the Data Protection risk had previously The holding and processing of sensitive data in a lawful been included.
and robust manner is central to 888s analytics-based business strategy.
As an online B2C business, the integrity of 888s data protection framework is crucial to the supply of its offerings, compliance with its regulatory obligations and maintenance of the impressive customer loyalty with which 888 is entrusted.
REPUTATIONAL RISK Change The risk: How the risk is managed: The reputation of 888 is affected by the profile of both In 2017, 888 devoted even more resources to putting other online gaming and betting operators, as well as in place prevention measures coupled with strict the gaming and betting industry as a whole.
In addition internal procedures to protect customers, and monitor to the UKGC licence review that 888 underwent in 2017, and update their procedures to ensure that minors are the UKGC has since announced that it is considering unable to access their gaming sites.
Staff are trained five licence reviews of five other companies in the to provide a safe gaming experience to customers and online gaming industry and has written to a further to recognise and take appropriate actions if they identify 12 online casino operators to raise concerns about compulsive or underage activity.
888 also complies with the sectors approach to anti-money laundering and eCOGRA guidelines to protect customers.
There is a perception that minors to professional help agencies are provided on 888s real and vulnerable players are not adequately protected.
money gaming sites, and 888 has a dedicated website There could also be claims for damages due to which provides information regarding responsible compulsive gambling.
It is also difficult to ensure that gaming.
Players can also limit their play pattern or affiliate marketers ethically source reliable data for request to be self-excluded.
888 furthermore directly marketing purposes such that advertising codes can or via industry bodies seeks to ensure that legislators be strictly adhered to and only appropriate age groups and regulators are provided with accurate and useful or demographics are targeted and that B2B partners information regarding protections against problem engage solely in compliant marketing practices.
Relevance to strategy: What happened in 2017: Underage and problem gaming are risks associated with Action taken in 2017 is set out above under Regulatory an online gaming business, and ensuring compliance risk.
In addition, 888 carried out a general review of all with regulatory requirements for the protection of its websites and those of its B2B partners in light of the vulnerable people is critical to maintaining 888s UK Advertising Standards Authority and Committees online gaming licences.
of Advertising Practices review of gaming industry practices, with a view to ensuring that content that may be particularly appealing to children, whether specific games or general creative elements on the site, have been removed or made accessible only after a robust age verification process has been completed.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 22 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM KEY OF CHANGE Increased Decreased Remained stable 7.
PARTNERSHIP RISK Change The risk: How the risk is managed: 888 has in recent years rationalised its B2B contracts to Whilst 888 generally protects itself contractually in focus on fewer, higher-value contracts.
This means that this respect, it is often not commercially practicable to any termination or reduction of volume under existing compel B2B partners to continue utilising the Dragonfish B2B contracts would have a more severe impact on 888. platform in the long-term.
The main method of mitigation is therefore to maintain commercial relevance in terms of the functionality and technology of the B2B platform Relevance to strategy: offered, competitive pricing, maintaining an ongoing B2B is a material part of 888s business.
888s key B2B relationship with B2B partners, and ensuring that 888 contracts in terms of financial impact are its major bingo has a good understanding of the needs of its B2B B2B contracts: in addition, its US B2B contracts have partners and their owners.
strategic importance for the longer term.
What happened in 2017: During the year, 888 maintained its ongoing dialogue with major B2B partners, with a view to continued renewal of contracts aligned with 888s strategy.
However, some of these partners now own their own technological platforms and may migrate their businesses to such platforms, and therefore some of 888s major B2B contracts may not be renewed in the near term.
The Strategic Report, from pages 08 to 23, was reviewed, approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 20 March 2018.
Itai Frieberger Chief Executive Officer 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 23
