PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 04 Chief Executive Officers review Delivering growth efficiently into the future The Group delivered a solid performance Successfully completing our three year in the year to 31 May 2017 with our reported profit before tax slightly ahead SAP business transformation project of the prior year despite a challenging macroenvironment, particularly in the on time has been a huge achievement, Groups largest market of Nigeria.
helping us to deliver future growth.
The results have been underpinned by a robust performance from the UKs washing and bathing and Beauty divisions, combined with good growth momentum in Indonesia and relatively good trading in Nigeria, despite a year-on-year currency devaluation andlack of liquidity.
It is particularly pleasing to see that brand shares have either been held or grown in all of the Groups main markets and categories.
In line with our strategy to keep our brands alive and relevant toconsumers, this year we have seen significant brand renovation.
Activities included the global refresh of the Groups largest brand Imperial Leather and a relaunch of the Cussons Kids range in Indonesia.
Innovative new products have also been created including a new sub-brand within the Beauty division, Being by Sanctuary Spa, which is specifically targeting the millennial consumer.
Our renovation strategy keeps our brands alive and relevant to our international consumers, helping us to hold and grow brand shares in all of the Groups main markets and categories.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 05 As a Group we continue to focus on Transformation delivering sustainable value.
I believe This year a huge achievement for the that we have built a solid platform for Group has been the successful on-time future sustainable growth, by leveraging completion of our three year project our flair for innovation to help us to toimplement a standard SAP solution, compete within challenging markets which is now up and running across andby drawing on our CAN DO values all of our markets.
This marks an and experience.
important milestone in delivering our transformation agenda and positions The Groups balance sheet remains strong theGroup well to deliver growth into and we remain open to growing our the future.
business through acquisition and taking advantage of the right development Margin improvement opportunities as they arise.
To mitigate the largely currency related increases in raw material costs we have implemented margin improvement Alex Kanellis initiatives throughout the Groups supply Chief Executive Officer chain.
Overall, there has been a tight 25 July 2017 control of overheads to ensure the Groups cost base is optimised for the challenging market trading conditions that are likely to persist.
