SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Chief Executives Review.
The brand innovation through launching the Superdry Sport collection has been received positively by our customers and delivered immediate incremental sales, with extensive opportunities for the future.
Insight tells us that sportswear and ath-leisure fits perfectly with our brand image and is a future worldwide growth market for both the mens and womens sectors.
Euan Sutherland Chief Executive Officer 6 July 2017 www.
co. uk 16 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance The Wholesale division delivered growth of 43% fuelled by material Financial year 2017 summary growth in the brands franchise network, range enhancements and Our success in The articulation of a clear four pillar strategy in March 2015 enabled Financial the final elements of the process improvements commenced in the Statements an organisation-wide focus on the consistent delivery of the key previous financial year.
long-term opportunities that will establish Superdry as a global financial year 2017 lifestyle brand.
We have made significant progress in the past two Our development markets in North America and China continue to years with some of our key achievements summarised on pages progress in line with their respective plans.
The break-even position has been achieved 6 to 7.
SuperGroup remains an opportunity rich organisation and delivered in the Groups North American operations was achieved in we are confident in the continued delivery of sustainable revenue our second year of ownership in line with our acquisition plan.
and profit growth supported by continued investment in people, by the continual Underlying profit growth of 18% reflects continued investment in processes and infrastructure.
those two development markets and growth infrastructure together improvement of our Our success in financial year 2017 has been achieved by the with one-off migration costs incurred as part of the set-up of our continual improvement of our core product ranges and introducing two new distribution centres.
Our growth plan across geographies, new categories to excite, inspire and enhance the brands relevance.
core product ranges channels and categories will further reduce our reliance on any The consistency of our revenue performance has been pleasing with single operating segment and during the next two years we similar levels of growth achieved in each half-year and positive likeanticipate that we will leverage our investments as we continue and introducing for-like growth achieved in all channels: Retail, E-commerce, which to grow our revenues and deliver improvements to our Design to continues to deliver market leading growth, and Wholesale.
new categories to excite, inspire and enhance the brands relevance.
co. uk 17 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Embed.
Our brand values for long-term sustainable growth.
People Product Progression Passion Doing the right The ongoing Stay grounded Always keep the thing for our creation of iconic and innovate passion, energy and Superdry family products like mad enthusiasm that customers and created the brand team www.
co. uk 18 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Embedding our brand values is a key element to realising our We are committed to providing a compelling multi-channel ambition to become a global lifestyle brand.
The Superdry brand experience for our customers and firmly believe that the brands Innovative, British, Financial purpose defines the reason for being, creates a clear and concise potential will be optimised through a combination of shopping Statements brand story and a brand strategy that is relevant and actionable.
Recognising the need to continually premium lifestyle Group-wide communication ensures that all colleagues become develop the brand experience in-store, during the year we opened brand ambassadors through a real understanding, appreciation and two trial stores that were designed to introduce a number of new brand with global awareness for what Superdry stands for.
concepts to the store: to project better the wider product offer, convey authority in our core ranges such as graphic t-shirts, A key element of the learning and development focus in the year has increase range intensity while increasing circulation space, and appeal.
been the roll-out to 1,700 store based colleagues of a Sales and improve the use of technology.
This programme serves to combine our colleagues passion for Superdry with detailed product knowledge in Commercially the updated new store format targets improvements order to improve customer experience and drive sales.
to sales density while also reducing the capital and operating costs of new and refurbished stores.
The first two trial stores located in Colleague engagement levels are measured annually and we Manchesters Arndale centre and White City in London were of continue to see positive year-on-year progress in both response differing sizes: and tested varying levels of re-fit expenditure.
The levels and the key measures of Trust and Engagement.
We continue trading performances in both stores remain strong with uplifts in to invest in a number of initiatives targeted to address the specific like-for-like sales of 20% and 10% respectively and have provided points raised by colleagues.
These include wider employment and us with the confidence to undertake a roll-out refurbishment progression opportunities through our participation in the National programme, starting with ten stores in the UK in financial year 2018.
Apprenticeship scheme and ways to share in the Groups success The concepts developed in the trial stores are also being introduced through Save As You Earn SAYE and Buy As You Earn BAYE into all new store openings.
From a product perspective, collecting customer and market data is key in enabling us to improve the customer experience by embedding customer insight into our ongoing range and category development processes.
co. uk 19 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Enable.
Future growth through investment in people, systems and infrastructure.
co. uk 20 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Strengthening our teams Infrastructure development As we optimise the Our investment in people over the last three years has developed Investment in infrastructure to support the growth and development Financial Statements greater capability within core functions including design, of the business will continue over the medium-term.
This will merchandising, e-commerce and category management and focus on a continued improvement approach and enhancement Design to Customer introduced a strong and experienced leadership team.
to information technology applications introduced over the past four years and enhancements to physical infrastructure to benefit During the year, in addition to restructuring executive responsibilities process, we will the Group.
In order to protect the quality of execution, only one to better fit our future Design to Customer process, the leadership significant change will be executed each year.
team was further strengthened by the appointment of Hugo Adams improve our speed to lead the Groups marketing and business development functions, Our primary goals are to establish in-territory multi-channel Simon Callander as Group General Counsel and Company distribution centres close to each of our markets, delivering better to market, eliminate Secretary and David Hennessey, who joined us in June as our new service and accelerated fulfilment at a lower cost, harmonising Chief Information Officer.
inventory through the creation of a single stock pool and the systems and processes necessary to support the Design to wastage and reduce Optimising the Design Customer process.
We will also progressively invest in warehouse to Customer process automation to improve efficiency and service.
As we optimise the Design to Customer process, we will improve As the first step in delivering this ambition we successfully our speed to market, eliminate wastage and reduce our operating implemented two new regional distribution centres in the year in costs.
Consistent with our approach to any significant change, Grobbendonk, Belgium and Pennsylvania, USA.
These operated we will adopt a measured stance, introducing initiatives and successfully through peak trading, each serving a single channel working practices progressively so as not to create undue risk to only and their operation will be extended in financial year 2018 the underlying business.
We are confident that the changes we to fully serve each market on a multi-channel basis, including the are planning are well proven, best practice in the retail sector and planned integration of the currently outsourced USA Wholesale suitably adapted to our business model.
logistics operations into the Groups network.
Early progress has been encouraging aided by establishing a single global merchandising function consolidating the previous retail and wholesale teams.
Global range planning disciplines are now well established leading to measurable improvements in the key value creating metrics including crossover between Wholesale and Retail ranges, joint buying and overall option count reduction.
Direct sourcing Our established in-market sourcing operations in India and Turkey continue to drive efficiencies through increasing the level of product that is direct sourced.
A Chinese sourcing office, located in Shenzhen, will open later in 2017 enabling the percentage of direct sourced purchases to increase from c. 65% towards our medium People term goal of 80%.
Doing the right thing for our Superdry family customers and team www.
co. uk 21 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Extend.
Our key categories to achieve our brand growth potential.
co. uk 22 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Our product opportunities Focusing on the opportunity Significant Continual range development is a core business capability Financial in Sport and Womenswear Statements introducing newness, in the form of shape, fabric, design or Superdry Sport remains a natural evolution for the brand and has branding, to each successive season.
This opportunity is therefore shown significant growth in all markets.
The ath-leisure element opportunities exist equally relevant for heritage or new categories.
of our range provides the natural entry point for customers before widening their buying to more technical products, where options are We believe there is a clear opportunity for us to more broadly and for Superdry as we expanding and building range credibility.
Looking forward we intend confidently communicate our ownership of certain key categories, to introduce a number of dedicated Sport shop-in-shops in a such as jackets or graphic t-shirts.
Our Jackets campaign in look to extend into number of our larger stores, enhance the technical capability of our autumn 2016 combined range development and social media range including improved moisture wicking, weather tolerance and based communication of the breadth and technical benefits of our higher visibility and further develop our footwear offer to participate naturally adjacent range.
While the consistent market trend of the padded jacket in this key part of the market.
plays perfectly to our brand heritage we believe we have extended the iconic status clearly associated with the Windcheater to other The long-term strategy to grow our Womenswear category to the product categories.
ranges including Fuji, Bombers and Rookies.
The success of same value as Superdry Menswear continues to gain traction, the campaign provided valuable insight that will support future with Womenswear again growing marginally faster than Menswear seasonal campaigns.
driving an improvement in participation to 36.5%.
The opportunities to extend Superdry into adjacent product This brand strategy targets a more feminine approach to both our categories and ranges that are natural extensions for the brand product and customer experience.
Our in-house category and are equally significant.
In the year we have further developed our design teams have broadened our core ranges to better match Sport, Premium, Snow and footwear ranges which continued to and appeal to our identified customer profiles and introduced more gain traction with our customers and tactically introduced a widened regular injections of new ranges to encourage repeat purchase.
range of gifts to support the key peak trading period.
Our premium Within store, the merchandising developments delivered within the ranges, both Superdry branded and those branded in collaboration Next Generation store re-fit programme provides the inspirational with Idris Elba, provide a natural range and price hierarchy extension story that women are looking for at the point of purchase.
and have developed each season following the insight gained from SuperDesign Lab provides our customers.
dedicated innovation capability Our most significant opportunities remain in Sport and Womenswear.
Having developed the capacity and capability of our design team, the business is now well placed to continue its planned programme of core product development.
This programme will be complemented by the SuperDesign Lab which, led by James Holder, will focus on the creation of further extensions of the Superdry brand into adjacent lifestyle categories and providing a fast route to market where commercial opportunities are identified.
Passion Always keep the passion, energy and enthusiasm that created the brand www.
co. uk 23 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Execute.
Growth opportunities in new and existing markets and online.
co. uk 24 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance We believe we will optimise our customers brand experience Increasing e-commerce penetration and the ultimate scale of the brand by combining an e-commerce Our e-commerce Our e-commerce objective is to make it inspiring and easy for Financial proposition with a physical store presence, achieved via owned and Statements people across the planet to buy Superdry products and deliver an franchised stores and wholesale partners.
Specifically, our research amazing end-to-end experience centred on a sector leading delivery objective is to make has shown that multi-channel customers are more valuable to us proposition.
As in recent years, online remains the fastest growing than single channel customers as they spend more often and have route to our customers with year-on-year sales increasing by c. 35% it inspiring and easy greater brand loyalty.
and e-commerce participation up to 25.9% of total Retail sales.
Superdry stores This growth reflects the benefit of small incremental improvements for people across A key driver of our growth strategy is the expansion of the store to the customer on-line experience and includes: image based portfolio balancing owned stores of between 4,000 to 6,000 square search on search engines such as Google: use of social media to the planet to buy feet in major city locations or prime locations in shopping malls with increase awareness and keep customers engaged, for example, franchised stores operating in smaller catchments.
At the end of the introduction of #mysuperdry to the www.
com website: financial year 2017 the brand operated from 555 stores across 49 changes in creative style of the product imagery and fully responsive Superdry products countries with 220 owned, 319 franchised and 16 licensed stores.
technology implemented throughout the site.
Our plans for financial year 2018 include integration of a new order management system Our focus for owned stores continues to be Continental Europe, and deliver an into our operations that will facilitate the launch of regional fulfilment where we remain under-represented and deliver strong returns on capability in our new Belgian warehouse allowing us to service capital with, on average, a 25-month post-tax payback against a Continental Europe from that location.
amazing end-to-end target of 30 months.
In financial year 2017 we opened 124,000 square feet of new space in Continental Europe through 14 net new Our partner programme, where we offer our product for sale on third experience centred stores.
Germany continues to be a priority market for the brand and party retailer sites, drives incremental growth by accessing a new we are pleased with the overall performance of the store portfolio customer base whilst controlling the brand experience.
We have which has grown to 31 owned stores and 14 franchises, since our seven partner sites currently, including Zalando, La Redoute, and on a sector leading market entry in 2012.
The partner programme has seen good growth during the year and now represents 14% of our E-commerce business.
Continental European owned stores at the year-end comprised delivery proposition.
405,000 square feet of trading space, an increase of 44% during the Customer interaction with each of our 26 fully localised websites year, and represents 38% of our total retail estate.
continues to be led by mobile use: 67% of visits originated from either a mobile or tablet during the period, with visits from mobiles Cognisant of consumer trends towards e-commerce our approach having grown by 34% year-on-year.
to new stores remains cautious, being capital disciplined and demanding lease flexibility in all cases.
While considerable Improving our Wholesale operation opportunity for new owned and operated space exists, looking The Wholesale division has shown substantial growth throughout forward we anticipate opening c. 75,000 square feet of owned store financial year 2017, with a consistent delivery of over 40% yearspace in Continental Europe each year.
on-year growth in each half of the financial year, and continues to increase its significance within our income and operations.
This A net 59 franchise and three licence stores were added to the estate year has seen the crystallisation of process improvements made through the financial year representing an additional 95,000 square in prior years, expansion of European Wholesale sales teams and feet of Superdry sales space.
These openings included market entry Progression showrooms, and investment in best-in-class trade shows into Croatia, Israel, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, and Slovenia.
We Stay grounded and exhibitions.
have also commenced a programme of franchise store re-fits to and innovate continue to modernise and strengthen our third party store estate like mad alongside the Next Generation store re-fit programme in our own store estate.
co. uk 25 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Execute.
The Wholesale division has shown substantial growth throughout financial year 2017, with a consistent delivery of over 40% year-on-year growth in each half of the financial year, and continues to increase its significance within our income and operations.
co. uk 26 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial year 2017 saw double-digit growth in our forward order mainly located in clusters within major cities such as Boston and books and was supplemented by increased in-season sales growth Washington DC.
We also plan to open a flagship location on the Overall financial Financial facilitated by enhanced inventory availability.
Continental Europe West coast in Los Angeles during the coming year.
Statements continues to be the key growth driver with more than 30% growth performance Overall financial performance continues in line with our initial plan, in revenue reaching more than 190m.
While some of the sales with the Groups North American operations breaking even in our increases achieved in the year are one-off in nature as we step second year of ownership.
continues in line with changed our operating processes, we anticipate that the Wholesale division will deliver sustained double digit revenue growth in the China medium-term.
our initial plan, with China is an exciting market and is forecast to overtake the USA as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world.
Customer Looking forward we also anticipate advances in aligning our tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands influenced by Wholesale and Retail operations, offering both economies of scale the Groups North pop culture and we believe that the Superdry brand, with the to the Group as well as increased choice and flexibility to customers.
right product, pricing model and infrastructure, is well positioned This long-term strategy will continue into financial year 2018 and American operations to be successful.
We have a ten-year minimum 50:50 joint venture beyond as we move forward with our Design to Customer initiatives agreement with Trendy International Group Trendy.
breaking even in During the year, we have worked with Trendy to establish an Developing new markets experienced joint venture team who manage the Chinese business Looking long-term we have continued our development of two with our involvement focused on strategic direction, product our second year of markets that represent significant future growth opportunities.
and brand support and supporting store opening and marketing activities.
Trendy provide logistical, financial processing and IT North America ownership.
support in addition to people development and market knowledge.
Establishing a successful presence in North America is an important and natural step to realising our global ambition.
North America During financial year 2017 we opened five trial stores with a sixth provides us with the opportunity to enhance our brand and build opened in May 2017 and three franchises.
If the operation of the significantly the long-term value of our business.
Progress has been trial stores is successful we plan to undertake a measured roll-out made in resetting the USA business and through remedial actions programme using a combination of owned and franchised stores.
taken we have seen a positive customer response during the year from our Retail and Wholesale channels that we acquired in 2015.
Conclusion Store trading improvements, represented by a strong like-for-like We have made good progress against our four strategic objectives, performance, reflect the introduction of a broader product range, delivering developments targeted in each of the two years since better price architecture and more capable store colleagues.
we launched the strategy at the Capital Markets day in March 2015.
Through our strategy we will build both international scale, During financial year 2017 we opened seven stores as part of a through opening new stores, wholesale expansion and further global trial which enabled us to experiment with different store formats e-commerce growth, while also improving efficiency across the in different types of location.
These stores were predominantly business.
We will continue to invest in our infrastructure, product, located in the North-East of the USA and reflect a full Superdry processes and colleagues to deliver long-term, sustainable growth offer, representative of that seen in Continental Europe.
We are as we establish Superdry as a global lifestyle brand.
confident that we have secured good locations at appropriate rents and performance in these stores to date is encouraging.
We will use the learning to develop a new store opening programme that will lead to the opening of up to ten new stores in financial year 2018, www.
