STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Previous Experience 1.
MARK VERNON He was Chief Executive of BAE Systems plc Chairman Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent non-executive Director from September 2008 to June 2017, having Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board been originally appointed to its Board as Chief Charles Berry was appointed to the Board in Susan Brennan joined the Board Mark Vernon joined the Board in April 2011 and Operating Officer, UK and Rest of the World March 2012 and became non-executive in January2016.
became Senior Independent Director in April in 2007.
He also served as a non-executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations 2016.
Director and senior Independent Director of External Appointments Committee on 27 April 2012.
As previously Rotork plc until June 2014.
She is the Executive Vice-President and the External Appointments announced, Charles will retire from the Board Chief Operations Officer of Bloom Energy He is a Director of LiqTech International, Inc.
Qualifications at the conclusion of the Companys next Corporation.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Annual General Meeting in April 2018.
Previous Experience He was the Group Chief Executive of Spirax- 1 2 External Appointments She served as VP of Manufacturing at Nissan Sarco Engineering plc until his retirement in He is Chairman of The Weir Group PLC.
GILES KERR North America, Inc. and as Director of global January 2014.
He has had a long career in the Independent non-executive Director Previous Experience manufacturing at Ford, where she led a global industrial engineering industry, serving He was an executive Director of Scottish Power business office for Fords assembly, powertrain previously as Group Vice-President of Appointment to the Board plc from 1999 to 2005 and Chief Executive of and stamping plants.
Flowserves Flow Control Business Unit, Giles Kerr joined the Board on 2 September its UK Operations between 2000 and 2005.
Vice-President of Durco International and 2013.
Giles became Chairman of the Audit Qualifications Prior to joining Scottish Power, he was Group President of Valtek International, a global Committee in April 2014.
Development Director of Norwest Holst, a controls business.
External Appointments subsidiary of Compagnie General des Eaux, and 4.
BINDI FOYLE Qualifications He is Director of Finance of Oxford University held management positions within subsidiaries Group Finance Director BSc in Chemistry.
and is a non-executive director of of Pilkington plc.
He is a former non-executive Adaptimmune Therapeutics plc, BTG Plc, Appointment to the Board director and Chairman of Eaga plc, Thus Group 9.
ANDREW BODENHAM PayPoint plc and Arix Bioscience plc: he was Bindi Foyle joined the Senior plc Board as an plc and Drax Group PLC and a former nonGroup Company Secretary appointed to the latter on 17 October 2017.
3 4 Executive Director on 3 May 2017 and became executive director of Impax Environmental Group Finance Director on 1 July 2017.
Andrew Bodenham joined as Group Company Markets PLC and Securities Trust of Scotland plc.
He acts as Secretary to the Giles held a number of positions with She joined Senior as Group Financial Controller Qualifications Senior plc Board and its Committees and also Amersham plc within finance and corporate in January 2006, a role she held until July 2014 BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and MSc sits on the Groups Treasury Committee and development, culminating in his role as Group when she became responsible for the Groups inManagement.
He was formerly a Partner Investor Relations activities.
Most recently, with Arthur Andersen & Co.
CELIA BAXTER Bindi was Director of Investor Relations and Qualifications non-executive director of Victrex plc.
Independent non-executive Director Corporate Communications.
LLB Hons and a Chartered Secretary.
Qualifications Appointment to the Board Previous Experience DEREK HARDING BA Hons in Economics and a Chartered Celia Baxter joined the Board on 2 September Prior to joining Senior, Bindi held finance roles Derek Harding was Group Finance Director Accountant.
2013 and became Chair of the Remuneration at Amersham plc and GE, having previously until he left Senior plc on 30 June 2017 to join Committee in December 2013. worked with BDO Stoy Hayward.
DAVID SQUIRES 5 6 External Appointments Qualifications Group Chief Executive She is a non-executive director of N. V. Bekeart BSc Hons in Economics & Accounting and Appointment to the Board S. A.
On 6 October 2017, Celia was appointed a Chartered Accountant.
David Squires was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director pf RHI Magnesita on 1May 2015 and became Group Chief 5.
IAN KING N. V. formerly RHI-MAG N. V.. Executive on 1 June 2015.
Independent non-executive Director and Previous Experience Chairman Designate Previous Experience She stepped down as the Director of Group David started his career in the oil industry Appointment to the Board HR of Bunzl plc in September 2016.
Her early working for Shell: however, most of his Ian King joined the Board on 13 November 2017 HR career was with Ford Motor Company and working life has been spent in the aerospace as a non-executive Director and is due to take KPMG.
She has held executive HR positions with industry, initially with Hughes Aircraft over as Chairman from Charles Berry when Hays plc, Enterprise Oil Plc and Tate & Lyle Plc.
Company now Raytheon, then GEC-Marconi heretires from the Board at the conclusion of Qualifications BAE Systems, Eaton Corporation, and Cobham the Companys next Annual General Meeting Doctor of Philosophy PhD and Member of 7 8 plc, before joining Senior plc in May 2015. in April 2018. theChartered Institute of Personnel and David has held senior posts in operations and External Appointments Development.
procurement, business development, Ian is a non-executive director of Schroders programme management and general plc, having been appointed to its Board on management.
Prior to joining Senior plc, David 1 January 2017, the lead non-executive director was Chief Operating Officer of Cobham plc.
for the Department for Transport and a senior advisor to the Board of Gleacher Shacklock Qualifications LLP.
BA in Business Management Studies, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply and Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
9 36 36 S SE EN NI IO OR P R PL LC A C AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 17 7 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 37 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1.
ANDREW BODENHAM See biography on page 37.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT HSE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee, although not 2.
JANE JOHNSTON formally appointed as a Committee of the The HSE committee is also not formally Jane joined the Group on 16 May 2016.
Board, oversees the running of all Senior appointed as a Committee of the Board, Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Groupoperations.
butofficially oversees all health, safety and 3.
LAUNIE FLEMING and Development, Jane has considerable environmental matters across the Group.
The purpose of the Executive Committee experience heading up HR functions across a A US citizen, he has worked for the Group istoassist the Group Chief Executive in Throughout 2017, the members of this range of global geographies.
She has worked foraround 20 years.
Launie joined the theperformance of his duties, including: committee were: David Squires Chairman in a number of different sectors including Executive Committee upon his appointment ofthe committee, Mike Sheppard Chief technology, drug development, construction, the development and implementation asChief Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems 1 2 Executive of Flexonics, Joe Mockus and professional services and, prior to joining of strategy, operational plans, policies, in September 2008.
Prior to that appointment, ChiefExecutive of Aerospace Structures, Senior, was Group HR Director at Pace plc.
procedures and budgets: he had been Chief Executive of Senior Launie Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Aerospace SSP.
the monitoring of operating and financial Fluid Systems and Mark Roden Group HSE JERRY GOODWIN performance: &Sustainability Director.
The committee Jerry was a member of the Executive 4.
JOE MOCKUS metthree times during the year.
Committee until he left Senior on31January the assessment and control of risk: A US citizen, he joined the Group in October 2017 to pursue other interests outside the 2010 as the Chief Executive of Senior Flexonics the prioritisation and allocation of resources: Group.
Bartlett and subsequently added responsibility and for the Senior Flexonics businesses in Mexico DEREK HARDING the monitoring of competitive forces in each and India.
He was appointed Chief Executive of area of operation.
Derek was a member of the Executive Aerospace Structures in February 2017.
Prior to Committee until he left Senior plc on 30 June joining Senior, Joe served as President and The Committee is also responsible for the 2017 to join Shop Direct.
COO of Femco Holdings LLC.
consideration of all other matters not specifically 3 4 reserved for consideration by the Board.
MIKE SHEPPARD Areport on the activities of the Executive A US citizen, he has worked for the Group for Committee is provided to the Board by the Group Chief Executive at each Board meeting.
over 30 years and is the Chief Executive of Flexonics.
A qualified engineer, Mikes previous The Committee is comprised of two members positions within the Group included operational of the Board, David Squires and Bindi Foyle, roles at the two largest Flexonics businesses, together with Launie Fleming Chief Executive Pathway and Bartlett.
of Aerospace Fluid Systems, Joe Mockus Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures, 6.
DAVID BEAVAN Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, David took up the role of Director of Business David Beavan Director of Business Development & Strategy formerly the Head Development & Strategy, Andrew Bodenham ofBusiness Development in April 2014.
Group Company Secretary and Jane Johnston 5 6 Hejoined the Group in 2004, when he was Group HR Director.
appointed the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace BWT.
Prior to joining Senior, David had general management experience within automotive and commercial aircraft 1st tier BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP supplier industries.
Membership and the attendance record of the full Board Meetings and its full Committee Meetings are shown in the table below: Main Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Charles Berry Giles Kerr Charles Berry Celia Baxter Total number of meetings 7 3 4 4 Charles Berry 6 7 2 4 3 4 Celia Baxter 7 7 3 3 4 4 4 4 7 8 Susan Brennan 7 7 3 3 4 4 4 4 1 Bindi Foyle 5 5 2 Derek Harding 3 3 Giles Kerr 7 7 3 3 4 4 4 4 3 Ian King 1 1 1 1 1 1 David Squires 7 7 Mark Vernon 7 7 2 3 3 4 4 4 1 Bindi Foyle Executive Director joined the Board on 3 May 2017.
2 Derek Harding Executive Director retired from the Board on 30 June 2017.
3 Ian King Non-executive Director joined the Board on 13 November 2017.
Jerry Goodwin was the Chief Executive of AerospaceStructures until he left the Group on31January 2017 and was succeeded by JoeMockus on 1 February 2017.
Derek Harding was the Group Finance Director untilheleft the Group on 30 June 2017 and was succeeded by Bindi Foyle on 1 July 2017.
Bindi was amember of the Executive Committee prior to herappointment as Group Finance Director.
38 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 39 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS In 2016, the Group undertook a formal SHARE CAPITAL FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS POLITICAL DONATIONS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors present tenderprocess for its external audit function, AND POLICY The Company has one class of ordinary Note 20 contains disclosures on financial No political donations were made by the Group with a selected number of audit firms receiving their Report and shares, which carries no right to a fixed instruments.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was an invitation to tender.
Each share carries the right to vote approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
supplementary reports, Groups external auditor from 2000 to 2016, DIRECTORS EMPLOYEES atgeneral meetings of the Company.
The The Board has undertaken an extensive was not invited to tender due to the longevity Company issued 1,832 new shares in 2017, Details of the Directors who served throughout The Group promotes the dissemination of reviewof the Policy and the updated Directors together with the audited of its appointment.
Following conclusion of asshown inthe table below: Remuneration Policy, which is highlighted in the year can be found on pages 36 and 37. relevant information, so that employees are thetender process, the Board recommended Financial Statements TheDirectors interests in the shares of the kept regularly advised of Group and local the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 60, is Shares in issue at that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Groups to be put to shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM.
Company are included in the Directors operation developments.
Where appropriate, 1 January 2017 419,416,250 external acuditor for the financial year forthe year ended Remuneration Report on page 67.
No Director local briefing sessions are held concerning Senior plc Long-Term The Annual Report on Remuneration is commencing 1 January 2017: this was has any interest in contracts with the Company such matters as Group development, corporate 31December 2017.
Incentive Plan 0 approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
alsotobe put to shareholder vote at the or its subsidiary undertakings.
As shown on ethics, health and safety, pension plans and Senior plc Savings-Related forthcoming AGM.
By Order of the Board page 37, Susan Brennan is Executive Vice healthcare benefits.
ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW Share Option Plan 1,832 President and the Chief Operations Officer of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Shares in issue at Senior plc is a holding company.
The nature of GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Andrew Bodenham Bloom Energy Corporation.
Note 52 provides 31December 2017 419,418,082 The Notice of Meeting describes the business the Groups operations and its principal activities details of the contract Bloom Energy has with Group Company Secretary The Group has followed the reporting to be considered at the AGM to be held at are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 23 February 2018 aGroup subsidiary.
Procedures have been requirements on greenhouse gas emissions, Further share capital details are given in 11.30 am on Friday 27 April 2018 at Glaziers 1to 19.
Its Group undertakings are shown on adopted by Bloom Energy which mean Susan contained in the Companies Act 2006 Note35.
Hall, 9 Montague Close, London Bridge, pages 121 and 122.
The Strategic Report Brennan has no involvement in this contract.
Strategic Report and Directors Report London SE1 9DD.
includes details of the market overview: key Details of employee share plans are set out in Regulations 2013: details of the Groups The provisions of the UK Corporate growth drivers: Seniors business model: Note 34. greenhouse gas emissions can be found Governance Code require that all Directors ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANYS strategic objectives: risks and uncertainties: onpage 33.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of ofFTSE 350 companies should be subject to OWN SHARES key performance indicators and asummary a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which annual election by shareholders.
Celia Baxter, ofthe Groups 2017 performance.
The Company purchased no ordinary shares MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS are both governed by the general provisions Susan Brennan, Giles Kerr, David Squires and of10p each in the capital of the Company ofthe Companys Articles of Association and The Company had been notified that the Mark Vernon will all stand for re-election at the ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS during the year.
0.1m shares were purchased prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not following shareholders were interested in AGM to be held in April 2018.
Ian King and On 7 September 2017, the Group sold the by the Senior plc Employee Benefit Trust in aware of any agreements between holders 3%or more of the issued share capital Bindi Foyle, who were appointed Directors business and assets of Senior Aerospace the year to satisfy the future vesting of ofthe Companys shares that may result in oftheCompany: during 2017, will each stand for election at BWTs facility based at Ilkeston, UK: the executive share awards.
At the end of the restrictions on the transfer of securities or on the2018 AGM.
Charles Berry is to retire from 07.02.18 detailscan be found in Note 31 to the year, theDirectors had authority, under the voting rights.
No person has any special rights % the Board at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM, Consolidated Financial Statements.
shareholders resolutions dated 21 April 2017, of control over the Companys share capital, as previously announced, and so will not stand Aberdeen Standard Investments 6.96 to make market purchases of the Companys and all issued shares are fully paid.
Allianz Global Investors 6.46 RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS shares up to an aggregate nominal amount BlackRock 4.85 With regard to the appointment and of42m, which represented approximately The results for the year are shown in the BOARD DIVERSITY replacement of Directors, the Company is Fidelity International 4.57 10% of the issued share capital of the Consolidated Income Statement on page 76.
Senior remains committed to all aspects of governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Heronbridge Investment Company.
Aresolution to renew this authority An interim dividend of 2.05 pence per share Board diversity including gender, experience, Corporate Governance Code, the Companies will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Management 4.36 2016 1.95 pence has already been paid background and personal attributes and Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles Fidelity Management & Research 3.91 and the Directors recommend a 2017 final willkeep under review its balance and may be amended by special resolution of the AUDITOR Janus Henderson Investors 3.84 dividend of 4.90 pence per share 2016 4.62 composition.
The appointments of Celia Baxter shareholders.
The powers of Directors are Each of the persons who is a Director of Legal & General Investment pence.
The final dividend, if approved, will to the Board in 2013, Susan Brennan in 2016 described in the Matters Reserved for the theCompany at the date of approval of this Management 3.81 be payable on 31 May 2018 to shareholders and Bindi Foyle in 2017, mean that Senior now Senior plc Board, which may be found on the Annual Report confirms that so far as the Aberforth Partners 3.41 on the register atthe close of business on has strong female representation on its Board.
Each year, shareholder Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 4 May 2018.
This would bring the total Mensarius 3.30 approval is sought to renew the Boards information of which the Companys Auditor dividend for the year to 6.95pence per share DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES authority to allot relevant securities.
is unaware: and So far as is known, no other shareholder had 2016 6.57 pence.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions There are also a number of other agreements anotifiable interest amounting to 3% or more the Director has taken all steps that he she for the benefit of the Directors were renewed that take effect, alter or terminate upon a of the issued share capital of the Company, ought to have taken as a Director in order by the Company during the year and remain change of control of the Company, such as andthe Directors believe that the close tomake himself herself aware of any in force at the date of this Report.
commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, company provisions of the Income and relevant audit information and to establish property lease arrangements, and employee Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as amended that the Companys Auditor is aware RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT share plans.
None of these are considered to donot apply to the Company.
In 2017, the Group incurred 25.6m 2016 be significant in terms of their likely impact 18.7m on research and development.
This information is given and should be onthe business of the Group as a whole.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK Product development and improving interpreted in accordance with the provisions Furthermore, the Directors are not aware CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE manufacturing processes represent the of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. ofany agreements between the Company The statement of compliance with the primary focus of the Groups research and andits Directors or employees that provide for provisions of the UK Corporate Governance development activities.
compensation for loss of office or employment Code 2016 issued by the Financial Reporting that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Council is set out on page 42.
40 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 41 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In 2017, an advanced Code of Conduct training membership and attendance is shown on To enable the members of the Board and totender due to the longevity of its CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT page39.
Other Committees are appointed itsCommittees to discharge their duties appointment.
Following conclusion of the course, together with Ethical Behaviour: This Corporate Governance Report describes Acting with Integrity training, were rolled out bythe Board to deal with treasury matters, effectively, the Group Company Secretary tender process, the Board recommended the manner in which the Company has disclosure matters and specific issues such seeks to ensure that all relevant information thatKPMG LLP be appointed as the Groups to all employees across the Group.
Between appliedthe Main Principles of the UK them, the Group Chief Executive, the Group asacquisitions and disposals.
isprovided to the Directors in a timely manner external auditor for the financial year CorporateGovernance Code 2016 the in advance of meetings.
commencing 1 January 2017: this was Finance Director and the rest of the Executive Corporate Governance Code.
The minutes arising from all Committee Committee visit all of theGroups operations approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
meetings are made available to the Board.
In 2017, a self-assessment evaluation of the With effect from 6 July 2017, Deloitte resigned on an annual basis andmake presentations to STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Procedures are in place to ensure that all Board and its Committees was undertaken, local senior management, reinforcing the Code as the Groups external auditor: in accordance WITHTHE CORPORATE Directors are properly briefed, so that decisions assisted by Independent Audit Limited.
The with Section 519 of the Companies Act 2006, and theimportance of maintaining an absolute GOVERNANCE CODE taken by the Board are based on the fullest, evaluation findings showed that the Board commitment to the highest standards of ethics Deloitte confirmed that it was not aware of any up-to-date, available information.
The nonoperated effectively throughout the period and The Company has been in compliance with circumstances that needed to be brought to and a zero tolerance towards bribery and made some suggestions for additional focus.
executive Directors are encouraged to visit thePrinciples set out in Sections A to E of the corruption.
The Board verifies compliance with the attention of the Companys shareholders CHAIRMANS LETTER theGroups operations to meet the local The findings will be used to help support the Corporate Governance Code throughout 2017. and creditors.
On 13 July 2017, the Company the Code through its internal audit programme, development of the Board as the Group management teams and discuss any issues I am pleased to present the Groups ensuring that employees have received published a regulatory news announcement that they may face.
At every Board meeting, continues with its strategy to grow profitability, Corporate Governance Report for 2017 on APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES and, in accordance with Section 520 2 of the themandatory training and that the Groups both organically and by acquisition.
there are reviews of health, safety and behalf of the Board.
This report is intended OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE businesses operate with integrity at all Companies Act 2006, wrote to all shareholders environmental performance, and operational, Independent Audit Limited has no other toprovide shareholders with a clear and informing them of Deloittes resignation timesand in compliance with the Code.
CODE connection with the Company.
financial and administrative matters: social meaningful explanation of what governance andproviding a copy of its Statement of The Principles of good corporate governance andethical issues, the agreement of budgets Operating with integrity and in an ethical means to the Board and how this guides its As in prior years, in 2017 the Chairman Circumstances, stating that the Company are detailed in the Corporate Governance Code manner builds trust with customers and other and levels of insurance cover are reviewed decision-making process.
Good corporate undertook a review of the performance hadundertaken a competitive tender process under five areas.
These Principles have each whenever appropriate.
stakeholders and underpins the Boards governance is taken seriously across the ofallthe Directors, with the exception of for the position of statutory auditor and the been reviewed by the Directors and are strategic objectives.
Group: the Board sets the tone and takes There is a procedure by which all Directors can IanKing, as he had only joined the Board Company had decided not to re-appoint commented upon as follows: thelead on all governance matters.
obtain independent professional advice at the on13November 2017: this process involved Deloitte LLP.
Human rights Section A: Leadership The Group recognises the importance of the Companys expense in furtherance of their individual appraisal interviews.
The results I am pleased to confirm that the Board At the 2018 AGM, the Board will be seeking The Board is structured under a non-executive duties, if required.
ofthe evaluation process are used to improve Universal Declaration of Human Rights and reviewed the requirements of the UK shareholder approval for a revised Directors Chairman, and currently includes two executive adheres to the core principles and values Board performance and to determine the Corporate Governance Code 2016 in 2017 Section B: Effectiveness Remuneration Policy, details of which can be Directors and five independent non-executive training needs of each of the Directors.
The majority of countries in and Iconfirm that the Company complies, found on pages 55 to 60.
In accordance with The Companys Nominations Committee Directors, who were selected for appointment which Senior operates have their own laws Mark Vernon, in consultation with the andwill continue to do so.
The Board notes leadsthe process for Board appointments, goodpractice, towards the end of 2017, the because of their wide industrial and otherDirectors, undertook an evaluation of banning child labour and promoting human that in December 2017, the FRC published Remuneration Committee sought the views of andsupervises management development commercial experience.
Senior monitors the ages of its theChairmans performance, and concluded proposals for a revised UK Corporate andsuccession planning.
It also makes the Companys largest shareholders regarding Company has an Executive Committee, that Charles Berry provided effective workforce across the world to ensure Governance Code, and associated revised the potential changes it might make to the recommendations to the Board on all new chaired by the Group Chief Executive, compliance and identify any potential leadership of the Board.
Based on the results Guidance on Board Effectiveness, to reflect Board appointments and re-appointments, Remuneration Policy.
comprising the executive Directors and other of the performance evaluation process, succession issues.
the changing business environment and help further details of which can be found on key executives within the Group.
Details of the theChairman considers that all members Communicating the Code of Conduct and UK companies achieve the highest levels page45.
The Committee, which consists Senior is committed to preventing slavery and members of the Board and of the Executive ofthe Board, the Board collectively, and its operating with integrity ofgovernance.
The Board is committed to human trafficking in its corporate activities and entirely of non-executive Directors, is chaired Committee are summarised on pages 36 to 39.
Committees, continue to contribute effectively In 2016, the executive Directors published ensuring the long-term sustainable growth by Charles Berry: its composition is shown on throughout its supply chain.
In 2017, in order to to the running of the Company.
abooklet for issue to all employees and third ofthe Group, which is key to the updated The Directors consider that an effective Board raise awareness of modern slavery issues, all page 39, and its Terms of Reference may be parties, explaining the Groups revised Code setof Principles set out in the proposed is in place which leads and controls the Group, found on the Companys website.
The Board In compliance with the Corporate Governance employees received training on Supporting ofConduct the Code and Seniors Values, revised Code.
with clear divisions of responsibility between Code, all Directors offered themselves for Human Rights: Modern Slavery Act to help considers all non-executive Directors of the which can be found on page 10.
The booklet the running of the Board and the running of Company tobe independent, having taken re-election at the Companys 2017 AGM.
At identify and prevent slavery and human includes a message from the Group Chief Charles Berry theGroups businesses.
the 2018 AGM, with the exception of myself, trafficking.
Additional work was undertaken intoaccount alist of relationships and Executive, explaining that it is his unshakeable Chairman circumstances thatmay appear relevant in all Directors will again offer themselves for during the year with our supply chain to further The Board is responsible for strategic decisions belief that how you do business isas important election or re-election.
As previously reduce the potential exposure.
determining independence, in accordance affecting the Group, including the setting of as what you do in business.
The booklet withthe Corporate Governance Code.
announced, I shall be retiring from the Board commercial strategy and the approval of Group contains work-related scenarios, together with Senior does not restrict any of its employees atthe conclusion of the 2018 AGM, having budgets and financial statements.
It also inany of the countries in which it operates When appointing new Directors, the a selection of questions and answers, to help completed six years service as a Director approves significant financial and contractual Nominations Committee is fully cognisant of employees to understand the Code and relate from joining a trade union if they wish to do so.
commitments made by the Group.
The Boards Senior also works closely with its suppliers to the benefits of diversity: the Boards policy on it to their individual roles and working Terms of Reference more fully describe the diversity and inclusion is described on page 32.
Copies of the Code are issued to ensure that they at least meet internationally responsibilities of the Board and may be found recognised minimum requirements for workers The Board determines the nature and extent all new employees and reissued periodically to Recruitment processes with external on the Companys website.
ofthe significant actions necessary to achieve ongoing employees to remind them of the welfare and conditions of employment.
consultants were undertaken in 2017, leading its strategic objectives and maintains a sound required level of conduct.
The Board delegates a certain number of its to Bindi Foyle being appointed to the Board in Reporting and investigating concerns and system of internal control.
The Companys responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Senior trains its employees on the whistle-blowing May 2017 and Ian King in November 2017.
The Audit Committee reports to and, for certain Nominations, and Health, Safety & Environment Nominations Committee, chaired by Mark requirements of its Code upon induction, The Company encourages its employees to matters, advises the Board of Directors.
The Group Chief Executive, educating them on what they can and cannot discuss any ethical concerns that they may Vernon, managed the succession planning TheAudit Committee Report on pages 46 to together with the Executive Committee, process to appoint a new Chairman: Charles do, and how to address any ethical dilemmas have with local management, or at Group level 50 describes the role and activities of the Audit isresponsible for the implementation of the they may face.
The Groups ethical procedures if more appropriate.
Berry had no involvement in this process.
For Committee, together with the significant decisions made by the Board and for the details of their recruitment and appointment and Code were reviewed in the light of the issues that it considered in relation to the As part of its internal control procedures, day-to-day conduct of the Groups operations.
UKBribery Act 2010: an enhanced Code of procedure, please see the Nominations theCompany has a Whistle-blowing Policy 2017Financial Statements and its relationship Committee Report on page 45.
A summary of Conduct training programme was rolled out The Board meets formally on a regular basis, with the internal and external auditors.
thatis communicated throughout the Group.
across the Group to all employees in 2016 the Directors biographies appears on pages 36 seven times in 2017: in addition, there were This policy provides employees with the and 37.
All Directors receive induction upon The Group undertook a formal tender process andsubsequently to all new employees.
Also three meetings of the Audit Committee in opportunity to report suspected unethical or for its external audit service, with a selected in 2016, Preventing Bribery & Corruption joining the Board and are encouraged to update 2017, together with four meetings of the illegal corporate conduct confidentially and their knowledge and skills on a frequent basis.
number of audit firms receiving an invitation training was provided to employees who had Remuneration Committee and four meetings anonymously.
All reports of suspected totender.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups external outward-facing roles in management, finance, In 2017, all Directors received training on of the Nominations Committee.
A table unethical or illegal corporate conduct are statutory matters.
auditor from 2000 to 2016, was not invited procurement, sales and human resources.
showing Board and Committee meeting 42 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 43
