52 52 GS GSK K A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 17 7 Group financial review continued Group financial review In this section CFOs statement 53 Approach to Brexit 55 Approach to tax 56 Viability statement 57 Reporting framework 58 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 59 Group turnover 60 Total results 65 Adjusted results 69 Cash generation and conversion 71 Financial position and resources 72 Critical accounting policies 76 Treasury policies 77 53 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Group financial review We continued to make progress in delivering against our strategy and the financial goals we have set out in our financial architecture.
Simon Dingemans Chief Financial Officer Our 2017 results reflect a continued focus Due to their magnitude, charges related on execution including driving growth to the impact of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs from existing products and recent launches: Act enacted in 2017 have been excluded controlling costs tightly to help build better from Adjusted results.
operating leverage across the Group, while GSK continues to present both Total also investing behind our future growth and Adjusted results in all tables and drivers: and improving cash generation commentaries and has provided a to increase our capacity to support both reconciliation between the two on investment and the dividends we pay to page 67. our shareholders.
Sales growth Financial architecture All three of our businesses delivered We are using our financial architecture growth in 2017. to ensure that the delivery of our strategic Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER, priorities of Innovation, Performance and 3% CER, with growth from HIV products, Trust translate into clear financial goals our Ellipta portfolio and Nucala more than that we can embed across the Group.
offsetting the decline in sales of Seretide These goals are targeted at delivering Advair and Established Pharmaceuticals, Viability statement stronger growth in sales through improved as well as a 1% drag from divestments.
Our viability statement sets out our innovation across all three businesses, assessment of the prospects of the In Vaccines, we generated significant driving earnings per share faster than sales, Group over the next three years and growth from our meningitis and flu portfolios, through better operating leverage from is presented on page 57. and benefited from increased demand for tight cost control and continued financial Established Vaccines.
We finished the year efficiencies, and converting more of those with overall Vaccines sales up 12% AER, earnings into cash which can either be 6% CER.
reinvested in the business or returned to shareholders.
Critically, these goals need Consumer Healthcare delivered growth to be delivered in the right way, consistent of 8% AER, 2% CER, reflecting a strong with our values and our objective of building performance from power brands in the trust in GSK.
Pain and Oral health categories, partly offset by the impact of continued competitive We are using the architecture and its pressures in the US allergy category and goals to help create a step-change in the a broader market slowdown across key alignment of our operations across three categories.
In addition, reported growth fully integrated businesses, including a was impacted by the divestment of the new end-to-end emphasis on cost, cash Nigerian beverages business in 2016 and capital discipline.
and the implementation of the Goods Reporting framework & Service Tax in India during 2017.
Our Reporting Framework is described Operating leverage in more detail on page 58.
Following a The Total operating margin was 13.5% detailed review, we made some changes of sales compared with 9.3% in 2016. in 2017.
Core results were renamed The increased margin reflected primarily Adjusted results and now include lower accounting charges related to ordinary course legal charges.
the remeasurement of the liabilities for contingent consideration, put options and preferential dividends.
Footnote We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 58, including Adjusted results, free cash flow and CER growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
54 GSK Annual Report 2017 Group financial review continued Capital allocation framework Key priorities for capital Pharmaceuticals pipeline Invest in the business Consumer Healthcare put option Innovation Vaccines capacity Improved 80p per share dividend expected for 2018 Shareholder returns cash Performance Focus on rebuilding free cash flow over time generation Target 1.25x to 1.5x cover before returning dividend to growth Trust Strict discipline on returns Other transactions M&A The Adjusted operating margin of 28.4% US tax reform Contingent consideration was 0.9 percentage points higher than in The enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs At the end of 2017, GSK had liabilities 2016 and 0.4 percentage points higher Act in December 2017 is expected to have for contingent consideration payments of on a CER basis.
This reflected improved a positive impact on the future after tax 6.2 billion, of which 5.5 billion related operating leverage driven by sales growth earnings of GSKs US businesses.
This is to the estimated present value of future and a more favourable mix in all three primarily due to the reduction in Federal payments to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare.
businesses, together with the benefit to corporation tax rates from 1 January 2018, The payments to Shionogi are calculated Vaccines of a settlement for lost third party which is expected to benefit the Group each quarter based on a high-teens supply volume and a favourable year-on-year effective tax rate on Adjusted profits in percentage of the revenues of the relevant comparison to inventory adjustments in 2016.
2018 by two to three percentage points.
products, principally dolutegravir, with the Tight control of ongoing costs across all We intend to apply the flexibility and cash discounted fair value of the total future three businesses also contributed, along benefits these reforms will provide in payments reflecting the current expectations with further benefits from restructuring and accordance with our capital allocation of total future sales of those products.
These were partly offset by framework.
Further details are provided in Note 39, increases in R&D investment including Contingent consideration liabilities.
The enactment of the new law has a charge of 106 million on the Priority resulted in a number of additional charges Free cash flow Review Voucher utilised in HIV, as well as in 2017, which reduced Total earnings by Net cash inflow from operating activities was continuing price pressure, particularly in 1,630 million.
6.9 billion and free cash flow for the Group Respiratory, and supply chain investments.
was 3.4 billion, compared with 3.0 billion These charges represent managements Our work to maintain tight control of costs in 2016.
The Sterling increase of 14% estimates of the impact of US tax reform on across the Group included supply chain reflected the improved operating profit the Group based on the information currently efficiencies from a mixture of site closures, performance, a positive currency benefit available.
As more information on the detailed consolidating our manufacturing supplier and reduced cash spending on restructuring application of the Act becomes available, base and simplifying our global distribution and capital expenditures, partly offset by the assumptions underlying these estimates and logistics network.
We are also further increased working capital, mainly due to could change, with consequent adjustments stepping up our focus on procurement the building of inventory in advance of new to the charges taken that could have a through a new global organisation.
material impact on the results of the Group.
Financial efficiency Net debt Earnings per share Financial efficiency remains a priority.
Net debt at the end of 2017 amounted to Total EPS was 31.4p 2016 18.8p.
Successfully refinancing maturing debt 13.2 billion, 0.6 billion lower than at the The increase reflected primarily lower during 2017 allowed us to hold net end of 2016.
The reduction was primarily accounting charges related to the financing costs relatively flat for the year.
attributable to improved free cash flow of remeasurement of the liabilities for 3.4 billion and disposal proceeds of We continue to focus on protecting our contingent consideration, put options 0.6 billion together with a translation credit profile and funding flexibility.
benefit of 0.6 billion on the Sterling value Adjusted EPS of 111.8p was up 11% AER, of non-Sterling denominated debt, more 4% CER, reflecting improved operating than offsetting the cash dividends paid to leverage that delivered earnings growth shareholders in the year of 3.9 billion.
55 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Capital allocation framework In the event that no substitutable generic Our approach to Brexit The priorities for the use of our capital version of Advair is introduced to the US remain as presented in July 2017.
They market in 2018, the Group expects 2018 We have evaluated the impact of Brexit are focused on three particular priorities: Adjusted EPS growth of 4-7% at CER.
on our business operations, including investing in the business, delivering cash This is based on an expected decline in our supply chain and quality oversight.
returns to shareholders through dividends 2018 in US Advair sales of 20-25%.
Our priority is to maintain continuity of and potentially accessing strategic In the event of a mid-year introduction of a GSKs supply of medicines, vaccines acquisitions that would strengthen the substitutable generic competitor to Advair and health products to our patients and business, subject to them meeting a strict in the US, the Group expects full-year 2018 consumers in the UK and the EU.
In establishing the US Advair sales of around 750 million at first priority as investing in the business, Uncertainty remains about the future CER US$1.30 1, with Adjusted EPS flat we identified a primary focus on relationship between the UK and the to down 3% at CER.
strengthening the Pharmaceuticals business EU.
As a result, we have agreed a Both scenarios reflect the benefit of US and, in particular, its R&D pipeline.
We also risk-based approach to mitigation across tax reform with an expected 2018 effective confirmed the attractiveness of accepting the organisation.
Implementation of our tax rate on Adjusted profits of 19-20%.
the Consumer Healthcare put option, should contingency plan has been underway it be exercised, and continuing to expand since January 2018, with an immediate We are not able to give guidance for Total capacity in key product lines across our focus on our supply chains.
This includes results as we cannot reliably forecast certain Vaccines business.
expanding our ability in the EU and the material elements of our Total results such UK to conduct re-testing and certification as the future fair value movements on To strengthen how we allocate capital and of medicines: transferring Marketing contingent consideration and put options.
to ensure that we are allocating funding Authorisations registered in the UK to where the most attractive returns are Returns to shareholders to an EU entity: updating packaging available, we have implemented a clearer For 2017, we maintained our ordinary and packaging leaflets: amending framework and created a new board to dividend at 80p in line with the commitment manufacturing and importation licences, govern the allocation of capital between we made to shareholders at the time we and securing additional warehousing.
closed the Novartis transaction in early 2015.
We currently anticipate that the cost to We have expanded the use of cash flowGSK recognises the importance of implement these and other necessary based return metrics beyond individual dividends to shareholders and aims to changes could be up to 70 million project assessments.
Now that we have distribute regular dividend payments that over the next two to three years, with been able to create fully integrated business will be determined primarily with reference to subsequent ongoing additional costs units for Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and the free cash flow generated by the business of approximately 50 million per year, Consumer Healthcare, we have been able after funding the investment necessary to including additional customs duties and to apply a more consistent cash return on support the Groups future growth.
These invested capital CROIC methodology to charges represent our estimates of the prioritise investment across the Group as a The Board intends to maintain the dividend impact of Brexit based on the information whole, so that we can compare the returns for 2018 at the current level of 80p per share, currently available.
As more information from each of the three integrated businesses subject to any material change in the external on the changes to our business that as we allocate capital between them.
will be required after Brexit becomes We also regularly benchmark ourselves Over time, as free cash flow strengthens, available, the assumptions underlying with peers relevant to each of our three we intend to build free cash flow cover of these estimates could change, with businesses.
the annual dividend to a target range of consequent adjustments, either up or 1.25-1.50x, before returning the dividend down, to the additional costs we expect 2018 guidance to growth.
We will continue to adjust our We expect continued progress in 2018, A fuller review of the financial results is plans and their expected financial impact including sales growth contributions from set out on pages 56 to 78. as negotiations and regulations develop.
our new and recent product launches in HIV, Respiratory and Vaccines.
Delivering these necessary but complex changes by March 2019 will be ambitious The expectation for 2018 Adjusted EPS and potentially disruptive in the short term growth is dependent on a number of factors and we support efforts to secure a status including, in particular, uncertainties relating quo transition period to minimise to the timing and extent of potential generic disruption.
Over the longer term, we competition to Advair in the US.
Simon Dingemans continue to believe that Brexit will not Chief Financial Officer have a material impact on our business.
56 GSK Annual Report 2017 Group financial review continued Our approach to tax We understand our responsibility to pay The Total tax rate also reflected the We understand our an appropriate amount of tax, and fully reassessment of estimates of uncertain responsibility to pay support efforts to ensure companies are tax positions following the settlement of a appropriately transparent about how their number of open issues with tax authorities an appropriate amount tax affairs are managed.
Tax is an important in various jurisdictions.
element of the economic contribution we of tax while being Tax risk is managed by a set of policies bring to the countries in which we operate.
and procedures to ensure consistency and financially efficient We do not engage in artificial tax compliance with tax legislation.
Our Audit arrangements those without business and delivering a & Risk Committee and the Board are or commercial substance.
We do not seek responsible for approving our tax policies sustainable tax rate.
to avoid tax by the use of tax havens or and risk management approach.
transactions we would not fully disclose We seek to maintain open, positive to a tax authority.
We have a zero tolerance relationships with governments and tax approach to tax evasion and the facilitation authorities worldwide and we welcome of tax evasion.
constructive debate on taxation policy.
We have a substantial business and 2017 has seen the enactment of significant employment presence in many countries reforms of tax laws in multiple jurisdictions.
around the globe and we pay a significant We expect there to be continued focus amount of tax, including corporation and on tax reform in the future, driven by the other business taxes, as well as tax OECDs Base Erosion and Profit associated with our employees.
At the Shifting BEPS project and European same time, we have a responsibility to our Commission initiatives such as fiscal state shareholders to be financially efficient and aid investigations.
The outputs from the deliver a sustainable tax rate.
As part of this OECD BEPS projects clarified the approach, we look to align our investment important principle that tax should be paid strategies to those countries where we on profits throughout the supply chain, already have substantial economic activity, where the profit-making activity takes place.
and where government policies promote regimes which are attractive to business GSK supports the BEPS proposals, investment and R&D activity, and are in particular the implementation of the transparent in their intent and available to OECDs recommendations on Country by all relevant tax payers.
Examples include Country Reporting, including the exchange the UK Patent Box and Research and of this data between tax authorities.
data, validated against existing information held on taxpayers, will support their ability In 2017, the Group corporate tax charge to ensure multinational groups pay an was 1,356 million 2016 877 million appropriate amount of tax.
on profits of 3,525 million 2016 1,939 million representing an effective tax rate of The detailed tax implications of Brexit are 38.5% 2016 45.2%.
We made cash dependent on the outcome of negotiations tax payments of 1,340 million in the year between the UK and EU, and are therefore 2016 1,609 million.
In addition to the currently unknown.
However, we continue taxes we pay on our profits, we pay duties, to work closely with the ABPI and BIA to levies, transactional and employment taxes.
analyse the potential implications for the industry in order to highlight key focus areas Our Adjusted tax rate for 2017 was 21.0% for the Government as part of its Brexit 2016 21.3%.
Subject to any material negotiations.
The direct tax implications, changes in our product mix, or other in particular, are expected to be limited material changes in tax regulations or laws for GSK while the indirect implications in the countries in which we operate, and may be more significant, including potential following the impact of US tax reform, the customs duty costs and additional Groups effective Adjusted tax rate for 2018 transaction or administrative costs and the next several years is expected to be associated with managing import and in the region of 19-20%.
export obligations on the movement of The Groups Total tax rate of 38.5% 2016 goods between the UK and EU.
Our 45.2% for 2017 was higher than the approach to Brexit is set out on page 55.
Adjusted tax rate as it was affected by the Our approach to tax is set out in detail impact of US and Swiss tax reforms, within the Public Policy positions section as explained at Note 14, together with Footnote of our website.
Further details about our transaction-related charges arising on We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, corporate tax charges for the year are set the Groups put option liabilities.
measures to report the performance of our out on page 177. business, as described on page 58.
57 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been evaluated: GSK has assessed the prospects of the company over a longer Scenario 1: Business performance risks.
These include key period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern performance risks, including lower sales from new products: the provision.
The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable possible impact of a generic alternative to Seretide Advair in the expectation that GSK will continue to operate and meets its liabilities, US: intensifying competition in the HIV market: greater adverse as they fall due, over the next three years.
The Directors assessment impact from generic competition and other competitive launches to has been made with reference to GSKs current position and other GSK products, as well as possible supply and manufacturing prospects, our strategy, the Boards risk appetite and GSKs challenges.
principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed on pages Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks.
This scenario 20 and 21 in the Strategic report.
reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside factors The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management such as more intense competition, increased pricing pressure in policies and approves our governance structure and code of both the US and Europe as well as the potential impact of material conduct.
It also appraises and approves major financing, investment negative changes in the macro-economic and healthcare and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance environment.
and prospects of GSK as a whole.
The focus is largely on improving Scenario 3: Principal risks.
This scenario includes a severe our long-term financial performance through delivery of our company assessment of the potential loss impact from the Principal risks and three business strategies and aligned Innovation, Performance related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain continuity as and Trust priorities.
well as anti-bribery and corruption and any consequent regulatory The Board reviews GSKs strategy and makes significant capital actions or fines, all of which could fundamentally threaten our investment decisions over a long term time horizon, based on a operations.
These risks are managed through mitigating activities multi-year assessment of return on capital, the performance of the described on pages 257 to 266. company and its three business units, and the market opportunity Scenario 4: Put option exercise.
This scenario evaluates the in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer healthcare sectors.
additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential This approach is aligned to GSKs model of achieving balanced exercise of the outstanding put options held by our partners in growth by investing in high quality, innovative products for patients, the HIV and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
However, since many internal The three year review also makes certain assumptions about the and external parameters become increasingly unpredictable over normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers whether longer time horizons, GSK focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan additional financing facilities will be required and the respective level on a three year cycle.
The Plan is reviewed at least annually by the of funding flexibility and headroom.
Directors, who approve business forecasts showing expected financial impact.
The Directors believe that a three year assessment The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations of period for the Viability statement is most appropriate as it aligns with these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding demands on the companys well established business planning processes that GSK and require mitigating changes to the Groups funding strategy.
balance the long term nature of investments in the pharmaceutical, However, in light of the liquidity available to the Group and based on vaccines and consumer healthcare sectors with an assessment of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, even the period over which analysis of near term business performance under the stress tests described above, the company will be able to is realistically visible.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Boards review on risk.
The downside scenarios consider GSKs cash flows, sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance provision and recovery as well as other key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics have been subject to sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually and in combination, along with mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risk.
58 GSK Annual Report 2017 Group financial review continued Reporting framework Presentation of Group results Contingent consideration Our Group financial review discusses the operating and financial GSK has recognised a significant liability for contingent performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial position and consideration 6,172 million at 31 December 2017 on a fair value our resources.
We compare the results for each year primarily with discounted basis of which 5,542 million represented the estimated the results of the preceding year.
present value of future amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare, discounted at 8.5%.
The payments to Shionogi We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report are calculated based on the sales performance over the life of the the performance of our business.
These measures are used by relevant products, principally dolutegravir, as described on page 59. management for planning and reporting purposes and in discussions The effect of the required IFRS accounting treatment is that GSK with and presentations to investment analysts and rating agencies recognises these fair value liabilities on the balance sheet, with and may not be directly comparable with similarly described remeasurement charges reflected immediately in other operating measures used by other companies.
These charges are adjusted from Total results to present be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, or superior Adjusted results.
GSK will make cash payments in the future to to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
discharge this liability which will not be recorded in the profit and Total results loss account and future earnings.
Total reported results represent the Groups overall performance.
Free cash flow However, these results can contain material unusual or nonFrom 2017, adjusted free cash flow is no longer being reported operational items that may obscure the key trends and factors and the free cash flow definition has been amended to include all determining the Groups operational performance.
As a result, contingent consideration payments made during the period.
we also report Adjusted results, which is a non-IFRS measure.
Free cash flow, which is a non-IFRS measure, is now defined as the Adjusted results net cash inflow from operating activities less capital expenditure, As announced on 11 April 2017 in the Change to financial reporting contingent consideration payments, net interest and dividends paid framework press release, from 2017, core results have been to non-controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of property, renamed Adjusted results and, instead of all legal charges and plant and equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and expenses, only significant legal charges and expenses are excluded associates.
It is used by management for planning and reporting in order to present Adjusted results.
All other legal charges and purposes and in discussions with and presentations to investment expenses are included in Adjusted results.
Significant legal charges analysts and rating agencies.
Free cash flow growth is calculated and expenses are those arising from the settlement of litigation or on a reported basis.
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from a government investigation that are not in the normal course and operations to free cash flow is presented on page 71. materially larger than more regularly occurring individual matters.
They also include certain major legacy legal matters.
Any new Free cash flow conversion significant legal matters excluded in order to present Adjusted Free cash flow conversion is free cash flow as a percentage of results will be disclosed at the time.
As a result of the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on Working capital conversion cycle 22 December 2017, GSK has recorded charges on initial application The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number which reduced Total earnings by 1.6 billion, as set out on page 68. of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less Due to their magnitude, GSK has reported these charges as days purchases outstanding.
Adjusting items in 2017 so that they do not obscure the key trends in the Groups operational performance for the year.
CER and AER growth Adjusted results now exclude the following items from Total results: In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice to amortisation and impairment of intangible assets excluding computer discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
software and goodwill: major restructuring costs, including those This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to costs following material acquisitions: significant legal charges net determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had of insurance recoveries and expenses on the settlement of litigation remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
CER% and government investigations, transaction-related accounting represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% or AER% adjustments for significant acquisitions, and other items, including represents growth at actual exchange rates.
disposals of associates, products and businesses and other operating income other than royalty income, together with the tax effects of all of these items and the impact of the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017.
GSK believes that Adjusted results are more representative of the performance of the Groups operations and allow the key trends and factors driving that performance to be more easily and clearly identified by shareholders.
The definition of Adjusted results, as set out above, also aligns the Groups results with the majority of its peer companies and how they report earnings.
Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, as set out on page 67, including detailed breakdowns of the key adjusting items, are provided to shareholders to ensure full visibility and transparency as they assess the Groups performance.
59 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare Trading profit allocations Of the contingent consideration payable on a post-tax basis to Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% of Shionogi at 31 December 2017, 724 million 31 December 2016 its operating results turnover, operating profit, profit after tax are 545 million is expected to be paid within one year.
included within the Group income statement and then a portion Exit rights of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling interests owned Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if by the other shareholders, in line with their respective equity either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not shareholdings Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi 10%.
Each of the completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled to preferential dividends its shareholding.
Under the original agreements, GSK had the determined by the performance of certain products that each unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution shareholder contributed.
As the relative performance of these to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the products changes over time, the proportion of the overall earnings Pfizer put options and, as a result, in accordance with IFRS, GSK of ViiV Healthcare allocated to each shareholder will change.
did not recognise a liability for the put option on its balance sheet.
In particular, the increasing sales of Tivicay and Triumeq have a In Q1 2016, GSK notified Pfizer that it had irrevocably given up favourable impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends this right and accordingly recognised the liability for the put option that is allocated to GSK.
GSK was entitled to approximately on the Groups balance sheet at an initial value of 1,070 million.
80% of the Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2017.
Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1 2016 Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential dividends allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within Adjusting anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi on the items as other operating income.
Acquisition-related arrangements The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizers shareholding As part of the agreement reached to acquire Shionogis interest are as follows: in the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, ViiV 2017 2016 Healthcare agreed to pay additional consideration to Shionogi m m contingent on the performance of the products being developed Pfizer put option 1,304 1,319 by that joint venture, principally dolutegravir.
The liability for this Pfizer preferential dividend 17 23 contingent consideration was estimated and recognised in the Groups balance sheet at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have requested remeasurements are reflected within other operating income GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in six month and within Adjusting items in the income statement.
GSK had the Cash payments are made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution quarter which reduce the balance sheet liability for the contingent to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the consideration and as a result are not recorded in the income Shionogi put option and, as a result, GSK did not recognise a liability statement.
In 2017, the total cash payments made to Shionogi in for the put option on its balance sheet.
In Q1 2016, GSK notified respect of the contingent consideration amounted to 671 million.
Shionogi that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly The payments are calculated based on the sales performance of recognised the liability for the put option on the Groups balance the relevant products in the previous quarter and are reflected in sheet at an initial value of 926 million.
In Q4 2016, Shionogi the cash flow statement partly in operating cash flows and partly irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and as a result GSK within investing activities.
The tax relief on these payments is derecognised the liability for this put option on the Groups balance reflected in the Groups Adjusting items as part of the tax charge.
The value of the liability was 1,244 million The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of the when it was derecognised.
fair value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the GSK also has a call option over Shionogis shareholding in ViiV Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of 659 million is Healthcare, which under the original agreements was exercisable in reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement and six month windows commencing in 2027, 2030 and 2032.
GSK has the part of each payment relating to the increase in the liability since now irrevocably agreed to waive the first two exercise windows, but the acquisition is reported within operating cash flows.
the last six month window in 2032 remains.
As this call option is at Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi were fair value, it has no value for accounting purposes.
as follows: 2017 2016 m m Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 5,304 3,409 Additions 154 Remeasurement through income statement 909 2,162 Cash payments: operating cash flows 587 351 Cash payments: investing activities 84 66 Other movements 4 Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,542 5,304 The additions in 2016 represented the recognition of the preferential dividends payable to Shionogi.
60 GSK Annual Report 2017 Group financial review continued Group turnover Group turnover by geographic region 2016 Turnover bn AER growth CER growth 2017 revised Growth Growth m m % CER% 8% 3% US 11,263 10,197 10 6 30.2bn Europe 7,943 7,476 6 International 10,980 10,216 7 3 30,186 27,889 8 3 2015 23.9 The US sales growth of 10% AER, 6% CER was driven by continued 2016 27.9 strong performances from Triumeq and Tivicay and growth in the Respiratory portfolio, together with strong performances in the US 30.2 2017 from Hepatitis and Meningitis vaccines.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Europe sales grew 6% AER, but were flat at CER as growth from Triumeq, Tivicay and Meningitis vaccines was offset by the decline in Established Pharmaceuticals, including the impact of the disposal of the Romanian distribution business in Q4 2016.
Respiratory sales Group turnover were up 5% AER, but flat at CER, as the decline in Seretide offset 2017 2016 Growth Growth the growth in the new Respiratory products.
m m % CER% Pharmaceuticals 17,276 16,104 7 3 In International, sales growth of 7% AER, 3% CER reflected Vaccines 5,160 4,592 12 6 strong growth in Triumeq, Tivicay and the Respiratory portfolio, with Established Pharmaceuticals flat, including the impact of Consumer Healthcare 7,750 7,193 8 2 divestments.
Growth in Emerging Markets of 8% AER, 4% CER Group turnover 30,186 27,889 8 3 was also impacted by divestments.
Group turnover for the year increased 8% AER, 3% CER to Sales from new Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products 30,186 million, with growth delivered by all three businesses.
2017 2016 Growth Growth Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER, 3% CER, reflecting the m m % CER% continued strong growth of the new Respiratory and HIV products, Respiratory partly offset by declines in older Respiratory products, including Anoro Ellipta 342 201 70 63 Seretide Advair and Established Pharmaceuticals, including the Arnuity Ellipta 35 15 100 100 impact of recent divestments.
Incruse Ellipta 201 114 76 68 Vaccines sales were up 12% AER, 6% CER, reflecting a strong Nucala 344 102 100 100 performance from Meningitis and Influenza vaccines and higher Relvar Breo Ellipta 1,006 620 62 55 demand for Established Vaccines, as well as the benefit of CVMU favourable year-on-year US CDC stockpile movements.
Eperzan Tanzeum 87 121 28 31 Consumer Healthcare sales grew 8% AER, 2% CER reflecting HIV a strong performance from power brands in the Pain and Oral health Tivicay 1,404 953 47 40 categories, partly offset by the impact of continued competitive pressures in the US allergy category and a broader market slowdown Triumeq 2,461 1,735 42 35 in key categories.
In addition, reported growth was impacted by Pharmaceuticals 5,880 3,861 52 45 the Nigerian beverages business divestment in Q3 2016 and the Bexsero 556 390 43 34 implementation of the Goods & Service Tax GST in India on Menveo 274 202 36 29 1 July 2017.
Shingrix 22 Vaccines 852 592 44 36 6,732 4,453 51 44 In 2015, GSK identified a series of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products that were expected to deliver at least 6 billion of revenues per annum on a CER basis by 2020.
Those products are as set out above and do not include Trelegy Ellipta and Juluca, which had initial sales in 2017 of 2 million and 5 million, respectively.
The Group has previously announced its plans to withdraw Tanzeum.
At 2015 exchange rates the equivalent value of the 2017 sales was 5.7 billion.
Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products were 6,732 million, grew 2,279 million in Sterling terms 51% AER, 44% CER and represented approximately 30% of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover in the year.
61 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Respiratory Total Respiratory portfolio sales were up 7% AER, 3% CER, with the Pharmaceuticals US up 8% AER, 3% CER, Europe up 5% AER but flat at CER and International up 9% AER, 5% CER.
Growth of the new Respiratory products more than offset the decline in Seretide Advair.
Turnover bn The new Respiratory products recorded combined sales of 1,930 AER growth CER growth million in 2017 with sales of Ellipta products up 67% AER, 59% CER 7% 3% driven by continued strong growth in the US and the ongoing roll-out 17.3bn across Europe and International.
Sales of Nucala were 344 million, 57% of Group turnover a Sterling increase of 242 million, and included sales of 236 million in the US.
The aggregate growth of the Ellipta products was driven primarily 2015 14.2 by the contribution of the US, where sales were up 72% AER, 65% CER on the back of further market share gains.
Total Relvar Breo 2016 16.1 Ellipta sales grew 62% AER, 55% CER to 1,006 million, with the US up 75% AER, 67% CER to 602 million.
Anoro Ellipta sales 2017 17.3 grew 70% AER, 63% CER to 342 million, also reflecting market 0 5 10 15 20 share gains in the US.
All Ellipta products, Breo, Anoro, Incruse and Arnuity, continued to grow market share in the US in the year.
Seretide Advair sales declined 10% AER, 14% CER to 3,130 million.
Sales in the US declined 12% AER, 16% CER 5% volume Pharmaceuticals turnover decline and a 11% negative impact of price, with payer rebate 2017 2016 Growth Growth adjustments related to prior periods favourably impacting sales in m m % CER% the year.
In Europe, Seretide sales were down 12% AER, 17% CER Respiratory 6,991 6,510 7 3 to 736 million 11% volume decline and a 6% negative impact of HIV 4,350 3,556 22 16 price, reflecting continued competition from generics and the Immuno-inflammation 377 340 11 6 transition of the Respiratory portfolio to newer products.
In Established Pharmaceuticals 5,558 5,698 2 5 International, sales of Seretide declined 5% AER, 8% CER to 17,276 16,104 7 3 784 million 6% volume decline and a 2% negative impact of price, also reflecting increased generic competition and the transition to the Pharmaceuticals turnover in 2017 was 17,276 million, up 7% AER, newer Respiratory products.
Respiratory sales grew 7% AER, 3% CER to 6,991 Pricing pressures also affected other older products with Ventolin million, driven by the Ellipta portfolio and Nucala, while HIV sales sales declining 2% AER, 6% CER to 767 million, including the were up 22% AER, 16% CER to 4,350 million, driven by increases negative impact of payer rebate adjustments related to prior periods in market share for Triumeq and Tivicay.
Sales of Established in the US.
Flixotide Flovent sales were down 6% AER, 10% CER to Pharmaceuticals declined 2% AER, 5% CER, reflecting a three 596 million, with the US down 15% AER, 18% CER.
percentage point impact of recent divestments.
These divestments reduced overall Pharmaceuticals CER growth by one percentage The net impact of adjustments to payer rebates for prior periods point, most significantly impacting the contribution from Europe and across the US Respiratory portfolio was broadly neutral to reported Emerging Markets.
In the US, sales growth of 11% AER, 6% CER was driven by the HIV portfolio and new Respiratory products.
Europe sales grew 3% AER but declined 3% CER, reflecting the continued transition of the Respiratory portfolio and generic competition to Kivexa as well as the disposal of the Romanian distribution business during Q4 2016 which reduced growth by three percentage points.
Reported International sales growth was impacted by the benefit to Q1 2016 of the accelerated sale of inventory under supply agreements to Novartis as well as the disposal of the thrombosis and anaesthesia businesses to Aspen in Q1 2017, which reduced reported growth in International by one percentage point and in Emerging Markets by two percentage points to 7% AER, 5% CER.
Sales in Japan grew 6% AER, 3% CER.
62 GSK Annual Report 2017 Group financial review continued HIV Established Pharmaceuticals HIV sales increased 22% AER, 16% CER to 4,350 million in the Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals in 2017 were 5,558 million, year, with the US up 26% AER, 21% CER, Europe up 10% AER, declining 2% AER, 5% CER, impacted by the comparison with the 3% CER and International up 33% AER, 26% CER.
The growth in accelerated sale of inventory under supply agreements to Novartis in all three regions was driven by continued increases in market share Q1 2016 as well as the disposal of the thrombosis and anaesthesia for Triumeq and Tivicay, partly offset by the impact of generic businesses to Aspen in Q1 2017 and the disposal of the Romanian competition to Epzicom Kivexa, particularly affecting the European distribution business in Q4 2016.
The impact of these disposals on market.
The ongoing increase in patient numbers for both Triumeq the growth of the Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio was and Tivicay resulted in sales of 2,461 million and 1,404 million, approximately three percentage points.
Juluca was approved in the US in The Avodart franchise declined 3% AER, 9% CER to 613 million November 2017, and recorded initial sales of 5 million.
primarily due to the loss of exclusivity in the US and Europe and the Epzicom Kivexa sales declined 59% AER, 61% CER to 234 impact of favourable RAR adjustments in 2016. million, reflecting the ongoing generic competition since Q3 2016.
Dermatology sales grew 16% AER, 11% CER to 456 million, reflecting improved supply in Emerging Markets and growth in Japan, Immuno-inflammation while Augmentin sales grew 4% AER, 2% CER to 587 million.
Sales grew 11% AER, 6% CER in the year.
The negative impact of the divestment of raxibacumab, which recorded strong sales in Q4 2016, was more than offset by the growth of Benlysta, up 23% AER, 17% CER to 375 million, driven by a strong US performance.
63 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Established Vaccines Sales of the DTPa-containing vaccines Infanrix, Pediarix and Vaccines Boostrix were up 5% AER, but flat at CER.
Boostrix sales grew 19% AER, 13% CER, benefiting from higher demand across all regions.
Infanrix, Pediarix sales were down 3% AER, 8% CER, Turnover bn mainly driven by increased competitive pressures in the US and AER growth CER growth Europe, together with a new market entrant in Europe, partly offset by favourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements in the US.
12% 6% 5.2bn Hepatitis vaccines grew 15% AER, 10% CER to 693 million, 17% of Group turnover benefiting from a competitor supply shortage and higher demand in the US, partly offset by the unfavourable impact of CDC stockpile movements in the US and supply constraints in Europe and International.
2015 3.7 Rotarix was up 12% AER, 6% CER to 524 million, reflecting higher 2016 4.6 demand in Europe and International.
2017 5.2 Synflorix sales were up 1% AER, but down 6% CER to 509 million, due to lower pricing in Emerging Markets partly offset by higher 0 1 2 3 4 5 demand elsewhere in International.
Priorix Priorix Tetra Varilrix sales were flat at AER, but down 5% CER to 301 million, mainly due to supply constraints in International.
Vaccines turnover Cervarix sales increased by 65% AER, 57% CER to 134 million, 2017 2016 Growth Growth driven by its recent launch in China.
m m % CER% Meningitis 890 662 34 27 Influenza 488 414 18 12 Shingles 22 Established Vaccines 3,760 3,516 7 1 5,160 4,592 12 6 Vaccines turnover grew 12% AER, 6% CER to 5,160 million, primarily driven by Meningitis vaccines, with Bexsero growing across all regions and Menveo growing in the US and Europe, and higher sales of influenza products, primarily in the US and Europe.
Established Vaccines growth was driven by Hepatitis vaccines, mainly due to a competitor supply shortage in the US, higher demand for Boostrix and Rotarix and the launch of Cervarix in China.
Favourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements for Infanrix, Pediarix and Menveo in the US also contributed to growth.
These were partly offset by increasing competitive pressures on Infanrix, Pediarix in the US and Europe, and lower Synflorix sales, driven primarily by lower pricing in developing countries.
Meningitis Meningitis sales grew 34% AER, 27% CER to 890 million.
Bexsero sales growth of 43% AER, 34% CER was driven by new national immunisation programmes, private market sales and regional tenders in Europe, as well as growing demand and share gains in the US, together with strong private market sales in International.
Menveo sales grew 36% AER, 29% CER, primarily driven by the impact of favourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements, partly offset by supply constraints in International.
Influenza Fluarix FluLaval sales were up 18% AER, 12% CER to 488 million, reflecting strong sales execution, primarily in the US, and higher demand in Europe.
Shingles Shingrix recorded initial sales into the channel of 22 million in the US after its FDA approval and favourable ACIP recommendations.
64 GSK Annual Report 2017 Group financial review continued Wellness Wellness sales grew 7% AER, 2% CER to 4,001 million.
Consumer Healthcare This reflected a strong performance from Voltaren and Cold & flu seasonal products, partly offset by a weaker performance from US allergy products.
Turnover bn Respiratory sales were up 7% AER, 2% CER as strong broadlyAER growth CER growth based growth from Theraflu and Otrivin, particularly in Europe and 8% 2% International, was partly offset by competitive pressures in the US 7.8bn for Flonase OTC from private label products.
26% of Group turnover Pain relief sales were up 10% AER, 4% CER, driven significantly by Voltaren with growth across all regions, benefiting from momentum in the 12-hour variant, strong in-store and marketing 2015 6.0 activation, expansion of expert detailing and strong performances in International markets.
Panadol also grew strongly in Europe, 2016 7.2 benefiting from new advertising campaigns, and in International in low single digits.
Sensodyne continued to drive performance, reporting growth of 12% AER, 8% CER, with strong delivery in all regions following the roll out of next generation Sensodyne Rapid Relief and the launch Consumer Healthcare turnover of Pronamel Strong & Bright.
Sales of parodontax continued to 2017 2016 Growth Growth grow strongly, reflecting double-digit performances in Europe m m % CER% and International, driven by a brand reset and increases in dentist Wellness 4,001 3,726 7 2 recommendations, as well as the US launch in the first quarter.
Oral health 2,466 2,223 11 6 Denture care grew in mid-single digits with double-digit growth Nutrition 680 674 1 5 in emerging markets partly offset by slower consumption growth Skin health 603 570 6 in the US and Germany.
7,750 7,193 8 2 Nutrition Nutrition sales grew 1% AER and declined 5% CER to 680 million, 2016 adversely impacted by the sale of the Nigeria beverages business 2017 revised Growth Growth m m % CER% in Q3 2016 and the implementation of GST on 1 July, as well as continued competitive pressures for Horlicks in India.
The net impact US 1,826 1,761 4 1 of the divestment of the Nigeria beverages business, implementation Europe 2,360 2,169 9 3 of GST offset by the favourable comparison with the impact of International 3,564 3,263 9 4 demonetisation in the prior year reduced Nutrition CER growth 7,750 7,193 8 2 by approximately six percentage points.
Consumer Healthcare turnover was up 8% AER, 2% CER at Skin health 7,750 million, impacted by slower global growth in key categories.
Skin health sales grew 6% AER, but were flat at CER at 603 A strong performance by power brands across Wellness and Oral million, with low single-digit growth in the US, a slight decline health was partly offset by competitive pressures in the US allergy within Europe and International flat.
Fenistil sales grew strongly, category, impacting Flonase OTC, as well as lower sales of tail with good performances in Central & Eastern Europe, Germany brands across the Nutrition and Skin health categories and a broader and the Middle East, following digital activation and new media market slowdown in key categories.
In addition, reported growth was campaigns.
Physiogel and Lamisil continued to be impacted by impacted by the disposal of the Nigeria beverages business in competitor activity, whilst Lip care sales grew in mid-single digits.
Q3 2016 and the implementation of the Goods & Service Tax GST in India in July, the net effects of which were partly offset by the benefit of the comparison with the impact of demonetisation in India in Q4 2016.
The divestment, GST and demonetisation combined to reduce overall Consumer Healthcare CER growth by approximately one percentage point.
Sales from new GSK innovations product introductions within the last three years on a rolling basis represented approximately 13% of sales in the period.
Notable launches this year included parodontax and Flonase Sensimist in the US, the continued global roll out of Flonase OTC and several line extensions for Sensodyne, including next generation Sensodyne Rapid Relief and Sensodyne Deep Clean.
