GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Power Solutions Market Context Power Solutions Industrial For our Power Solutions business, demand has been impacted delivered a strong performance, by the economic cycle across our markets.
Much ofour business is in sectors and countries with exposure to commodities, and particularly in Eurasia.
Power movements in these prices have had an impact.
In our Utility business lower commodity prices have been challenging, Solutions Utility was impacted with this directly impacting liquidity in many of our key byrepricing and off-hires markets reducing both our customers appetite to fund new power projects and their ability to pay in a timely manner.
Our Industrial business is also exposed to commodity prices as many of its customers are involved in production of oil and gas or minerals, but in this segment we have seen growth this year, most significantly in Eurasia.
Competition remains broadly stable, overcapacity still exists within the market but in general competitors are behaving rationally and returns on new projects have remained consistent.
We expect the Industrial business to continue to grow in 2018, particularly as the wider commodity environment continues to improve.
The Utility business tends to lag the Industrial business and should broadly stabilise as the economic cycle improves.
Financial & operating review Overall, our Power Solutions business saw revenue excluding currency and pass-through fuel in line with last year and operating profit pre-exceptional items decrease 26%.
In our Power Solutions Industrial business revenue excluding currency increased 20%.
In Eurasia revenue grew 64% driven by continued strength in the Oil & Gas sector.
In the Middle East revenue grew 7% with good growth in Dubai and Kuwait Stephen Beynon partially offset by a decrease in Saudi Arabia.
Revenue in Africa Managing Director, Power Solutions increased 15%, albeit off a low base, with particular strength in Nigeria and Angola.
In Asia, revenue was flat, while in LatinAmerica the restructuring work and cost base reduction has progressed well and, despite revenue being down 15%, operating profit pre-exceptional items was up by 7 million.
We also benefited from the first tranche of revenue from the We are addressing the South Korea Winter Olympics 17 million.
underperformance of our Our Power Solutions Utility business saw revenue excluding currency and pass-through fuel decrease 9% due to repricing Utilitybusiness, which has and off-hires in Argentina, which represented a reduction of 59 million on 2016.
Excluding the impact of Argentina, taken longer than anticipated.
1 revenue was in line with the prior year.
The operating margin The Industrial business is decreased to 18% 2016: 29% : this was driven by a number of factors, including the flow through from Argentina, an increase performingwell and I am pleased in the debtor provision, and one-off benefits in the prior year comparatives, most notably in indirect tax and service material with the progress that has been costs.
Excluding the impact of Argentina, the operating 1 margin decreased by four percentage points.
In Argentina made restructuring the business weexpect our existing fixed site contract, providing 174 MW, and further reducing our cost base.
tobe extended until the end of 2018 at a discount to the current rates.
The standby contract of 30 MW is in the process of fully demobilising.
Industrial underlying operating profit up 53% Utility impacted by legacy contracts in Argentina Utility debtor provision increased by $23 million 66 MW of Next Generation Gas contracts won 1 PSU reconciliation excluding Argentina is detailed on page 44.
40 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS UNIT PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Power Solutions Revenue Operating Profit Change Change excl.
passpassthrough through fuel and fuel and Pre-exceptional items million 2017 2016 Change currency 2017 2016 Change currency Industrial 340 262 30% 20% 55 32 71% 53% Utility excl.
pass-through fuel 18% 29% Total Power Solutions excl.
pass-through fuel 17% 24% Revenue Operating Profit Change Change excl.
passpassthrough through fuel and fuel and Post-exceptional items million 2017 2016 Change currency 2017 2016 Change currency Industrial 340 262 30% 20% 44 29 52% 34% Utility excl.
pass-through fuel 15% 28% Total Power Solutions excl.
pass-through fuel 14% 23% We continued to see delays in customer payments in Sector performance PowerSolutions Utility, in particular on a handful of projects During the year, the strongest sector was Oil & Gas fuelled in Africa and as a result of the ongoing economic situation by high growth in Eurasia, where we benefited from our inVenezuela.
Our overdue debt provision increased through customers continued drive for high output coupled with an the year by $23 million to $86 million to reflect these issues.
increasing propensity to rent as a means of reducing capital expenditure.
Oil & Gas continues to be our primary sector Overall order intake for the year in our Power Solutions Utility inthe Middle East, albeit with some price pressure from our business was 799 MW 2016: 1,057 MW.
New business included customers, and continues to grow in Latin America.
The Utility 295 MW in Bangladesh, 78 MW in Malawi, 60 MW in Yemen sector remained subdued with liquidity pressures impacting and 60 MW in Sri Lanka.
We are pleased to have won 66 MW both new project activity and timeliness of payments, ofNext Generation Gas contracts in addition to the 41 MW won especially in Africa.
Events had a good year, with part of the in Rental Solutions as well as initial contracts for HFO 28 MW, South Korea Winter Olympics impacting the second half Madagascar and solar-diesel 7 MW, Eritrea.
Our sales pipeline of 2017. for HFO and NGG contains a number of opportunities which are well progressed.
Outlook We expect to deliver continued growth in 2018 in our Industrial At the end of the period, our order book was over 78,000 MW months, the equivalent of 30 months revenue at the current business as the impacts of our restructuring take effect and market conditions continue to improve.
In Utility we are run-rate 2016: 22 months, albeit off a lower revenue base.
anticipating increased traction from our new technology with astrengthening pipeline for both HFO and Next Generation Gas laying the foundations for 2019 and beyond.
However, with the off-hire of Japan and market conditions remaining challenging, we expect a lower performance year on year.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 41 FINANCIAL REVIEW 1.
We operate in attractive markets which Why invest in Aggreko?
provide significant opportunity for growth Our objective is to be the global Global megatrends underpin an increasing demand for power whilst climate concerns require ever more specialist in modular, mobile innovative solutions energy services and related In emerging markets there is a structural power deficit, whilstin developed markets decarbonisation and solutions.
Acting as apartner decentralisation are increasingly impacting energy services We are focused on seven core sectors and use our expertise to our customers throughthe and leading technology to provide specialist solutions to our energy transition, weaim to customers, which often save money, optimise performance or simply keep the lights on deliversustainable long-term value to allour stakeholders.
Read more about our markets on page 8 2.
W e have several important competitive advantages that make us unique in our markets Specialised engineered solutions Integrated renewables and storage Sector expertise Flexible and reliable technology Ability to adapt to changing market conditions Strong health & safety and ethical culture Read more about our business model on page 12 3.
W e are strengthening these competitive advantages through our strategic priorities Tailoring solutions to improve customer experience Reducing the total cost of energy through innovation Optimising deployment of resources Cultivating a high performance organisation Read more about our strategic priorities on page 14 4.
T he combination of attractive markets, our competitive advantages and our strategic priorities will generate sustainable returns forall our stakeholders Support industry and commerce Provide critical services to countries and communities Rewarding careers for our people Sustainable returns for Shareholders Read more about stakeholder engagement page 74 42 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION A summarised Income Statement for 2017 as well as related Exceptional items ratios are set out below.
The first table excludes exceptional An exceptional charge of 41 million before tax was recorded in items and the second table includes exceptional items.
the year to 31 December 2017 in respect of the implementation of the Groups Business Priorities programme.
These costs Pre-exceptional items include employment costs, professional fees, severance costs Change excl.
and facility closure costs directly related to the programme.
pass-through 2017 2016 fuel and Interest m m Change currency The net interest charge of 34 million was 7 million higher Revenue 1,730 1,515 14% 4% than last year, reflecting higher average net debt year on year Operating profit 229 248 8 % 10 % and an increase in the effective interest rate.
Interest cover, Net interest expense 34 27 28 % measured against rolling 12-month EBITDA Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortisation remained Profit before tax 195 221 12 % strong at 16 times 2016: 20 times relative to thefinancial Taxation 57 63 9% covenant attached to our borrowing facilities that Profit after tax 138 158 13 % EBITDAshould be no less than four times interest.
Diluted earnings Capital structure & dividends per share pence 53.94 61.95 13 % The objective of our strategy is to deliver long-term value Operating margin 13% 16% 3 pp toShareholders while maintaining a balance sheet structure ROCE 11% 13% 2 pp that safeguards the Groups financial position through economic cycles.
Given the risk profile of the Group we believe gearing of around one times net debt to EBITDA is Post-exceptional items appropriate, recognising that from time to time it may be Change excl.
higher for a period of time as investment opportunities present pass-through themselves.
From a capital allocation perspective our priority 2017 2016 fuel and is to invest in organic growth.
As well as investing organically, m m Change currency there are opportunities for growth through acquisition, both Revenue 1,730 1,515 14% 4% for scale and capability, including into product adjacencies Operating profit 188 199 6 % 7 % such as temperature control and loadbanks.
Acquisitions are Net interest expense 34 27 28 % subject toour disciplined capital allocation process and will have to meet appropriate hurdle rates of return.
While our Profit before tax 154 172 11 % first priority is investment to generate growth, we recognise Taxation 48 47 1 % the importance of the dividend in providing value to our Profit after tax 106 125 15 % Shareholders.
Finally, as and when the opportunity arises, we will look at returning surplus capital to Shareholders.
Diluted earnings per share pence 41.51 48.86 15 % The retained earnings of the Company as at 31 December 2017 are 428 million and the majority of these earnings Operating margin 11% 13% 2 pp are distributable.
ROCE 9% 10% 1 pp Subject to Shareholder approval the proposed final dividend of 17.74 pence will result in a full year dividend of 27.12 pence Currency translation 2016: 27.12 pence per Ordinary Share, givingdividend cover The movement in exchange rates in the period had the Basic EPS pre-exceptional items divided by full year declared translational impact of increasing revenue by 84 million and dividend of 2.0 times 2016: 2.3times.
Dividend cover operating profit by 9 million.
This was driven by the strength, post-exceptional items is 1.5 times 2016: 1.8 times.
against Sterling, of nearly all the principal currencies impacting the Group, but most notably the US Dollar.
Currency translation Cash flow also gave rise to a 98 million decrease in the value of net assets.
The net cash inflow from operations during the year totalled Set out in the table below are the principal exchange rates 450 million 2016: 388 million.
The increase in cash inflow which affected the Groups income statement and net assets.
from operations was mainly driven by the reduction in the 2017 2016 working capital outflow of 68 million.
This operating cash flow funded capital expenditure of 272 million 2016: 263 million, per Sterling Average Year end Average Year end of which 246 million 2016: 241 million was spent on fleet.
Principal Exchange Rates The working capital movements are explained on page 37.
Note ii the currency impact is calculated by taking 2016 numbers in local currency and retranslating them at 2017 average rates.
Group and PSU Reconciliation excluding Argentina PSU Group 2017 2016 Change 2017 2016 Change m m % m m % Revenue excl.
pass-through fuel and currency impact 531 592 9 % 1,591 1,539 4% 53 112 Less Argentina 53 112 478 480 % 1,538 1,427 9% Operating profit pre-exceptional items excl.
pass-through fuel and currency impact 96 166 42 % 232 257 10 % 23 73 Less Argentina 23 73 73 93 23 % 209 184 13% Operating Margin ex pass-through fuel 18% 29% 14% 17% Operating Margin ex pass-through fuel & Argentina 15% 19% 14% 13% Taxation Our approach towards dealing with tax authorities We seek to build good working relationships with local tax Tax Strategy authorities based on trust, respect and professionalism.
We operate in an increasingly complex global environment, We willproactively engage, either directly or through local doing business in over 80 countries, many of which have advisers, with the authorities to ensure that our business uncertain or volatile tax regimes.
To ensure that our tax affairs andtax positions are understood and to confirm our tax are correctly and consistently managed, Aggrekos tax strategy positions in a timely manner.
is applied to all taxes in all countries in which we operate.
Our tax strategy is reviewed and revalidated annually, and Tax governance is revised as appropriate to reflect any material changes in Our tax governance framework is encompassed within our business or in tax legislation.
Our strategy is to ensure aset of documented policies and procedures covering the that we pay, in a timely manner, the appropriate amount application of the strategy and operational aspects of tax.
of tax commensurate with the activities performed in each Ultimate responsibility for tax risk and tax operations rests country in which we operate.
In particular, we recognise the with our Chief Financial Officer, with day-to-day responsibility importance of the tax we pay to the economic development delegated to the Director of Tax and the tax function.
To ensure of the countries in which operate.
We aim to be transparent that we fully understand our tax obligations and any legislative in terms of the geographic spread of where we pay tax with change, advisory and technical support is provided by large abreakdown provided in figures 1-3. accounting firms with which the Group has a long association.
The use of the Groups external auditor for advisory work is In applying the tax strategy, we undertake to comply with the not permitted.
applicable tax legislation in all countries in which we operate utilising, where appropriate, any available legislative reliefs.
44 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Approach to tax risk Legislative change The Groups appetite for risk, including tax risk, is reviewed Through the course of 2017, while we continued to monitor regularly by the Group Risk Committee and ratified annually global legislative change driven largely as a result of the by the Board.
Given the risk profile of many of the countries OECDswork on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS and in which we operate, we seek to structure our tax affairs in Country-By-Country Reporting CBCR, our main focus has a way that has a low degree of risk.
Only the Director of Tax been on the tax reform agenda in the US.
We anticipate that is permitted to consider any tax planning opportunities and going forward, the US tax reform will have a positive impact permission to implement any planning must be obtained on our tax position.
While the process of assessing the full fromthe Board or Finance Committee as appropriate.
impact of the US tax reform is ongoing, due to the relative We donot actively seek to implement any tax planning size ofthe US business in comparison to the rest of the Group thatisnot driven by commercial aims or where the sole wedo not anticipate that the impact of this rate change on aimisto deliver tax benefit.
the Group tax rate will be material.
We do however recognise that the interpretation of new legislation can be subjective Tax management and provisioning inthe periodimmediately following implementation and Given the complex, uncertain and often volatile nature of wetherefore continue to follow developments in this area.
the tax environment in many of the countries in which we As the UKs Brexit negotiations with the EU continue, we are operate, local compliance and governance are key areas of closely following developments.
However, at this stage we focus.
This is particularly so for our Power Solutions business, continue to believe that Brexit will have not have a material where we may only be in a country on a temporary basis.
While we will always seek to manage our tax affairs to agree and confirm our tax positions in a timely manner, it can often Taxes Paid take some time to settle our tax position and uncertainties In 2017, Aggrekos worldwide operations resulted in direct may exist for some time with respect to complex or changing andindirect tax payments of 228 million 2016: 215 million legislation.
We may therefore need to create tax provisions to tax authorities in the various countries in which we operate.
for any potential uncertain tax positions.
These provisions This amount represents all corporate taxes paid on operations, are based on reasonable estimates of the possible outcomes payroll taxes paid and collected, import duties, sales taxes and management then uses its judgement to determine andother local taxes.
the appropriate level of provision, taking into account thatdifferences of interpretation may arise depending Fig.
1: Total taxes paid by region m onanumberof different factors.
80 As at 31 December 2017 we held tax provisions totalling 70 31 million, of which 29 million is in respect of direct taxes 60 and 2 million for indirect taxes 2016: 39 million, 37 million for direct and 2 million for indirect taxes.
The movement 50 in provisions between 2016 and 2017 is principally due to the 40 utilisation of a provision in respect of an ongoing matter in 30 Bangladesh, which has now been referred to the High Court and is likely to take several years to be resolved.
Supported by 20 strong legal opinion, we believe that we have a robust defence 10 on this issue and therefore no further amounts have been provided in respect of this matter.
The remaining provisions 0 Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin Middle North areprincipally held to manage the tax impact of various Pacic America East America potential historic tax exposures, largely in connection with 2017 2016 our Power Solutions Utilities business in Africa and Latin America, and potential transfer pricing risks faced by the Fig.
2: Total corporate taxes paid and collected by region m Groupwithrespect to how we transact internationally within the business.
In order to ensure that all potential risks are 30 properly understood and mitigated, we look to ensure that 25 ourlocal tax filings are made on a timely basis, appropriate advice is taken and that we proactively work with local tax 20 authorities when issues arise.
15 The risk that the application of management judgements andestimates in our tax forecasting fails to represent a 10 true and fair view of our tax position is an area that receives 5 significant focus from management, tax advisers and the Groups external auditor.
In order to mitigate this risk, our 0 tax position isinternally reviewed four times per year by -5 the Grouptax team and any unanticipated variances to the Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin Middle North Pacic America East America forecast are reconciled and explained.
In addition to the 2017 2016 work done by the Groups external auditor to confirm the appropriateness of our tax provisioning, tax is a matter that In comparison to the prior year, corporate taxes paid in 2017 isregularly considered and discussed by the Audit Committee.
increased by 5 million to 69 million.
While there were small The Groups Internal Auditteam will also consider any relevant increases in several countries, the main increase was in the tax risks as part of its core assurance programme and report USwhere we had a refund position in 2016 due to the late onthese tomanagement as appropriate.
extension of the accelerated tax depreciation regime, which was not repeated in 2017.
These increases were partially offset by a large decrease of the tax paid in Latin America, driven by the reduction of profits in Argentina following the off-hiring of equipment.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 45
