38 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties Principal Risks and Uncertainties The table below summarises the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
Control of each of these is critical to the ongoing success of the business.
As such, their management is primarily the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the Group Management Team GMT, together with the roles noted below.
The Board has finalised its assessment of these risks and has concluded that the likelihood of these principal risks affecting the business has remained at the level previously reported.
We maintain a Sustainability and Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Register to monitor other sustainability issues that could affect the Group.
In addition, our climate change related risks and opportunities are available as part of our 2017 CDP submission.
More information is available at www.
co. uk corporate Risk Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2017 Our ability to build great Unforeseen delays, our We operate within our Our customer and community Government policy and A places to live is dependent inability to obtain suitable comprehensive community engagement strategy is planning regulations upon creating site plans planning consents and led planning strategy.
This embedded and having a The National Planning Policy Framework which inspire and delight our disruption from changes to improves communications positive effect.
We have been NPPF and the Localism Act 2011 are well customers, delivered at an planning regulations, could with all parties, but especially successful in gaining planning established, although are insufficient to affordable price.
Obtaining impact on the number or type local communities, thereby consents throughout the year deliver greater housing availability for the timely planning permissions of homes that we build.
enhancing our ability to deliver with particular emphasis on UK.
Additional initiatives and legislative and and achieving other regulatory developments that meet local the conversion of the strategic With the introduction of regulatory amendments have been requirements and permits, is requirements.
regulation from the Housing signalled by a Housing White Paper, key to starting on site as soon White Paper, we may be We continually review We continue to represent the published in February 2017, with as possible and home required to meet higher levels changes to Building Group, via the HBF, on consultations continuing through the year delivery.
of planning obligations, so Regulations and supporting broader planning and local and into 2018.
Consultation on There remains a risk of incurring additional costs.
plan matters, to ensure local amendments to the NPPF is expected in delayed or refused planning plans are robust and CIL The locally produced CIL We consult with Government spring 2018. applications, increased charge schedules are charge schedules may agencies and opposition Since April 2013, the Government-backed timescales to the discharge of appropriate.
We have met increase costs, impacting the parties on housing policy, Help to Buy HtB scheme has helped to planning conditions and with Government officials on a viability of developments in both directly and indirectly as fund the home deposit for certain greater complexity around number of occasions through our short term landbank.
a member of industry groups, homebuyers.
The Government has Section 106 since the the year including discussions Where CIL charges are not in to highlight potential issues announced the schemes extension to introduction of the on HtB.
place, there could be an and to understand any 2021, however, there is potential for Community Infrastructure impact on gaining planning proposed changes to change to the scheme rules, for both the Levy CIL.
consent or Judicial Review regulations and policy.
buyer and the seller, and ultimately its As all elements of the challenge.
anticipated changes from the review from 2017 is still being The Housing White Paper and changes to Housing White Paper are considered and resulting the HtB scheme could have a disruptive clarified, and if the terms of changes may be disruptive, effect on the planning system, sales rates, HtB are amended, there impacting volumes and site mixes and customer behaviour.
could be a change in demand contribution per plot.
In turn, The Review of Building Regulations and Changes to Building this may lead to changes to Fire Safety, headed by Dame Judith Hackitt Regulations on tall and other site mixes, and to extended the Hackitt Review following the Grenfell buildings, although likely to be timeframes to gaining revised fire tragedy in June 2017, is expected to limited in impact to the Group, planning consents.
deliver its final report in late spring 2018. could introduce delays to While looking primarily at the fire safety of implementation and re-work tall buildings, the review is wide ranging, to current and other sites and taking in the regulatory frameworks around increased costs.
the design, construction and management Together, these changes of buildings, the advice and guidance that could have a detrimental supports those regulatory frameworks and impact on the contribution the responsibilities of those involved.
may have a significant impact on the Removal of HtB completely regulatory framework.
Changes to building could see slower sales rate regulations are usually forward looking in particularly from first time terms of implementation and it is expected buyers, and potentially a that recommended changes will generally greater number of smaller need to be complied with in required homes required by our timeframes.
Sir Oliver Letwin is undertaking a review the Letwin Review on the gap between planning permissions and starts on site.
The review is ongoing and the conclusions of the review are expected to appear over the next few months.
Responsibility Group Operations Director Regional Managing Directors Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Risk Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2017 The majority of the homes A reduction in demand for Our local teams select the We continue to promote the Impact of market B that we build are sold to new homes below normal locations and home designs Government backed HtB environment on mortgage individual purchasers who levels could negatively impact that best meet the needs of scheme and our customers availability and demand take on mortgages to finance on both profit and cash the local community and demonstrate strong demand their purchases.
This would have customer demand in the for the scheme.
We are The cost of servicing a mortgage continues an adverse effect on return on present and future.
We monitoring usage of HtB by to be at historic lows.
However, a change in Loss of economic confidence net operating assets and cash evaluate new outlet openings our customer base to business confidence, employment as a result of the terms the generation.
on the basis of local market understand how any change opportunities or significant changes in the UK agrees on leaving the EU, conditions and regularly to the scheme, or its Bank of England base rate that is not may impact on demand for review the pricing and withdrawal, may impact the combined with wage growth could impact new build housing and sales incentives that we offer.
desired design and location of the demand for housing, which may also prices.
This may be tempered homes required in the future.
lead to lower selling prices.
to some extent by the current We work closely with the imbalance between demand financial services industry to Throughout 2017 we have The ability of first time buyers to purchase and supply.
ensure customers receive continued to develop good homes is constrained by changes in advice on the procurement of working relationships with mortgage availability at the higher However, future decisions mortgage products.
The Governmentmade by the Government lenders and those wishing to backed HtB scheme helps to fund the around homebuyer initiatives, increase volume within the home-deposit for these and other new legislation, stamp duty new build market.
10 billion additional funding and the Bank of England was announced at the Conservative Party about interest rates, are likely Conference in 2017 to support the HtB to create both risks and scheme until its currently programmed end opportunities for in 2021.
There is potential for change to the homebuilders and their scheme rules and ultimately its customers.
Sustained growth in interest rates and low wage inflation could challenge mortgage affordability.
Strict guidelines are in place for lenders to assess mortgage affordability if interest rates were to rise.
Furthermore, the Bank of England has powers to set loan-to-value and debt-to-income limits for financial institutions selling residential mortgages.
Responsibility UK Sales and Marketing Director Regional Sales and Marketing Directors We aim to commence work If the availability of We maintain regular contact With the growth in Material costs and C on new sites as soon as subcontractors or materials is with suppliers, negotiating housebuilding, availability of availability of planning consents allow, to insufficient to meet demand, contract volumes, pricing and materials is generally in line subcontractors accelerate build progress and this could lead to longer build duration.
We provide high with demand but there remain optimise return on capital times and increased costs, level and site-specific pinch points with key A continued increase in housing production employed.
The majority of thereby reducing profitability programme information to the products such as bricks, may further strain the already reduced work performed on our sites and return on capital subcontractor base to aid blocks and roof tiles.
The cost availability of skilled subcontractors and is subcontracted, providing employed.
of these key products has materials and put pressure on utility firms to flexibility and supporting our risen significantly and whilst keep up with the pace of installation.
Lack of skilled subcontractors When selecting our strategy.
other material costs have Further, leaving the EU could impact on the could also result in higher subcontractors, we consider been stable in 2017 we are availability of skilled workers given the levels of waste being competencies particularly in experiencing more cost relatively large proportion of the labour produced from our sites and relation to health and safety, pressure coming into 2018. force, particularly in the South East, that is lower build quality.
quality, previous performance The supply of quality from Eastern Europe.
Together, this could and financial stability.
subcontractors and labour result in build programme and completion We are well underway with a generally remains challenging.
delays and unexpected cost increases.
project to take on more direct The Group has agreed labour across the majority of product lines and volumes Responsibility trades.
with key suppliers to mitigate Group Operations Director We are assessing alternative long lead times and Head of Procurement build methods to reduce shortages.
reliance on traditional brick Regional Commercial Directors We are continuing to trial and block techniques and several different build resources.
We work to methods as alternatives to address the skills shortage conventional brick and block.
with apprenticeship schemes and the Construction Industry Training Board.
co. uk 40 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2017 Our business model requires Not filling critical roles or We monitor employee We extended the Ability to attract and retain D significant input from skilled having a significantly changing turnover levels closely and management training and high-calibre employees people to deliver quality work force could lead to conduct exit interviews to graduate programme in Recruiting employees with inadequate skills homes and communities.
delays in build, quality issues, identify any areas for response to emerging gaps in or in insufficient numbers, or not being able There continues to be reduced sales levels, poor improvement.
We benchmark our pipeline, leading to an to retain key staff with the right skills for the competition amongst customer service and our remuneration to ensure increase in trainee and future, could have a detrimental impact on employers in the reduced profitability.
that we are competitive within graduate numbers and the our business.
types of programme we offer.
construction industries for Clear succession plans are in 2017 saw the trial of a new Responsibility sector-specific staff.
place for key roles within the Academy for Customer Shortages exist across the Group HR Director Group.
Our renewed Excellence, to improve the industry in the main manual approach to succession skills and confidence of our Every employee managing people trades and in certain planning enabled more customer facing employees.
managerial and professional internal candidates to be The Production Academy, occupations.
This could promoted to senior roles.
We launched in 2016, saw the impact our ability to achieve hold regular development first graduates and over 200 our strategic goals.
reviews to identify training site-based staff have requirements.
progressed through the Academy or are currently completing the course.
We have increased the numbers of apprentices, both direct and indirect, in the year.
Land is a valuable resource Purchasing poor quality or Our land teams prepare The short term land market Land E for the Group.
mispriced land, or incorrectly annual Land Strategy remained benign throughout purchasing timing land purchases would documents to guide their land 2017, albeit there is significant Limited availability of The purchase of land of poor quality, at too have a detrimental impact on searches to match the needs variation in competition for good-quality land at an high a price, or incorrect timing of land our profitability and return on of each individual business.
small sites compared with attractive price throughout the purchases in relation to the economic cycle capital employed.
They select and appraise larger sites.
We continued to housing cycle can lead to could impact future profitability.
each site, with the appraisal invest in value-creating land significant and unsustainable Acquiring insufficient land process ensuring that each opportunities, maintaining competition.
The disciplined would reduce our ability to Responsibility project is financially viable, strong discipline on quality, purchasing of land of the actively manage our land consistent with our strategy margin and return on capital Divisional Managing Directors appropriate quality, on portfolio and create value for and appropriately authorised.
attractive terms and at the shareholders.
Regional Managing Directors right time and scale in the We strive to be the developer We are mindful of external Regional Land and Planning Directors economic cycle, will enhance of choice, through a factors and continue to Strategic Land Managing Directors the Groups ability to deliver comprehensive approach critically assess opportunities sustainable margins and encompassing land vendors, for robustness in changing return on capital employed land agents, local councils circumstances.
The strong through the cycle.
level of conversion from the strategic pipeline means our Our strategic land teams work reliance on purchasing short alongside regional businesses term land is diminished, to identify and secure land providing some insulation with the potential for future from land price increases.
development and to promote it through the planning system.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Risk Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2017 Our operations involve, and In addition to the potentially A comprehensive Health, Safety and We continue to compare very Site and product F interface with, a large number tragic personal impact of an Environmental HSE Management System favourably with the UK safety of people.
This ranges from accident on site or after is embedded throughout the business, housebuilding and Construction sites and employees and customer completion, there is supported by policies and procedures to construction industry in terms operations can present risk to subcontractors to customers potential for legal proceedings ensure that we provide a safe and healthy of site safety.
Our Annual health and safety.
Suitable and their families who live on, and civil, financial penalties, working environment and build homes that Injury Incidence Rate AIIR for and sufficient controls to or visit, our sites each day.
reputational damage and comply with the required regulations.
reportable injuries is below the eliminate or reduce the risk We want everyone to go delay to the sites progress.
normal range for the industry.
We provide extensive HSE training for our must be constantly home at the end of the day 2017 saw an AIIR for employees and provide HSE inductions implemented, monitored and uninjured and healthy.
reportable injuries at a record and regular Site Safe Briefings for our measured.
Unsafe practices low of 152 per 100,000 Although the majority of our contractors and operatives.
by our employees or employees from 28 injuries developments comprise Blue Hat support teams from our subcontractors, and unsafe 2016: 211 from 36 injuries, houses and low-rise contractor base are integrated into our site product quality, have the The number of injuries apartment buildings, there are management teams, where they assist our potential to cause death or classed as major was a number of buildings which site managers to communicate the HSE serious injury.
54 in 2017 53 in 2016. are at or above 18 metres in ethos and support maintaining a safe site.
The fire at Grenfell Tower, the height.
During 2017, as a result of Following guidance from the Governments subsequent public scrutiny of our incident trend analysis, Independent Expert Advisory Panel, we the relevant regulations and there was an increased focus have identified all buildings over 18 metres the interim report of the on site housekeeping and our six storeys constructed by or for Taylor Hackitt Review, have all groundworks operations.
Wimpey, which have Aluminium Composite brought to light that We have continued our Material ACM.
Where buildings have been throughout the industry, supervising safely training, identified with the ACM cladding system, cladding systems to tall with over 4,820 groundworks we have notified the persons responsible buildings require review.
supervisors trained and HSE for those buildings and have directed them training for our Blue Hat to the interim mitigation advice from Responsibility support workers as part of Government.
Director of Health, Safety and our Creating a Site Team Where appropriate, we have also followed Environment Approach initiative.
Government advice in seeking independent Group Operations Director In light of Government advice professional advice on any further action on tall buildings, we have Group Director of Design that should be taken.
undertaken expert reviews on Every employee and All HSE issues are reviewed by the GMT on a number of buildings.
subcontractor a timely basis and actions put in place to rectify issues and help prevent a recurrence.
by Government policy, planning regulation and the mortgage market.
Assessment of Prospects However, the Board considers that the Company has reasonable visibility We consider the long term prospects of the Group in light of our business over a five-year time horizon.
This period aligns with the average build out model.
Our strategy to deliver sustainable value is achieved through time for a development phase from the point of land acquisition to final delivering high-quality homes in the locations where people want to live, delivery to our customers.
with excellent customer service, whilst carefully managing our cost base and the Groups balance sheet.
Management re-evaluates the medium to The viability assessment includes the Groups income statement, balance long term strategy, in the light of external, economic and industry changes.
sheet, cash flows, KPIs and debt covenants, and considers the potential If appropriate, management adapts the strategy accordingly, in light of impacts which may arise from the Principal Risks of the business as changes: for example, for material changes in planning and the wider described on pages 38 to 41.
It includes macro-economic and industryhousing market fundamentals.
The Group strategy is underpinned by our wide projections as well as matters specific to the Group.
short term landbank, which supports 5.1 years of development at current The assessment considers sensitivity analysis on a series of realistically completion levels.
Additionally, the Group ensures a strong, long term possible, but severe and prolonged, changes to principal assumptions.
This supply of land, with its Strategic Land business promoting land through the downside scenario reflected the potential impact of declining customer constrained planning process.
The Group has c. 8 years supply of land at confidence, disposable incomes, and higher interest rates as may be current completion levels in its strategic land pipeline.
experienced as a secondary impact to the Group from the UK leaving the EU.
As such, we reduced volumes by 30% and selling prices by 20% over the first Viability Statement two years, with no recovery.
The assessment also reflects the potential In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate consequences of changes to our Principal Risks, including an increase to build Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the costs of 10% and an adverse price movement of 10% in the land market.
We Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going also considered mitigating actions, assuming continued investment in land, Concern provision.
Whilst our operating plan covers a period of three years, albeit at a reduced level, and the continued payment of the annual ordinary the Board conducted their viability assessment for a period of five years, dividend of 150 million throughout the period.
Based on the results of this which is an increase of two years since 2016, to better reflect the forecast analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be period that the Board considers.
The Company operates in a market which able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the is prone to cyclicality, tending to follow the UK economic cycle.
It is impacted five-year period of their assessment.
