1 18 8 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: PELLET PRODUCTION GROWTH, INCREASED PRODUCTION AND POSITIVE EBITDA 6m EBITDA 822kt 136m Pellets produced Revenues Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 19 19 CASE STUDY Low-cost, high-impact PELLET PRODUCTION capacity increase Our pellets provide a sustainable, low-carbon fuel source one that can be safely and By-products of higher value wood industries, such as sawdust from sawmills, efficiently delivered through our global offer a low-cost source of residues for use in our pellet production process supply chain and used by Draxs Power and during 2017 we added an additional 150k tonnes of capacity at our pellet Generation business to make renewable plants to allow us to use more of this material.
By investing in giant hydraulic electricity for the UK.
Our manufacturing platforms known as truck dumps, operators at Amite and Morehouse can operations also promote forest health by unload a 50-foot truck carrying either sawdust or wood chips and weighing incentivising local landowners to actively 60 tonnes in less than two minutes, increasing processing capacity, reducing manage and reinvest in their forests.
the cost of processing and increasing the use of lower cost residues.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW Find out more: www.
com truckdumps and Safety remains our primary concern and www.
com sustainability sourcing we have delivered year-on-year reduction in the level of recordable incidents.
Output at our Amite and Morehouse pellet plants increased signicantly, although was below our target for the year.
We have remained focused on opportunities total installed capacity to 1.1million In April, in line with our strategy to increase tonnes and increasing the amount of self-supply, we acquired a 450k tonne wood to improve efficiencies and capture cost savings as part of our drive to produce lower cost sawmill residues we are able pellet plant LaSalle Bioenergy LaSalle.
good quality pellets at the lowest possible to process and used in our pellets.
Commissioning of the plant began in cost.
We still have more work to do in this November 2017 and we expect to increase area to optimise quality and cost, as our At our Baton Rouge port facility greater production through 2018.
LaSalle is within performance was below target for the year.
volumes of production from our facilities a 200-mile radius of our existing facilities.
drove higher levels of throughput By leveraging the locational benets of As part of our plans to optimise and with 17 vessels loaded and dispatched these assets we aim to deliver further improve operations we added 150k tonnes during the year 2016: 11 vessels.
capacity at our existing plants, bringing 2 20 0 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: PELLET PRODUCTION CONTINUED CASE STUDY Locational benefits ofGulfcluster The location of our operations allows us to leverage benets of multiple assets and locations for operational efficiencies All sites within 200-mile radius US ports and transit sites Operational efficiencies Common plant and joint strategic spare parts Maximise reliability, minimise capital outlay Flexibility through outage cycle Human capital Shared logistics to Baton Rouge Rail and road Increased port throughput Complementary bre sourcing Optimisation of supply between plants Find out more: www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 21 21 PELLET PRODUCTION FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2016 m m Revenue 135.7 73.6 Cost of sales 96.7 55.5 Gross profit 39.0 18.1 Operating costs 33.5 24.4 EBITDA 5.5 6.3 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Area KPI Unit of measure 2017 2016 Operations Fines at disport % 9.6 7.6 Operations Output, 000 tonnes 822 607 Financial Variable cost tonne $ tonne 77 82 FINANCIAL RESULTS LOOKING AHEAD There was a significant improvement in Through 2018 we expect to continue 2017, with EBITDA of 5.5 million 2016: to deliver growth in EBITDA from our 6.3 million negative EBITDA, driven existing assets.
Our focus is on the by increasing volumes of wood pellets commissioning of LaSalle alongside produced and sold to the Power Generation opportunities for optimisation and business.
Sales of pellets in the year efficiencies in our processes, to deliver ending 31 December 2017 totalled 136 good quality pellets at the lowest cost.
million, an increase of 84% over 2016.
We remain alert to market opportunities Gross margin increased, reflecting higher to develop further capacity as part production volumes.
Raw bre procurement, of our self-supply strategy.
transportation and processing comprised the majority of cost of sales and as such this remains an important area of focus and an opportunity for the business.
Through incremental investment in plant enhancements we expect to see further benets from efficiencies and greater utilisation of lower cost residues.
Total operating costs have increased, reflecting an increase in operations at Amite, Morehouse and the Port of Baton Rouge, alongside the addition of LaSalle.
We acquired LaSalle for $35million and have invested an additional $27 million as part of a programme to return the unit to service.
2 22 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: POWER GENERATION A FLEXIBLE AND RELIABLE GENERATION BUSINESS WITH LONG-TERM EARNINGS STABILITY AND OPPORTUNITIES TO OPTIMISE RETURNS FROM ENERGY MARKET VOLATILITY 2.7bn Revenues 13TWh 238m Biomass generation EBITDA 15% UK renewable electricity Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 23 23 STRATEGY IN PROGRESS Gas power station development We are developing options for four new OCGT gas power stations, two of POWER GENERATION which already have planning permission and could be on the system in the Drax Power Station remains the largest early 2020s, subject to being awarded a capacity agreement.
power station in the UK almost twice the size of the next largest.
During the year the A high-tech new control room at Drax Power Station will allow engineers station met 6% of the UKs electricity needs, tohave real time remote control of our OCGT assets via a bre-optic cable whilst providing 15% of its renewable network.
Able to re up from cold and produce power in minutes rather electricity, alongside important system thanhours, our OCGTs will help maintain system security as intermittent support services.
renewable sources of power increase and older thermal plants close.
With an increase in intermittent renewables Investment case and a reduction in the responsive thermal Option to develop 1.2GW of new OCGT gas generation historically provided by coal, the Investment decisions subject to 15-year capacity agreement system of the future will require capacity Multiple revenue streams, with high visibility from capacity contract which is reliable, flexible and able to respond Low capital and operating cost quickly to changes in system demand and Attractive return on capital provide system support services.
These Broader generation asset base and location long-term needs inform our biomass generation and the development of options Find out more: www.
com about-us #our-projects for investment in gas Open Cycle Gas Turbines OCGTs and coal-to-gas repowering.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK In October the Government published its Clean Growth Plan, setting out its plans for delivery of its legally binding target to reduce 2050 carbon emissions by 80% versus 1990 Trading Scheme would continue at around The UK Government has now confirmed an levels across electricity generation, heating the current level the tax is currently set end to non-compliant coal generation by and transport.
This reinforces the Drax at18 tonne whilst coal remains on the 2025.
We support this move subject to an proposition flexible, reliable, low-carbon system.
We believe that CPS has been the appropriate alternative technology being in electricity.
single most effective instrument in reducing place.
With this in mind we have continued carbon emissions from generation and that to develop options for our remaining coal In November the Government updated its having an appropriate price for carbon assets to convert to biomass or gas, to intentions regarding the future trajectory of emissions is the right way to provide a provide the reliable, flexible capacity which UK Carbon Price Support CPS, indicating market signal to further reduce emissions we believe will be required to manage the that the total cost of carbon tax in the UK insupport of the UKs long-term increasingly volatile energy system of the total of CPS and the EU Emissions decarbonisation targets.
2 24 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CHIE PERFF O E RX M EA CN UC TE R IVE E S V RE IEW: P VIEW OWER GENERATION CONTINUED Most recently with conrmation of Lastly, we continue to source attractively OPERATIONAL REVIEW Government support for further biomass priced fuel cargoes out-of-specication Overall, we delivered a good performance generation at Drax Power Station we plan coals and distressed cargoes, which help during 2017 and maintained a strong safety keep costs down for the business and performance.
tocontinue our work to develop a low-cost solution for a fourth biomass unit, consumers.
We do this for both coal and accelerating the removal of coal-red biomass.
This is a good example of how our We completed a major planned outage on generation from the UK electricity system, commercial and operational teams work the unit supported by the CfD contract.
This whilst supporting security of supply.
together to identify opportunities to create unit provides stable and reliable baseload renewable electricity to the network and value for the business, as these fuels GENERATION CAPACITY typically require more complex handling long-term earnings visibility for the Group.
The safe and efficient completion of these 2017 saw the first full year of operation of complex works is a credit to those involved ourbiomass unit under the Contract for You can follow the market and see prices at and reflects our continued focus on Difference CfD mechanism, which provides electricinsights.
co. uk opportunities for improvement index-linked revenues for renewable andefciencies.
Our other biomass units are supported by the Renewable Obligation Certicate ROC Cooling mechanism which, similar to the CfD, is also Tower index-linked to 2027.
This acts as a premium above the price of power we sell from these Cooling Water Out Cooling Water In units.
We sell power forward to the extent Condenser Water Condenser there is liquidity in the power markets section which, combined with our fuel hedging strategy, provides long-term earnings and Steam revenue visibility.
Lower gas prices, higher carbon costs and the continued penetration of intermittent Generator Electricity renewables have kept wholesale electricity Steam Turbine Section prices subdued.
Natural Gas Air Steam Out With increasing levels of intermittent Emissions to renewables we are continuing to see Emissions to atmosphere Exhaust Gas atmosphere when in bypass opportunities to extract value from flexibility short-term power and balancing market Generator Electricity activity, the provision of Ancillary Services Heat Recovery Bypass Stack Gas Turbine and the value achieved from out-ofSteam Generator specication fuels.
To capture value in this Natural Gas Air Steam Out market we continue to focus resource on optimising availability and flexibility of both Emissions to Emissions to atmosphere Exhaust Gas atmosphere when in bypass coal and biomass units.
This whole process requires a high level of teamwork between Generator Electricity the operational and commercial teams across the Group to capture and protect STRATEGY IN PROGRESS value.
Over the period 2017 to 2022 we expect to Repowering away earn 90million from a series of one-year capacity market contracts for our coal units, fromcoal demonstrating that they still have a role toplay.
The first of these contracts Options for Drax Power Station to operate into the late 2030s and beyond commenced in October 2017, adding moved up a gear in 2017 with the development of an option to repower two 3million to EBITDA.
Drax gave notice of the nationally significant infrastructure project to the Planning Inspectorate in September 2017.
One of the units could be eligible for the capacity market auction planned for December 2019.
Local community consultations began in November 2017 and continued inFebruary 2018 on options including up to 3.6GW of new gas generation capacity, a gas pipeline and 200MW of battery storage in line with Government plans to end non-compliant coal generation by 2025 and DraxGroups strategy of playing a vital role in the future energy system.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 25 25 The entire organisation has responded to a POWER GENERATION FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE number of challenging unplanned events.
2017 2016 Most notably, in December we experienced a m m re on a section of conveyor at our biomass rail unloading facility and consequently an Revenue 2,719.6 2,490.9 unplanned outage from late December 2017 Cost of power purchases 891.2 904.4 to mid-January 2018.
Following investigation and recommissioning, the facility has Grid charges 62.9 69.4 returned to service with enhanced operating Fuel and other costs 1,367.1 1,180.1 procedures.
Although this issue did not Cost of sales 2,321.2 2,153.9 relate to the operation of the biomassgenerating units, the resulting restriction Gross profit 398.4 337.0 onfuel deliveries by rail required the Operating costs 160.9 163.2 optimisation ofgeneration across our biomass units, resulting in lower EBITDA EBITDA 237.5 173.8 andfull year biomass availability than ourtarget for theyear.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FINANCIAL RESULTS Unit of Financial performance has signicantly Area KPI measure 2017 2016 improved, with EBITDA of 238million 2016:174million, principally due to the Operations Biomass unit % Below Below CfDmechanism.
target target technical availability Operations Value from flexibility m 88 N A Value from flexibility was below our target for the year, principally reflecting a lower level of Ancillary Service payments versus2016.
LOOKING AHEAD We aim to optimise returns from our core Our operational performance drives assets, through reliable, flexible, low-carbon theresults.
The financial impact of the energy solutions which provide a long-term unplanned outage on the rail unloading solution to the UKs energy needs.
Alongside facility was mitigated by optimisation of our this, value in the generation market will be available biomass and the use of additional created from an ability to execute agile generation capacity retained for selfdecisions and capture value from volatile insurance purposes.
However, this incident short-term power markets.
is a reminder of the need to invest appropriately to maintain a high level We will also continue to explore ofoperational availability and flexibility.
opportunities for lower carbon generation, toexploit our strengths and create At the operating cost level, we have reduced opportunities for the long term.
To that end costs reflecting the efficient single outage we will continue to develop options for gas and our focus on the implementation of lean and pursue efficiencies through our biomass management techniques.
2 26 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: B2B ENERGY SUPPLY MAJOR INCREASE IN EBITDA, SALES VOLUME AND CUSTOMER METERS 2bn Revenues 10% 29m 1 B2B market EBITDA 376k Meter points Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 27 27 STRATEGY IN PROGRESS An innovative energy supplier 90% of the electricity that Opus Energy supplied last year came from clean, renewable sources, at no extra cost to their predominantly small and medium-sized business customers.
For those customers who want it, B2B ENERGY SUPPLY 100%renewable energy contracts are also available.
Our B2B Energy Supply business comprised of Opus Energy and Haven Power This was exactly what All Saints Church in Ascot was looking for to power is the fifth largest B2B power supplier in their business.
As the power system transforms, wewill be working closely with our Assistant Church Warden, Chris Gunton, commented: We wanted to move customers to help them adapt to a world toa greener energy supplier, without paying a premium, so approached an ofmore decentralised anddecarbonised energy broker for guidance.
They advised us that Opus Energy were a reliable power.
The key factors influencing our company with a good reputation, and when we asked for a quote they were business are regulation, competition and the most competitive.
It was a similar story for the Salisbury Museum, in Wiltshire.
REGULATION AND COMPETITION The UK Governments main focus has We were looking for an energy supplier that offered great value, combined beenon what it sees as unfair treatment with the right length of contract and good ethics, commented Finance ofdomestic consumers on legacy Manager, Nicola Kilgour-Croft.
Opus Energy ticked all these boxes for us.
TheGovernment will take forward legislation Alongside supplying customers, Opus Energy has Power Purchase which will provide the regulator Ofgem with Agreements with over 2,300 independent UK renewable energy generators.
the authority to cap these domestic tariffs.
These could be anything from a single wind turbine owned by a village SVTs are not a feature of our business.
Our community, to Europes greenest zoo, Hamerton Zoo Park.
focus remains on the B2B market.
At the microbusinessend of the market, which is Commented Andrew Swales, Director of Hamerton Zoo: Working with Opus closer in proximity to domestic, most of our Energy has given us competitive prices, considerably better documentation customers are on xed price products and and a highly efficient service.
are actively rather than passively renewing their power supply contracts.
1 Opus Energy and Haven Power combined represent 10% ofthe non-domestic UK power market 2 28 8 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 PERFORMANCE REVIEW: B2B ENERGY SUPPLY CONTINUED The B2B market remains competitive with B2B ENERGY SUPPLY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 65 different suppliers across the market.
Our 2017 2016 Haven Power and Opus Energy businesses m m offer customer-centric power, gas and services.
We offer simplicity and flexibility Revenue 1,999.0 1,326.4 across ourproducts and actively engage Cost of power purchases 883.7 688.9 with customers to help them manage their energy requirements and reduce carbon Grid charges 435.8 310.4 emissions.
Other retail costs 562.1 303.6 Cost of sales 1,881.6 1,302.9 OPERATIONAL REVIEW We have remained focused on delivering Gross profit 117.4 23.5 anexcellent standard of customer service, Operating costs 88.0 27.8 which is central to our proposition.
EBITDA 29.4 4.3 February 2017 saw the completion of the acquisition of Opus Energy, which has made good progress integrating into the Group KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS supported by a dedicated team, who have Unit of been working on systems, people and Area KPI measure 2017 2016 commercial projects to ensure our Operations Implementation of new ERP processeswork effectively together.
Date Q2 2018 N A Haven Power In March we completed the purchase of a Operations Sales volume Opus Energy TWh 5.7 N A new ofce facility in Northampton, enabling Operations Renewal rate Opus Energy % Above N A the consolidation of four Opus Energy offices Target into one and the centralisation of the operational teams.
Sales volumes at Opus Energy were lower Following the acquisition of Opus Energy the Third Party Costs TPCs include grid major Enterprise Resource Platform ERP charges, the cost of meeting our obligations than target, reflecting our focus on margin system upgrade was re-planned which has under the Renewable Obligation RO and which has remained strong and customer renewal rates were towards the high end of led to a revised timeline from Q2 2018 onwards.
Grid charges include distribution, transmission expectation.
This reflects the continued commitment to a strong level of customer We continue to actively manage credit and system balancing costs.
TPCs have riskby assessing the financial strength continued to increase and now account service and in recognition of this Opus ofcustomers and applying rigorous credit for50% of revenue.
Energy was awarded Utility Provider to SmallBusinesses of the Year 2017 at the management processes, with a strong focuscontinuing to be placed on billing Total operating costs have risen with the British Business Awards.
We remain confident that over time the benets of At Haven Power we have continued to Health and safety remains an area of focus common platforms and knowledge sharing focuson value-adding flexible products andservices particularly to Industrial & for the business and we continue to target will lead to efficiencies.
areduction in the level of recordable incidents.
Commercial customers whose needs extendbeyond commodity supply.
This is LOOKING AHEAD FINANCIAL RESULTS In 2018 we will focus on Opus Energy demonstrated through our ability to help Financial performance has signicantly on-boarding, systems development and customers manage and optimise their powerconsumption proles through improved, with EBITDA of 29million theroll out of smart meters.
inlinewith our guidance 2016: 4 million collaboration with our carefully selected partners.
Through better systems and negative.
This was principally due to the We continue to see opportunities for EBITDA acquisition of Opus Energy, which added growth in the B2B markets, which we will services, customer targeting and a keener 10months of EBITDA, but also improved deliver through our customer-focused focus on cost to serve we are driving efficiencies and improved margin at financial performance from Haven Power, supplyproposition.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 29 29 2018 PRIORITIES Pellet Production Power Generation B2B Energy Supply Commissioning of LaSalle Bioenergy Reliable biomass generation Development of value-added services Development of options for Development of fourth biomass unit Continued cost reduction and growth optimisationand efficiencies inEBITDA System support services Consistent production and quality Investment in systems to support growth Development of OCGT options ofpellets and Smart compliance Development of coal-to-gas Continued cost reduction and repoweringoption improvement in EBITDA Continued cost reduction and growth inEBITDA % OUTLOOK In Power Generation, we continue to explore We have made good progress on the delivery Our focus in 2018 remains on the delivery ways to optimise our existing operations, of our strategy and will continue to build on ofour strategy and long-term ambitions for whilst meeting the needs of the changing this as we progress our targets for 2025, earnings growth, underpinned by safety, UK electricity system.
whilst playing an important role in our sustainability, operational excellence and markets and helping to change the way expertise in our markets.
We also recognise We remain supportive of the UK energy is generated, supplied and used.
that being the most efficient operator in each Governments decarbonisation targets and of our markets is a key factor in our success.
will continue our work to deliver four OCGTs and a low-cost biomass unit conversion Our objective in Pellet Production remains utilising existing infrastructure at Drax the commissioning of LaSalle, the Power Station, alongside developing the production of good quality pellets at the option to repowering the remaining coal lowest cost, cross-supply chain optimisation units to gas.
WILL GARDINER and identifying attractive options to CHIEF EXECUTIVE, DRAX GROUP increase self-supply.
In B2B Energy Supply, we will continue to grow our B2B offering, with significant Our biomass proposition is strong reliable, opportunities to grow market share.
At flexible, low-carbon renewable electricity thesame time, we will invest in supporting and system support which, combined with infrastructure to ensure we can continue an effective fuel hedging strategy, will togrow, offer market-leading digital propositions and smart metering services.
We remain focused on ways to increase supply chain efficiency and make biomass competitive beyond 2027.
As part of this we remain focused on the optimisation of our assets in the US Gulf and reduction in pellet cost.
To support this focus we are moving our US headquarters from Atlanta to Monroe, Louisiana, which benets from amuch closer proximity to these assets.
3 30 0 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OUR PURPOSE IS TO HELP CHANGE THE WAY ENERGY IS GENERATED, SUPPLIED AND USED FOR ABETTER FUTURE Draxs commitment to improved performance and sustainability is integral toour purpose and has guided us through years of research, development andextensive upgrades to our infrastructure.
Today we are proud to supply 15% of the UKs renewable electricity from biomass, positioning us asthe largest single renewable electricity generator in the country.
We have completed the process which allows us to participate intheUnitedNations Global Compact UNGC.
com sustainability Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 31 31 OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY GROUP PURPOSE Our Group strategy positions Drax as a To help change the way energy is generated, supplied leading low-carbon energy company in andused for a better future theUK, and broadens our earnings base to protect long-term returns to shareholders.
As a result, the business is focused on: PelletProduction, Power Generation and B2B Energy Supply.
WE DETAIL PROGRESS MADE IN 2017 UNDER THESE THEMES Our strategy is underpinned by safety, sustainability, operational excellence andexpertise across our markets.
We provide a summary of our progress and ACHIEVE DELIVER A LOWER RESPONSIBLE REDUCE OUR POSITIVE SOURCING performance in 2017 against six themes on TOGETHER WITH FOR OUR CARBON ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL OUR PEOPLE CUSTOMERS COMPANY IMPACT IMPACT the following pages.
Our aim is to build a sustainable business andimproved environment, social and governance ESG performance is a comply with all relevant laws and regulations.
Group was not involved in any legal cases prerequisite for this.
We have published We do not tolerate any form ofbribery, related to corruption and bribery.
acomprehensive overview of our corruption or improper business conduct.
sustainability progress on our website WHISTLEBLOWING www.
Our compliance framework sets out the We encourage anyone with a concern to ethical principles that our people must speak out and report concerns through our GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY uphold, as outlined in the Groupethics guide, whistleblowing procedure.
Employees can We have policies and procedures in place Doing the Right Thing.
The framework was raise issues through internal channels and tomanage sustainability and a strong an anonymous, third-party hotline is updated in 2017 to reflect new legislation governance structure ensures these are and to encourage whistleblowing in all available to internal and external implemented.
Should concerns be raised, wehave a strict non-retaliation policy.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for The framework is underpinned by policies During 2017 there was one whistleblowing theGroups sustainability performance, and procedures.
Our principles regarding case which was raised.
Two investigations withoperational oversight by the Executive ethics, integrity and anti-bribery and were carried out, one by the local business Committee, chaired bythe Group Chief corruption are supported by the Group and one by the Group team, neither nding Executive.
The Executive Committee reviews corporate crime policy.
Compliance is anyevidence that Company policy and sustainability performance and progress overseen by the Group Ethics and Business procedures had been breached.
The Group Director of Corporate Conduct Committee EBCC.
Internal and Affairs leads Draxs sustainability programme external audits ensure compliance with our OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2017 and is amember of the Executive Committee.
Corporate Compliance ACHIEVE TOGETHER WITH OUR PEOPLE also conducts an annualBribery Act risk Our people strategy and approach to The Executive Committee has oversight of assessment.
developing talent, providing a safe and risk, ethics and business conduct for the healthy workplace and promoting diversity Group.
This responsibility is discharged We expect the same high standards from and inclusion are detailed on page 40 of through the risk management framework everyone we work with in the United thisreport.
asdescribed in the principal risks and Kingdom, United States and elsewhere.
Thirdparties are subject to our due diligence DELIVER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS checks at the time of contracting and on an We are dedicated to providing our customers Page 51 ongoing basis through continual monitoring with secure, sustainable energy and via our third party due diligence solution.
Our B2B Energy ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Supply business includes Opus Energy and ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Haven Power, who supply large industrial Our internal processes ensure consistency and commercial customers, corporate and with our zero tolerance approach to bribery small business customers with power, gas and corruption.
Requests to do business in and value-adding services.
Both businesses new countries pass through our country risk offer renewable energy options.
Medium and high scoring countries are reviewed by the Currency and Excellent customer service is at the heart Commodity Risk Management Committee ofour business and both Haven Power CCRMC, as required.
Associated andOpus Energy have strict standards counterparties are then put forward for fortreating customers fairly, protecting ourdue diligence process.
We refresh due customer data and privacy, and a clear At Drax Group we believe in doing the right diligence for high risk counterparties on an complaints procedure if things go wrong.
We are committed to conducting annual basis and all other counterparties are Weare pleased that Haven Power was evaluated every three years.
In 2017, Drax business with honesty and integrity, and we shortlisted for Supplier of the Year at the 3 32 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Energy Awards 2017, and named the UKs best performing energy supplier by Third Party Intermediaries TPIs in this years Cornwall Insight Report.
Opus Energy won Utilities Provider of the Year at the British 1 Small Business Awards 2017 and was shortlisted in the National Business Awards 2017.
Our B2B Energy Supply businesses support customers to be more sustainable.
Haven Power offers industrial and commercial customers 100% renewable electricity at anaffordable price, powered by biomass supplied from Drax Power.
Opus Energy offers SME businesses renewable energy, makes it easy for them to switch suppliers and reduce their energy costs.
Opus Energy also buys energy from STRATEGY IN PROGRESS renewable generators across the UK, from sources including wind turbines, solar panels and anaerobic digestion plants.
In 2017 Providing customers with thisamounted to 992GWh of renewable energy generated from 2,300 generators.
great value and good ethics A LOWER CARBON COMPANY As a major electricity producer, we have a Founded in 1860, Salisbury Museum is located in a Grade I listed building significant role to play in the transition to a opposite Salisbury Cathedral.
As a charitable, not-for-profit organisation, low carbon future.
We are determined to themuseum relies on entry fees, grants, donations and the support of its continue to reduce our carbon emissions members to continue its vital work.
Finding a business energy supplier that while providing the power the economy offered the best prices on the market, as well as the right length of contract requires.
and good ethics, was important for the museum.
Climate change poses both risks and SMEs are a key part of the business and we know that a business energy opportunities for Drax Group.
To reduce service that is as smooth and efficient as possible is a toppriority.
Nicola the risks to our business, we are committed Kilgour-Croft, Finance Manager at Salisbury Museum, commented: The to reducing our operational carbon switching process went through really smoothly, and the facility to receive emissions and emissions from our supply invoices via email means I dont need to spend time on the phone trying to chain, by transitioning away from coal sort out payment.
Having 12-month contracts really works forus.
and using sustainable biomass, as well as investing in lower carbon energy sources such as Open Cycle Gas Turbine OCGT generation plants.
We are also exploring innovative battery technology.
The significant investments which are used to manufacture the biomass enabling the use of solar and wind energy, wehave made to upgrade our units to pellets used at Drax to generate electricity.
with ourbiomass, gas and potential renewable biomass, coupled with a battery storage options all supporting the reduction in coal-red generation, The biogenic CO emissions resulting from 2 capacity and stability of the UK energy haveresulted in a 73% reduction in power generation are counted as zero in grid, providing services such as voltage carbonemissions since 2012. ofcial reporting to both UK authorities and control, frequency response and inertia.
under the EU ETS as the use of sustainable Carbon Emissions biomass is considered to be carbon neutral We recognise that investors and other We calculate and report our carbon at the point of combustion.
This stakeholders increasingly require clear emissions in accordance with the methodology originates from the United information about the climate change risks Companies Act 2006 and the European Nations Framework Convention on Climate to our business and we are fully committed Union Emissions Trading System EU ETS, Change UNFCCC.
to transparent disclosure of climate asdisclosed in Table 1. information.
We welcomed the The majority of our emissions result from the Governments Clean Growth Strategy to We are also required to disclose emissions process of using solid fuel.
This can make it ensure a green economy and energy are from biologically sequestered carbon, which difficult to identify other smaller trends that atthe heart of the UKs industry strategy.
includes emissions released through the are still significant.
To counteract this Webelieve this will provide certainty for combustion of biomass to generate dominance and to ensure we retain a electricity.
These emissions are shown in businesses investing in lower-carbon and balance between highlighting significant renewable capacity, and incentivise the Table 2.
The gures do not take into account developments and providing meaningful development ofnew lower-carbon the CO that has been absorbed from the data, we have adopted a materiality 2 atmosphere during the growth of feedstocks threshold of 100,000 tonnes ofCO.
com  Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 33 33 TABLE 1 Fossil fuel, operations and purchased electricity emissions Activity Unit of measure 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Scope 1 Fossil fuel combustion kt 6,169 6,021 13,101 16,476 20,162 Operations kt 100 100 100 119 157 Total Scope 1 kt 6,169 6,021 13,101 16,595 20,319 Scope 2 Purchased electricity kt 127 151 216 249 293 Total Scope 1 and 2 kt 6,296 6,172 13,317 16,844 20,612 TABLE 2 Biologically sequestered carbon biomass combustion emissions Activity Unit of measure 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Biologically sequestered carbon biomass combustion kt 11,766 11,455 10,238 7,150 2,799 TABLE 3 Total emissions per GWh of electricity generated by fossil fuel combustion Activity Unit of measure 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Gross generation TWh 21.2 20.8 28.1 28.5 28.0 t GWh 297 297 474 591 736 Emissions per GWh of electricity generated In 2017, our electricity generated from Emissions from each stage and in each In 2017, the average supply chain sustainable biomass was 13 TWh, an increase different supply region are calculated and greenhouse gas emissions from all of Draxs of 300MW from 2016.
The most significant GHG impacts biomass supplies amounted to 36g CO MJ.
2 fossil fuel combustion emissions have in the biomass supply chain are the This is an increase of 6% compared with increased by 2%.
This can in part be electricity used in pelletisation and the sea 2016 because we sourced a higher attributed to the re at our Power freight emissions in transport.
Pellet mills are proportion of our biomass supplies from the Generation biomass unloading facilities in ideally located close to the forest resource US.
The UK Government has provided a and close to ports in order to minimise December, which did cause an unplanned benchmark gure for GHG emissions from outage at two of our biomass units transport emissions.
coal which is 256.9g CO MJ: therefore in 2 the 201617 compliance year Drax saved Biomass Supply Chain Emissions The UK Government has set a limit on the around 86% of CO emissions compared to 2 We monitor every step in the supply chain to maximum supply chain GHG emissions the coal benchmark.
ensure that our sustainability standards are permitted in order for biomass to be eligible being met and that greenhouse gas GHG for support under the Renewables emissions associated with producing our Obligation.
The current limit for CO 2 biomass are calculated according to the emissions from life cycle analysis of biomass regulatory requirements.
supplies is 79.2g CO MJ reducing to 50g 2 CO MJ by 2025.
2 DRAX AVERAGE BIOMASS SUPPLY CHAIN GHG EMISSIONS FOR 2017 48.7% 50 40 30 21.6% 20 9.3% 8.2% 5.5% 10 2.7% 2.9% 0.9% 0.2% 0 CULTIVATION HARVESTING TRUCK TO CHIPPING DRYING PELLETISING TRUCK TO SHIPPING RAIL TO DRAX PELLET PLANT PORT 3 34 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED RESPONSIBLE SOURCING In 2017, Drax Group started a review OUR BIOMASS SUSTAINABILITY Being a responsible business means we andupdate of our policy with various REQUIREMENTS source raw materials, including important stakeholders to ensure that it is still relevant Group sustainability policy in place resources such as sustainable biomass and and addresses the key biomass sustainability since 2008, our policy covers our core coal, in a responsible manner.
We also asked the non-profit TFT sustainability values on protecting suppliers fairly and pay them promptly.
org to visit biodiversity, reduction of greenhouse expect our suppliers to uphold the same high our key supply regions to examine local gas emissions and contribution to ethical standards we apply toour business, challenges and identify opportunities social values.
which are outlined in our Group ethics guide, forimproved environmental and social UK Government criteria for sustainable Doing the Right Thing.
TFT is a UK-registered charity biomass we report monthly on working with other global companies to compliance with the UK sustainability SUSTAINABLE BIOMASS improve the environmental and social criteria, including life cycle emissions We believe the best way to ensure our impact of their supply chains.
limits and the land criteria.
This covers biomass is sustainable and legal is through the requirements of the Forest Europe a combination of proactive supplier Maintaining forest carbon stocks Sustainable Forest Management engagement, third party certication and Ensuring that forest carbon stocks are criteria, including: maintaining forest our own audits and checks.
We rely on a maintained, or not adversely impacted by area and carbon stocks: encouraging number of forest certication programmes, biomass demand, is one of the requirements the production of forest products: including the Sustainable Forest Initiative of the UK Governments criteria for maintaining the forest ecosystem 1 SFI, Forest Stewardship Council FSC, sustainable biomass.
Drax only sources health and vitality: conserving and theProgramme for the Endorsement of sustainable biomass from working forests.
enhancing biological diversity: Forest Certication PEFC and Sustainable We regularly monitor forest inventory data, contributing socio-economic benets: Biomass Program SBP.
in addition to our detailed certication and and ensuring that soil and water auditing process, to ensure that biomass protection is maintained.
Our requirements are laid out in our Group demand is having a positive impact on European Union Timber Regulation regional forest industries.
com inplace since 2013, the EUTR requires sustainability .
We purchasers of wood products to have adhere to the UK Government criteria for Recent analysis of historical trends in the coherent due diligence processes in sustainable biomass, the Forest Europe southern US has shown that as demand place to ensure a negligible risk of Sustainable Forest Management Criteria and forwood products increased over the last trading illegally logged timber.
60years, management practices have also we comply with the European Union Timber Regulation EUTR.
improved to increase forest growth rates and more than double the amount of carbon 3 The Group Director of Corporate Affairs has stored inthe working forest from 4 billion m 3 2 overall responsibility for ensuring biomass to 8.4billion m. meets the Governments sustainability criteria.
Cases requiring special attention Healthy markets for wood products have areescalated to the Ethics and Business ledto an increase in forest growth carbon Conduct Committee EBCC or the sequestration and stored carbon.
growing stock in the forests of the 28 EU 3 member states increased by 7.4 billion m An example of this in 2017 was when new between 1990 and 2015, an increase of 3 information came to light on one of our 38%.
Over this same period, total suppliers through an SBP audit report.
production of roundwood harvesting also 3 4 Background information collected during increased by 103 millionm, around 29%.
preparation for SBP assessment highlighted This demonstrates that increasing demand that our supplier had not provided us with for wood products and increased harvesting the most accurate information regarding does not necessarily lead to deforestation or harvesting locations.
Without this, we lower forest carbon stocks.
cannot carry out the regional risk-based assessment required under the legislation.
The continual cycle of sustainable forest management, production of wood products, Although the volume in question was low, improving management practice and we halted deliveries until our supplier could increased sequestration of atmospheric properly identify the material and we could carbon leads to substantial GHG benets.
carry out the appropriate due diligence.
These benets are even greater when compared to the linear emissions associated with burning coal.
com hubfs 2016 Website Documents 20170726 Forest2Market Historical Perspective US South.
do?dataset for vol&lang en 4 www.
org faostat en #data Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 35 35 High-priority findings can result in Forest management certication In 2017 termination of a supplier agreement.
In addition to the Drax internal process and Medium-priority findings result in the third party SBP certication, sustainability supplier being given a set timescale within can also be demonstrated through Forest which to rectify them.
Low-priority issues Management FM certication.
This 2.7Mt highlight areas where our independent confirms that the forest is being managed in auditors believe suppliers have room to a way that preserves the natural ecosystem of Draxs sourced biomass came with an improve their practices.
Drax engages with and benets the lives of local people and SBP-compliant claim our suppliers to share best practice and workers, while ensuring it sustains economic support and encourage improvements viability.
In 2017, Drax Power purchased toprocedures.
1.3million tonnes of wood bre from How we ensure sustainable biomass FM-certied forests, 20% of our total supply sourcing The Sustainable Biomass Program of pellets.
Drax has developed a rigorous process Alternatively, suppliers can evidence the toensure that new and existing biomass necessary sustainability requirements FM certication may be difficult to achieve suppliers demonstrate that all sustainability through Sustainable Biomass Program SBP for some types of forest owners and, for this and legal requirements are being met.
Our certication, as SBP-compliant material has reason, a secondary level of assessment eight key stages for ensuring compliance been benchmarked by Ofgem to fully meet called Controlled Wood is available.
This are: chain of custody: supplier audits: the the UK sustainability requirements.
If a ensures that wood bre is not: illegally EUTR legality assessment: GHG life supplier can provide all of their biomass to harvested: harvested in violation of cycleassessment and monitoring: the Drax with an SBP compliant biomass claim, traditional and human rights: harvested in sustainability data return SDR captured Drax does not require an audit to be carried forests in which high conservation values inthe contract: the SDR and annual out and the supplier can progress through are threatened by management activities: declaration: regional and country risk the process much faster.
We encourage our harvested in forests being converted to assessments: and supplier relationship suppliers to move towards SBP certication plantations or non-forest use: or from management and monitoring.
These stages and we aim to achieve 90% SBP-compliant forestsin which genetically modied trees are implemented in an ongoing cycle to provide material by the end of 2018. are planted.
In 2017, Drax Power purchased robust evidence across each element.
4.9million tonnes of wood bre from Drax Power is certied under the SBP Chain Controlled Wood sources.
Our due diligence process always begins of Custody standard.
In 2017, 2.7 million with a regional risk assessment, which tonnes of Drax Powers sourced biomass Chain of Custody identies high-level risks such as came from SBP-certied pellet mills.
Once certied, Chain of Custody CoC can deforestation or illegal logging, corruption DraxBiomass is an SBP-certied be used as a mechanism for tracking wood and issues with workers rights.
bre from the forest to the final product and focus on these high risks and that they are destination.
Each supplier in the chain must mitigated.
These reports are renewed every have a documented system to be able to DRAX POWER SUPPLIER AUDIT AND SBP three years, or more frequently if there is 1 identify and trace the wood bre at each FIGURES FOR 2017 cause for concern, to ensure that we always stage.
Drax requires that all of its suppliers stay on top of developing issues.
achieve CoC certication before contracts are signed and pellets can be delivered.
This is followed by a sustainability data return SDR, where we ask each supplier 43 At Drax Power, our key biomass buyers, detailed questions about all aspects of their logistics, legal and communications supply chain and they are required to provide employees are required to complete documentary evidence to support their ChainofCustody training with the answers.
This sustainability declaration sustainability team.
subsequently forms part of the contract between Drax and the supplier.
Our supplier audit process Suppliers assessed through Each new supplier is subject to an Drax audit process 12.8% independent audit before pellets can be SBP-certied suppliers 87.2% delivered.
Existing suppliers are audited at least once every three to four years.
The audit requires the supplier to pass a series The number of audits has decreased since ofdetailed environmental and social checks 2016 because increasingly more audits are along the whole length of their supply chain covered by SBP.
In 2017, 69.6% of our and pellet manufacturing process.
Findings biomass suppliers were in the audit cycle.
are categorised into three priorities: high, 34of the 56 pellet mills we sourced from medium and low.
were SBP certied and were audited by an independent third party.
In addition, we carried out five first party audits by Drax staff and six third party audits by independent auditors.
In 2017, three of the suppliers that we audited did not meet our standards and as a result we made the decision not to contract them.
1 Figures for audited plants only 3 36 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Our feedstock sources in 2017 POWER GENERATION FEEDSTOCK MIX 2017 In 2017, Drax Power sourced 82.78% of ourbiomass feedstock from North America, with the remainder coming from the Baltics 12.96%, Brazil, Portugal and other countries within the European Union.
We report our feedstock types according to the Ofgem guidelines and criteria.
In 2017, 40% of our feedstock mix came from sawmillresidues.
Drax is required to report all feedstock categories to Ofgem in accordance with United States 59% Sawmill residues 40% their guidelines and criteria.
This information Canada 24% Thinnings 18% can be found at: www.
Latvia 9% Low-grade roundwood 24% Estonia 4% Branches, tops and bark 17% Portugal 2% Agricultural residues 1% Other EU 1% Brazil 1% United Kingdom 1% COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN AND FEEDSTOCKS OF OUR BIOMASS PELLETS The following table shows the types of feedstocks we used in 2017 by weight tonnes and country of origin.
Branches, Low grade Country Sawmill top and bark Disease End of life Thinnings roundwood Product Agri total residues tonnage tonnage tonnage tonnage tonnes tonnage tonnes tonnes USA 958,930 962,269 999,793 1,075,059 3,996,051 1,298,077 155,091 37,599 105,536 1,596,303 Canada Latvia 274,684 5,844 1,607 121,978 196,084 600,197 Estonia 94,512 91,663 74,423 260,598 Portugal 12,058 5,880 3,828 48 22,355 91,280 1,932 137,381 Other EU 63,907 39 157 2,662 4,527 2 71,294 46,935 46,935 Brazil UK 45,846 45,846 Other non-EU 1,045 1,045 Grand total 2,703,213 1,129,123 43,191 48 1,238,451 1,593,844 1,934 45,846 6,755,651 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 37 37 ENSURING A COAL-FREE FUTURE Partnering with others to raise standards THE BETTERCOAL INITIATIVE Reducing our reliance on coal We work with a range of stakeholders to try Bettercoal is a global, not-for-profit Our business is changing rapidly.
Today and improve standards in the coal industry.
initiative established by a group of wehave cut our coal consumption by 72%, For example, we engage with coal suppliers major utilities to promote the from 9.8 million tonnes in 2011 to 2.7 million through conferences and through our  of corporate tonnes in 2017, with three units upgraded membership of industry initiatives such as responsibility in the coal supply chain torun on renewable biomass.
In 2017, we attended conferences www.
with large suppliers such as Cerrejn, to Given the UK Governments policy decision understand developments in their to remove coal from the nations energy sustainability approach.
We also enhanced We buy coal only from known sources and system by 2025, we are preparing for a our risk assessment process by capturing from suppliers that are transparent about post-coal future.
Our goal is to replace coal key questions on potential risks to revisit origin mines.
Any jurisdictions we source with alternative lower-carbon fuels subject with suppliers.
from are vetted against our policies.
In 2017, to alternative generation being available.
31% of the coal we used came from UK deep The Bettercoal initiative works with coal and surface mines, with the remainder In June 2017 we announced plans to consult suppliers to encourage continuous coming predominantly from the US, on upgrading two of the remaining coal-red improvements in social, ethical and Colombia and Russia.
Where possible, we units at Drax Power Station to become environmental standards.
Suppliers usepond fines the ltered residue of coal gas-powered generating plants.
This is in complete a self-assessment process and washings and other advantaged fuels to addition to our plans to construct four areindependently audited against the reduce the amount of raw coal extracted fast-response Open Cycle Gas Turbine Bettercoal Code by approved assessors.
OCGT generation plants at new sites make it clear in supplier contracts that we acrossEngland and Wales.
Results from As we look to the future, coal sourcing will Bettercoal assessments form part of our continue to be governed by our focus on The upgraded gas-powered units could supply chain due diligence procedures and responsible sourcing.
Origins will be provide flexible and reliable electricity for any new information on suppliers is reviewed determined by balancing quality and theUKs homes and businesses and facilitate by Draxs procurement and compliance teams.
Where possible, we source other investments in renewable energy such  mines.
as wind and solar power by helping to bridge In 2017, 23% of the coal we sourced was intermittent renewable supplies.
As a member of the Technical & We carry out due diligence to ensure coal is Advisory Committee TAC, in 2017 we supplied in line with our CSR policy and carry In January 2018 the UK government worked with other members to further out visits to suppliers sites.
Where our confirmed support for conversion of a fourth develop rigorous procedures, protocols checks raise any red flags we undertake unit to biomass fuel.
The conversion of unit 4 andassurance in the Bettercoal system.
enhanced due diligence and commission will complete during 2018 allowing us to third party investigations.
Results and optimise generation across three ROC concerns are reviewed by Draxs Ethics and accredited units.
Business Conduct Committee if necessary.
Sourcing coal responsibly Transitioning away from coal is challenging and will take time.
In the meantime, we must continue to secure reliable and responsible sources of coal.
Our coal sourcing approach is strictly governed by our compliance, sustainability and risk teams.
Draxs corporate social responsibility CSR statement sets out the legal, ethical, environmental and social standards we expect of our suppliers.
Requirements are also set out in our contracts, including our preference for Bettercoal.
3 38 8 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CASE STUDY American T ree Farm The majority of forestlands in the southern US are privately owned 86% and two-thirds of these forests are owned by families and individuals.
The American Tree Farm System ATFS, administered by the American Forest Foundation, was established over 75 years ago toprovide support and recognition to these non-corporate landowners who play such a key role in forest sustainability.
Today, the 74,000 tree farmers across the US manage approximately 20.5 million acres of forestland.
The programme has evolved into an internationally recognised, third party veried certication standard sanctioned by theProgramme for the Endorsement of Forest Certication PEFC standards.
The ATFS now provides a means by which family tree farmers can be recognised and rewarded in the marketplace for meeting rigorous sustainability standards analogous to large corporateowners certied to Sustainable Forestry Initiative SFI orForest Stewardship Council FSC standard.
REDUCE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT business and we aim to be transparent and We also make a positive contribution by We are committed to managing, monitoring open.
We are in constant dialogue with our investing in skills and education projects, and reducing our environmental impact and local communities and the diverse group of particularly in STEM science, technology, engineering and maths subjects which are the Group environment policy outlines our stakeholders affected by our business approach.
Our Environmental Management seepage 42, Stakeholder Engagement.
aligned to our future business needs.
In 2017 System EMS covering DraxPower Station we supported education projects to develop and its associated ash disposal site is In 2017, we commissioned Oxford Economics STEM skills in schools and through certied to IS014001.
We arecommitted to to analyse Draxs economic footprint across apprenticeships to nurture the STEM skills complying with all relevant environmental the UK.
The researchers found that Drax and talents of young people.
legislation and there were nomajor or minor contributed an estimated 1.67 billion to the breaches to our environmental permits at UK economy in 2016, through the 18,500 Our businesses support local projects Drax Power in2017.
people we directly employ, the supply chain through fundraising, partnerships and we support and the goods and services we volunteering.
Each business has strong links In addition to carbon, we manage our other purchase.
to its local communities and we focus our emissions to air including sulphur dioxide charitable support on the areas where we SO, nitrogen oxides NO and particulates.
Local recruitment is important to us.
During 2017, the Group donated a 2 X Managing the use of water and other natural Energy works with a network of education total of 185,888 to a range of charities resources, along with disposal of waste, is providers in Northampton to recruit local and53,465 to non-charitable causes.
also important across our business.
We aim talent for apprenticeships in business to protect biodiversity both at our own sites administration and its graduate programme We take a responsible approach to managing and through our biomass sourcing.
in the areas of risk management and IT.
In our tax affairs and we will always comply the United States, our business activities with applicable tax laws and regulations in POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACT have helped to revitalise communities which the countries in which we operate.
In 2017 We strive to have a positive social impact in have lost jobs in traditional industries, such we paid taxes of more than 150 million.
the communities and countries in which we as pulp and paper, and our Pellet Production These included taxes on our profits, taxes on operate, through the jobs we provide, our business provides a steady income for our workforce, taxes levied for burning fossil wider economic contribution, the tax we pay landowners who supply us with low-grade fuels as well as environmental taxes.
This and the education and charity projects we wood.
Communicating effectively with people is a vital aspect of being a successful Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 39 39 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED CASE STUDY Restoring Brickmakers Wood The Eden-Rose Coppice Trust is a woodland network that transformsurban environmental disasters into beautiful, natural high-biodiversity woodland settings for people living with a terminal illness.
Haven Power has been supporting the Trusts ambitious Brickmakers Wood project in Ipswich since April 2016.
Brickmakers Wood is a  site that is beingtransformed into a peaceful space for cancer patients, disadvantaged children and people with mental or physical health problems and learning difficulties.
Throughout 2017, up to 12 Haven Power employees spent time volunteering at the project each month.
Volunteers contributed to the restoration of the site and relished getting their hands dirty, clearing rubbish and dense overgrowth, building new structures, creating an allotment andplanting wild flowers.
13,200 VISITORS TO DRAX POWER STATION Without Haven Powers contribution, the charity founders would have had to undertake most of the work at Brickmakers Wood themselves.
In their words: The continual volunteering has transformed the project, so we are now two to three years aheadofwherewewould have been otherwise.
5,200 The site is being transformed into a town centre oasis and has already been put to good use.
The charity has run skills workshops PEOPLE REACHED BY for 1216 year-olds who have been excluded from school, OUR OUTREACH PROGRAMME encouraging them tolearn about woodcraft and how to run abusiness.
4 40 0 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 Employment contracts Full time 92% Part time 8% Employment gender OUR EMPLOYEES ARE AT THE HEART OF OUR SUCCESS AND ARE KEY ENABLERS OF OUR Male 67% Female 33% BUSINESS STRATEGY Employees per country PEOPLE AND CULTURE achieving our strategic goals.
We are Drax Group maintains high standards in its determined to be a place where employees, employment practices and all our employees customers and suppliers alike feel respected, benefit from a range of policies to support comfortable and supported in all their diversity.
These include policies designed to enable different work Employee representation and lifestyle preferences, processes whereby and engagement employees can raise grievances orconcerns Overall, 22% of the workforce across the about safety, along with supporting a diverse Group is covered by collective bargaining.
We have representative employee consultation and information arrangements As at 31 September 2017, Drax Group in place for those employees who have United Kingdom 2,300 employed a total number of 2,558 people individual employment contracts.
United States 258 and almost all our employees were on permanent contracts.
We communicate with employees through Employees per business unit arange of channels, including our internal Of the total, 1,714 were male and 844 were intranet, quarterly newsletter and Open female.
There were eight Board directors Forum meetings.
We track employee onefemale and three members of the engagement through our opinion surveys.
Executive Committee who were not The 2016 survey of all UK and US employees directors onefemale.
prior to Opus Energy joining the Group was completed by 79% of employees.
Key issues Diversity and inclusion raised included the need for clearer learning Drax Group is fully committed to the and development programmes and more elimination of unlawful and unfair effective communication.
The results were discrimination and values the differences used to inform the development of our new that a diverse workforce brings to the people strategy.
Our goal is to create and engagement survey will take place in 2018.
Corporate 185 maintain a working environment that is Pellet Production 258 supportive of all our people and where every Power Generation 804 employee has the opportunity to realise his B2B Energy Supply 1,311 or her potential.
We believe that a commitment to diversity is critical to Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 41 41 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Our people strategy In 2017, we launched our new Group-wide people strategy, One Drax.
The strategy AT DRAX POWER, WE focuses on valuing our people, driving business HAVEAPROUD HISTORY performance and developing talent to deliver OF APPRENTICESHIPS, our strategic and operational objectives.
WITH THE MAJORITY REMAINING TO WORK AT LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS DRAX AND PROGRESSING Our commitment to the protection of human THROUGH THE COMPANY.
rights includes not tolerating the use of underage workers or forced labour.
This is captured in our ethics guide, Doing the Right Thing, in our Corporate Crime policy and our corporate social responsibility CSR statement.
Our CSR statement outlines the standard ofethical business conduct we expect from suppliers.
Businesses in our supply chain should offer a safe workplace for their employees that is free from harm, intimidation, harassment and fear.
We have incorporated further provisions into our statement template to manage and reduce these risks within our procurement contracts.
We encourage suppliers and contractors working on our behalf to challenge unethical behaviour and promote a speak up culture.
Safety performance is reported and The results for 2017 were in line with targets, reviewed regularly by local management but the number of incidents increased from MODERN SLAVERY teams, the Executive Committee and the previous years, partly reflecting the In 2017 we published our first statement to Board.
Each incident is comprehensively increased headcount of the Group.
comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act.
This analysed and reviewed, lessons learnt are describes the steps we are taking to reduce shared with employees and actions are While the Groups TRIR remained on target the risk of modern slavery in our supply taken to mitigate the risk of future failures.
in2017, the incident at our biomass rail chain.
We have added modern slavery AtDrax Power, a weekly safety update is unloading facilities in December did cause awareness to our programme of regular are.
It highlighted once again that the uploaded to our intranet and at Drax training for contract managers, provided Biomass, information is made available risksof generating using biomass must be classroom-based training to higher-risk toemployees through a health and safety mitigated through robust safety procedures teams and reviewed our counterparty due onlineportal.
and a risk-based plant investment and diligence processes.
Our most recent maintenance programme.
statement is available on our website.
The Board receives monthly reports which include Lost Time Injury Rates LTIR, Total HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING Recordable Injury Rates TRIR and numbers The Drax Group approach is outlined in our of Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Group Health and Safety policy.
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs or US equivalent for the Group.
com about-us health-and-safety TRIR is included in the Group scorecard.
Each business unit and corporate team haslocal arrangements in place, appropriate HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE to the operating environment and hazards inherent in the workplace, to ensure that 2017 Actual 2017 Target 2016 2015 high standards are set and maintained.
Lost Time Injury Rates 1 LTIR 0.13 0.10 0.02 0.05 We have well-established Safety Management Systems SMS in place to Total Recordable Injury Rates 2 ensure safe workplaces for all our people.
At TRIR 0.27 0.30 0.22 0.31 Drax Power, the SMS is certied to OHSAS Reporting of Injuries, 18001 and subject to regular compliance Diseases and Dangerous reviews, the last of which took place in 2017.
Occurrences Regulations At Drax Biomass, the SMS meets the RIDDOR 76 42 requirements of OHSAS 18001 and the United States certication ANSI Z10.
1 LTIR is the total fatalities and lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked 2 TRIR is the total fatalities, lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 hours worked
