Strategic Report Operating and PerformanceReview ITV has delivered a good performance in 2017 as we continue to rebalance and strengthen the business creatively andcommercially.
Victoria averaged 6.4 million viewers and a 25% share for its second series.
It has been recommissioned fora third series in the UK and has been sold to over 150 countries.
22 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review ITV has delivered a strong operational Statutory profit before tax declined by Key highlights performance in a challenging year 10%to 500 million 2016: 553 million withongoing economic and political andstatutory EPS declined by 9% to uncertainty in the UK.
ITV took action 10.2pprimarily due to the decline in earnings NAR revenue early to reduce overhead costs but the and higher amortisation and impairment uncertainty has undoubtedly had an ofacquired assets, which isexplained in 1,591m impact on the demand for television more detail in the FinanceReview.
advertising and therefore as expected 2016: 1,672m ITVs financial performance.
We have a strong balance sheet and Total non-NAR revenue thebusiness continues to be highly cash We set ourselves challenging objectives to generative.
Our profit to cash conversion 2,066m grow our on-screen and online viewing and remains high at 91% and we ended the deliver good growth in non-NAR.
And ITV yearwith net debt of 912 million 2016: 2016: 1,855m has delivered on these as we have continued 637million after the effect of acquisitions Group external revenue to rebalance and strengthen the business andinvestments of 95 million, dividend creatively and commercially.
On-screen, our payments of 494 million and pension 3,132m share of viewing was up for the second year, contributions of 80 million.
2016: 3,064m up 2%, the ITV Hub continues to deliver strong viewing, up 39%, Online, Pay & The Board has proposed an ordinary Adjusted EBITA Interactive revenue grew 7% and total dividend of 7.8p, an increase of 8%, ITVStudios revenue grew 13% including reflecting our confidence in the underlying 842m currency benefit.
We have a strong creative strength of the business and the outlook 2016: 885m pipeline of high-quality programmes, for2018.
This is in line with the Boards particularly drama and entertainment, commitment to a long-term sustainable Adjusted EPS andwe continue to perform well across dividend policy and for ordinary dividends to thekey genres that return and travel.
grow broadly in line with earnings, targeting 16.0p dividend cover of around 2x adjusted 2016: 17.0p We measure performance through a earnings per share over the medium term.
rangeof metrics, particularly through our Statutory EPS alternative performance measures and KPIs We remain focused on being a creator, as well as our statutory results, all of which owner, distributor and broadcaster of 10.2p are set out later in the report.
content and in 2017 we continued to deliver 2016: 11.2p on our strategy to diversify the business and External revenue was up 2% to 3,132 million grow new revenue streams, further reducing Net debt 2016: 3,064 million, with 11% growth in our reliance on UK spot advertising and non-NAR more than offsetting the decline making ITV a stronger and more resilient 912m in NAR, a clear indication that our strategy business.
We continue to build our free-to- 2016: 637m of rebalancing the business isworking.
56% air, online and pay businesses through of total revenues came fromsources other Broadcast & Online and are further growing Dividend per share ordinary than spot television advertising non-NAR.
our international content and distribution business, ITV Studios.
We are currently 7.8p Adjusted EBITA declined 5% to 842million undertaking a strategic refresh to ensure 2016: 7.2p 2016: 885 million and adjusted EPS wehave a clear strategy and well-dened declined 6% to 16.0p 2016: 17.0p impacted priorities which reflect what ITV needs to by a 5% decline in NAR and the ongoing bein three and five years time.
investment across the business and the factthat the prior year includes thefull 37million revenue and profit benefit of the four year licence deal for The Voice of China.
We did however benefit from the delivery of29 million of overhead cost savings and 25 million lower schedule costs.
Broadcast & Online adjusted EBITA declined 7% and ITVStudios adjusted EBITA was flat.
The Voice Kids launched in the UK in 2017.
Ithas been recommissioned for a second series.
The format has been sold to 35 countries.
23 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued Broadcast & Online street was weak while supermarkets Viewing The media environment in which we increased their spend and some of the On-screen we performed strongly with operateis constantly changing.
Our Broadcast FMCGs returned tospend in the second half viewing up for the second consecutive year.
& Online business is robust and evolving of 2017.
Entertainment & Leisure was down, We increased our spend on entertainment totake advantage of the significant impacted by tough comparatives from the but sports costs were lower as aresult of opportunities forgrowth.
European Football Championship in 2016. there being nomajor sports tournament Cars and Telecommunications increased in2017.
ITV through its free-to-air channels offers theirspend around product launches and unique audience scale and reach as well digital brands continue to spend heavily ITV Family SOV grew 2%with a strong asthe key demographics demanded by ontelevision to build brand awareness.
The ITV Hub, the digital home of growth is the second biggest in ITVs forall our channels and content, is growing Total costs were down as the cost savings recent history and never before has ITV rapidly, driven by viewers appetite for catch and lower schedule costs offset the increased delivered two years of consecutive growth.
up and VOD and the quality of our content.
investment on the ITV Hub, ITVHub and ITV Daytime shows including Good Morning We continue to explore and trial new ways, Box Ofce our pay-per-view channel used Britain, This Morning and The Chase grew both free and pay, to distribute content to toshow boxing matches.
their audiences and Coronation Street broadcasters and platform owners as well andEmmerdale continue to perform well asdirectly to consumers.
Overall Broadcast & Online adjusted EBITA and are now the UKs two largest soaps.
declined 7% to 599 million 2016: 642 Welaunched the sixth weekly episode Financial performance million which has led to a one percentage ofCoronation Street in September, which Broadcast & Online total revenue was point reduction in the adjusted EBITA margin hasfurther strengthened its performance.
Wesuccessfully aired a range of new dramas 2,132million.
We delivered 7% growth in 2017 2016 Change Change Online, Pay & Interactive, driven by doubleTwelve months to 31 December on a continuing basis m m m % digit growth in online advertising, but this NAR 1,591 1,672 81 5 was offset by the 5% decline in NAR.
Including Online, Pay & Interactive revenue 248 231 17 7 sponsorship, VOD and self-promotion, SDN external revenue 70 67 3 4 ITVtotal advertising was down 3%.
Other commercial income 166 162 4 2 Advertising categories such as Retail, Finance Broadcast & Online non-NARrevenue 484 460 24 5 and Food continued to see declines due Total Broadcast & Online revenue 2,075 2,132 57 3 tothe uncertain economic outlook, along Total schedule costs 1,025 1,050 25 2 with the weaker pound causing inflationary Other costs 451 440 11 3 pressures, leading advertisers to reduce Total Broadcast & Online adjusted EBITA 599 642 43 7 spend in order to maintain margins.
Within Retail, spending has been mixed: the high Adjusted EBITA margin 29% 30% Good Karma Hospital was the third most watched drama on ITV in 2017, averaging 6.9million viewers and a 26% share.
It has been recommissioned for a second series in 2018.
24 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review Diana, Our Mother: Her Life & Legacy was ITVs highest rated factual in over 14 years.
It had 9.4 million viewers and a 36% share.
Unforgotten returned to ITV for its second series.
It is produced by Mainstreet Pictures, part of ITV Studios UK.
It averaged 6.1 million viewers and has been recommissioned for a third series in2018.
including Liar, Good Karma Hospital, andhave seen a significant increase in Long-form video requests were up 34% Fearless, Bancroft and Little Boy Blue and ourtarget demographics on ITV2 and ITV4.
andonline viewing consumption, which new entertainment shows, The Voice, The Our 1634s share of commercial impacts measures how long viewers are spending Voice Kids, The Keith and Paddy Picture SOCI on ITV2 was up 17% helped by the online, was up 39%.
The ITV Hub has now Show and Five Gold Rings, as well as new phenomenal success of Love Island as well beenthe fastest-growing public service sitcom Bad Move.
We continued to drive as Celebrity Juice, Family Guy and American broadcaster online service for the lastthree significant audiences with our returning Dad.
Male SOCI on ITV4 was up 12% helped years driven by the good user experience brands such as Broadchurch which was by ITVs horse racing coverage, The French andgreat content and now has 21 million themost watched drama in the year Vera, Open andthe Isle of Man TT Races.
Unforgotten, Victoria, Cold Feet, Ant & Decs viewing performance improved in the year Saturday Night Takeaway, Im A Celebrity due to the strong performance of dramas The ITV Hub helps ITV reach valuable younger Get Me Out Of Here!
such as Midsomer Murders, Lewis and audiences 75% of the UKs 1624 year olds Our news programming continues to Endeavour.
ABC1 adults SOCI on ITV3 was are registered together with 65% ofthe UKs perform well with highlights including our up1% making it the most popular digital 1634 year olds.
Younger viewers increasingly General Election coverage, as does our channel for this demographic.
use the ITV Hub for simulcast viewing, as sporting schedule with the Six Nations wellas catch up, with programmes such as Rugby Championships and the launch of ITV Hub Love Island delivering record viewing with horse racing on ITV.
Some of our schedule The ITV Hub, which is now available on 1.3million simulcast requests for the final.
did not perform as well as we had hoped, 29platforms, continues to grow rapidly, forexample The Nightly Show, Fearless and driven by viewing on mobile and connected We are using the insight we gain from our Bigheads, so will not return in 2018. televisions.
The ITV Hub is now pre-installed registered users to develop more targeted on around 90% of all connected televisions advertising solutions and to increasingly drive We continue to target the hard to reach sold in the UK and launched on Apple TV, viewing through personalisation.
In theyear, demographics demanded by advertisers Apples new TV app and Microsoft XBox we launched personalised ITV Hub home particularly young and male audiences in2018.
pages for our audiences and have introduced through our digital channels and online, data-driven recommendations and mobile notications to registered users.
25 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued ITV commercial audiences Strong advertising proposition As a result, ITVs Other commercial income While political and economic uncertainty increased by 2%, with new sponsorship has led advertisers to reduce their current around ITV horse racing and The Voice, spend, television remains one of the offset by areduction in third-party airtime mostefcient and effective mediums for sales commission and revenue primarily advertisers to achieve mass simultaneous from UTV following ITVs acquisition in reach.
As viewing and advertising becomes February 2016 and successful integration more fragmented, thescale of advertising ofthe business.
2017 that television, andparticularly ITV, delivers 96% becomes increasingly valuable.
Digital advertising is growing rapidly and 99% 13 14 15 16 17 wehave seen double-digit growth in our Over 3 million ITVs unique ability to deliver mass VOD advertising revenues on the ITV Hub, Over 5 million audiences, as well as more targeted which delivers more targeted demographics demographics across the family of channels, and ahigh-quality, trusted and measured has enabled us to again increase our share environment for online advertisers.
ofthe television advertising market SOB to 47.6% from 47.4%.
ITV delivered 99% of all In 2017, ITVannounced a trial for addressable commercial audiences over five million and advertising with Sorenson on connected 96% of all commercial audiences over three Smart televisions.
We have also launched million.
SOV provides an overall measure atrial of a self-service portal so that any ofviewing performance, but because business, however small, can easily access advertisers are buying scale and breadth advertising on ITV.
ofaudience, SOV isnot necessarily a direct indicator of advertising performance.
Remain responsive to a changing media environment ITV aims to maximise further the value of Linear television viewing remains resilient itsairtime and drive new revenue streams despite significant changes in the availability through sponsorship, interactivity and and delivery of content.
On average viewers branded extensions.
ITV utilises the core watched 203 minutes of television a day in assets of its strong brand and reputation, 2017.
This is lower than 212 minutes in 2016 unique commercial relationships and quality and partly is due to there being nomajor production capability to deliver a wide sports tournament in2017.
The majority variety of marketing solutions.
ofviewing remains live at over 75% as Horse Racing moved to ITV from Channel 4 television continues to have the power in2017 with races broadcast across ITV main tobring audiences together.
VOD viewing channel and ITV4 during the year.
continues to grow rapidly while PVR recorded viewing has remained relatively constant over the last few years at around 13%.
Younger viewers are watching less linear television than they used to, but through delivering great content such as The Voice, Britains Got Talent, Saturday Night Takeaway and Love Island, television reaches around 90% of young people each week and remains their dominant choice ofmedia.
Developing ITVs digital broadcast assets We are further developing our social media assets across our international portfolio of programmes as live television continues to demonstrate a growing relevance as viewers increasingly connect and engage through social media.
We now have over 160 YouTube branded channels and had around 20 owned and operated programme apps across the year which, together with our quality content, isdriving significant growth in viewer engagement.
Our programmes generated over 100 million interactions in 2017.
26 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 96 100 95 99 93 98 95 99 96 99 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review We are continuing to develop the ITV Hub, our ad-free subscription version of the ITV Hub, which while relatively small, tripled itssubscribers in the year.
We have extended the service across all platforms sosubscribers can now watch on mobile, PCand connected televisions and launched it on Amazon.
Over the last few years we have also established a number of smaller pay propositions.
We own a majority stake inCirkus, a best of British SVOD service inthe Nordics and Germany.
We also have ageneral entertainment channel, ITV Choice, for emerging markets available inover 100countries.
We are trialling ITV Box Ofce, a direct toconsumer pay per view offering which currently focuses on boxing and we have anumber of live events based around our key brands, which build relationships directly with our viewers.
For example, we have theEmmerdale Studios Experience, which showcases the process of creating an episode of the soap, and This Morning Live, ashopping and lifestyle festival.
Saturday Night Takeaway returned for Building our pay offering in the UK its14th series in 2017 and averaged 7.9 million andinternationally ITV also continues to license its channels viewers and a 37% share across the series returns As a creator, owner and distributor of sought and content across multiple platforms, for a 15th series in 2018. after content, ITV is well positioned to take including our HD digital channels and advantage of the opportunities that arise catch-up VOD on Sky and Virgin Media set from the changes we are seeing in digital top boxes and all our live channels and catch media and consumer behaviour.
We must up VOD across their connected platforms.
ensure that however our content is viewed We announced that ITV Encore will close and on whatever platform it is viewed on, asan exclusive Sky channel in 2018 which we are paid the appropriate value for it.
allows ITV to distribute box sets more widely across multiple platforms.
The closure As we look to build our pay offerings, we are ofEncore will impact ITVs pay revenues developing SVOD services to target direct in2018.
In March 2017, we launched our US jointventure with the SDN BBC, BritBox, with AMC Networks taking SDN generates revenue by licensing capacity aminority share, anad-free SVOD service to broadcast channels, radio stations and offering the most comprehensive collection data providers on digital terrestrial of British content in the US.
A version of the television or Freeview.
It holds a licence service also launched in Canada in February withcapacity for 16 broadcast channels, 2018 and we now have over 250,000 including ITV services and third-party subscribers in total.
In 2018, we will explore channels.
SDN external revenue grew opportunities for BritBox on other platforms, 4%driven by the full year impact of the include original commissions, andlook to 16thstream, which was launched in 2016. roll it out further internationally.
Our pay offerings 27 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued 2017 2016 Change Change ITV Studios Twelve months to 31 December m m m % Growing an international content business Studios UK 692 626 66 11 has beencentral to ITVs strategy as ITV America 313 235 78 33 anintegrated producer broadcaster.
Studios RoW 390 355 35 10 AsITVcreates and owns more content, ourchannels in the UKprovide aplatform Global Entertainment 187 179 8 4 toshowcase our programmes before Total Studios revenue 1,582 1,395 187 13 distributing them across multiple platforms Total Studios costs 1,339 1,152 187 16 in the UK and internationally.
Total Studios adjusted EBITA 243 243 Studios adjusted EBITA margin 15% 17% Growing demand for content The strong global demand for content from Includes the benefit of production tax credits.
broadcasters and platform owners provides significant opportunity for ITV Studios.
2017 2016 Change Change Weestimate that the global content Twelve months to 31 December m m m % marketis growing at around 5% per annum, Sales from ITV Studios to Broadcast & Online 523 463 60 13 with some genres, such as drama, growing External revenue 1,059 932 127 14 more rapidly.
To capitalise on this growth, Total Studios revenue 1,582 1,395 187 13 we continue to develop, own and manage rightsin genres that return and travel internationally, namely drama, entertainment Total organic revenue, which excludes In 2017, the foreign currency benefit was and factual entertainment, and we have ourcurrent year acquisitions and foreign 43million on revenue and 7 million on built a healthy pipeline of newand exchange, wasup 7% and acquisitions adjusted EBITA.
continue to deliver with a 13% return Adjusted EBITA was flat year-on year at oninvestment in2017.
There was good underlying Financial performance profit growth but adjusted EBITA was ITV Studios is now a global producer Reflecting our growth in key production impacted by our ongoing investment in ofscaleand total revenues grew 13% markets in Europe and the US, 54% of ITV USdrama and the fact that the prior year to1,582million 2016: 1,395 million total revenue was generated outside the includes the full 37 million benefit of the including currency benefit, with growth UK 2016: 50%.
ITV is the number one four year licence deal for The Voice of China.
across the business as we continue to commercial producer in the UK and a leading Adjusted EBITA margin declined by two buildour capability in key creative markets.
producer in Europe and the US.
As our percentage points to 15%, impacted by Studios business grows internationally, revenue mix on new and returning shows.
foreign currency movements have an increasing impact on our results.
Profilage is a French crime drama produced by Tetra Media Studio, which was acquired by ITV Studios in 2017.
Prolage is in its eighth season and is broadcast on TF1.
28 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review Big Stars Little Star is a UK primetime entertainment format produced by ITV Studios.
The format has been sold to 14 countries.
Building scale in key creative markets of a majority stake in World Productions, ITV Studios has three production divisions theproducer of Line of Duty, and our Key new and returning Studios UK, ITV America and Studios Rest entertainment business with an investment scripted programmes of World RoW.
Across these divisions, ITV in start-up Koska in October.
produced over 8,400 hours of programming, compared to 7,800 in 2016 and secured 240 ITV America total revenue grew 33% to recommissions and 239 new commissions 313million 2016: 235 million including inthe year.
We delivered five drama commissions the third series ofthe The US and the UK are the dominant GoodWitch for Hallmark which has been creative markets, with the US the largest commissioned for a fourth series, Sun Records exporter of scripted content and the UK the for CMT, Somewhere Between for ABC and world leader in exported formats.
Over the two pilots for TNT, Highland and Snowpiecer, last few years we have built scale in these which has been commissioned for a ten-part key markets, both organically and through series.
We have also delivered ahigh volume acquisitions, and we now have a significant of programmes from our entertainment portfolio of successful series and formats portfolio including two series ofHells that travel.
Kitchen, Pawn Stars, Alone, Forged in Fire and First 48 and new commissions including The UK performed well with total revenue Sideserf, World Hip Hop Star and Big Stars up 11%at 692 million 2016: 626 million.
Wecontinue to grow our sales to ITV, which were up 13% with deliveries including The Studios RoW has production bases in Voice, The Voice Kids, Love Island, Next of Australia, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Kin, Bancroft, Fearless, Unforgotten, Little the Nordics and Italy where we produce Boy Blue and an extra episode of Coronation original content as well as local versions of Street.
We have again grown ITV Studios ITV Studios UK and Talpa formats.
Revenue UKshare of original content on ITV main grew 10% to 390 million 2016: 355 million channel from 63% to 66%.
Our off-ITV including foreign exchange, driven particularly revenues grew 10% with deliveries including by good growth in Australia, France and The City And The City, Shetland, Moorside theNordics.
Across the territories, our and Motherland for BBC, Back for Channel 4, entertainment and format deliveries Blind Date for Channel 5 and Living the included The Voice in Australia and Dream for Sky.
We strengthened ourUK Germany, The Chase in Australia and drama business with the acquisition in April Germany, and Love Island in Germany.
29 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued Talpacontinues to develop its formats We have further strengthened our including The Voice Senior, AYear To international business with a number Remember, I Love My Country, AWhole ofother small investments.
In April, NewBeginning and Around The World With weacquired a 45% stake in Blumhouse 80 Year Olds.
Our international scale now Television, established by Jason Blum, enables ITV to make The Voice and these therenowned lm and television producer, other formats in all our international which nances and produces original production territories and therefore earn the scripted and unscripted dark genre Marriage Boot Camp is a US reality production revenue as well as the format fee.
programming for global audiences including entertainment format produced by ThinkFactory The Jinx and Cold Case Files.
In May we Media which is part of ITV America, and is now in Some of our content will not be entered into a joint venture with the US its 11th season.
recommissioned in 2018 as they have talent agent and production company, notperformed as expected, for example Circleof Confusion, and in June we acquired The Loch and Sun Records.
Elk Production, aSwedish entertainment production company.
We are making real progress in building aEuropean scripted business.
In February Investing in content with 2017, ITV acquired a majority stake in Tetra international appeal Media Studio, a French scripted production We have continued to expand our portfolio company, and in October ITV acquired of successful formats and series that return amajority stake in Cattleya, the Italian and can be distributed internationally.
scripted production company behind Gomorrah and Suburra.
We also took a stake With the acquisition of Talpa Media in 2015, in a Danish scripted producer Apple Tree we havesignicantly strengthened our Productions in December.
These, along with global capability in entertainment formats.
our existing European drama businesses, Across the business, we have grown a solid willenable us to benefit from the increasing portfolio of high volume and high margin demand for locally produced content with formats that travel internationally and that global appeal.
For example, during 2017 Poldark is produced by Mammoth Screen we produced The Voice in five countries partof ITV Studios UK for the BBC.
It has been andThe Voice Kids and Four Weddings in recommissioned for a fourth season in 2018 and four countries.
has been sold to over 150 countries.
Demand for drama is growing strongly as standout original content becomes brand dening for both broadcasters and OTT players.
To capitalise on this, we are investing in our global scripted business, particularly inthe US, to build on the success of our UKdrama business.
We are strengthening ourdevelopment and creative capabilities internally and have invested in a number ofdevelopment relationships.
In 2017, weincreased our investment in drama across the business, investing 243 million 2016: 160 million.
We finance our large-scale scripted projects through our strong underlying cash flows orthrough co-productions and partnerships with broadcasters and OTT platforms.
Theproduction costs are partly funded by the initial sale of the series to a broadcaster, while the deficit the difference between the cost and what the broadcaster pays, isrecovered through distribution revenue from selling the nished product globally toother broadcasters and platforms.
30 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review We balance our financial exposure through Entertainments pipeline of new projects is building a portfolio of programmes across strengthening with projects such as Vanity genres and across their content life cycle, Fair, The City And The City and World On Fire with successful international dramas expected for2018.
offsetting the risk that we will not recover the full deficit on every show.
Our content continues to sell well internationally to broadcasters and OTT We are seeing increasing demand from OTT platforms and in particular, our scripted platforms for original long-form content programmes with titles including Victoria, and secondary rights.
As well as distributing Poldark, Vera, Good Witch, The Murdoch library content to OTT platforms through Mysteries, Schitts Creek, The Loch, Fearless Global Entertainment, we are also and Harlots.
Over 15 of our scripted producing and jointly commissioning programmes have been sold to more than anumber of scripted and unscripted 100 countries Our entertainment and 5 Gold Rings is a new entertainment format programmes with OTT platforms including factual entertainment formats are highly co-produced by Talpa Media and Possessed part Vanity Fair with Amazon, Robozuna, and demanded and include programmes such of ITV Studios UK.
It was broadcast in the UK in QueerEye for the Straight Guy for Netflix, asThe Voice, Love Island, The Chase, Big 2017and will return for a second series in 2018.
Harlots for Hulu and we arein development Stars Little Star, This Time Next Year, Five The format was sold to four countries in 2017. with a number of shows forFacebook.
Gold Rings, Come Dine With Me and Four Weddings.
In 2017, we sold 62 different Expanding our global formats internationally, 17 of which are distribution business being produced by ourselves or other Global Entertainment, the distribution producers in three or more countries armwithin ITV Studios, delivered revenue including Love Island, Keeping the Nation growth of 4% to 187 million 2016: 179 Alive and Hells Kitchen.
We currently have million as we continue to drive value from over 250 programme supply agreements our investment in creating and owning the inplace with online platforms including rights to quality content with international Netflix, Amazon and Hulu.
As well as funding and creating new content from ITVStudios, we also invest in third-party producers and their content from all over the world.
Global Love Island is a UK reality entertainment format, the third series of which was broadcast onITV2 in 2017.
The format has been sold to six countries including Australia and Germany.
31 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued Productivity Pictured: Behind the scenes onCoronationStreet We consistently seek to drive People productivity across the Group by During the year, we continued to invest in our people, rolling out a new conversation investing in our people, new broadcast based performance management process and continuing to provide general and and production technology as well as more specic training for staff across the business.
We use employee engagement scores as a key measure.
We will undertake our next By investing in these areas, we aim to engagement survey in 2018.
Our 2016 survey showed that ITV continues to have high transmit our content and advertisements levels of engagement 90%, see the KPIs section on pages 36 to 39 for details on how more efficiently, increase our production this is measured.
We always seek to recruit and promote internally where possible with output and therights we own and 34% ofvacancies in 2017 lled from within ITV.
Broadcast and content technology One of the key initiatives in our Broadcast business is to improve our processes around our content supply chain, which includes how we store our content and how our content ismanaged and ultimately played out via our transmission centres.
We have sought to reduce the time taken from live transmission to content being available for catch up on the ITV Hub.
We are in the process of upgrading our advertising sales system and during the year we began investigating how robotic process automation may benefit ITV in thefuture.
Production facilities September 2017 saw the launch of a sixth weekly episode of Coronation Street, which required a significant step up in productivity and investment in expanding the production site with new streets, as well as new equipment, sound stages and a state of the art production control room.
We refresh our regional news production facilities on a continuous rotation basis and this year we built new facilities for our UTV licence in Northern Ireland.
During 2018, we are relocating our Daytime studios to a new state ofthe art facility as part of our London property move.
We also seek to use established and emerging technology to drive productivity, where it makes commercial sense to do so.
In our Studios business, we have recently implemented a new process and technology for script editing and management.
We commenced roll-out of a bespoke artist payment system, which has reduced duplication across the business and uses less paper.
Our regional news teams are taking advantage of new production technologies and increasingly use mobile kits that enable reporters to shoot more efficiently and transmit high-quality live reports.
32 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review Pictured: Broadchurch 33
