Strategic Report: Chief Financial Officers review Chief Financial Officers review It was pleasing to deliver a record profit with lots of positives from around the Group A near break-even EU insurance result Ogden discount rate Results plus improvements in some key metrics Regular readers of our results will be very No last minute change to the Ogden whilst growing premiums by almost a familiar with the Ogden topic and I wont discount rate made for a somewhat quarter in not exactly the easiest of repeat the full detail here.
A year ago we smoother year-end and it was pleasing to market conditions estimated that the change in rate which deliver a record profit with lots of positives Breaking through one million customers came into effect in March 2017 would cost from around the Group.
Performance of our outside the UK in September 2017 the Group around 150 million after tax and various businesses is covered in detail in reinsurance.
Most of the impact has now the Strategic Report and whilst its hard to Comfortably beating our targets for been reflected in the income statement choose highlights from many potentials, Admiral Loans in its first proper year of and we still consider the 150 million a Ill try anyway: operation valid estimate.
Achieving marketing break-even in A nice, continued improvement in the Compare.
com ahead of target These accounts and our current capital International Insurance result 22 million Very positive progress in converting our position assume the minus 0.75% rate loss in 2015, 19 million in 16, 14 million Gladiator van insurance broker portfolio remains effective indefinitely, as we think in 17 to being underwritten within the Group thats the prudent thing to do in the absence of other information.
And of course, a record UK Insurance profit of 466 million.
Sensitivities in terms of balance sheet and capital to different rates are set out on And for balance, a few of the less positive page 22. aspects: Investment behind the Drivers Win In the 2016 Annual Report, we disclosed a campaign alongside new product profit number 390 million that the Group development cost and a generally fierce would have reported had the Ogden rate market led to a fall in profits at Confused.
This years Group com 16 million to 10 million profit of 405 million is around 4% higher than that pre-Ogden number, though 2017s Despite continued confidence in the longprofit is further adversely impacted by the term prospects of the business, there was Ogden change to the order of 40 million.
As a 25 million write down in the carrying the comparatives become less helpful, we value of Elephant Auto in the parent have not repeated the pre-Ogden number company balance sheet from 2016 in this report.
2017 saw higher Group overheads and other items some of which are nonThe financial statements continue to include recurring at 52.9 million v 36.8 million.
a significant and prudent margin above the projected ultimate claims outcomes, Further detail on these latter points although this margin has reduced since can be found on pages 30, 146 the end of 2016, partly due to increased and 31 respectively.
confidence over the impact of the change in Ogden rate to minus 0.75%.
14 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Things are more straightforward on the price Capital, Dividends, Internal Model comparison side where we are setting up Speaking of capital, not too much has new, locally regulated entities in Spain and changed since the end of 2016.
Our France through which Rastreator and LeLynx solvency ratio remains very strong at over will trade.
Again, we expect these moves to 200%, though has reduced modestly since be complete in good time.
the end of 2016, mainly as the result of growth.
A ratio of over 200% is still higher The cost of the restructuring work will than wed expect to report in the medium not be material to the Group and we dont long-term.
However copy and paste alert, expect there to be material impact on the we continue to believe thats the prudent Groups regulatory capital position as a result approach as we move towards applying to of the restructure.
use our own model to calculate the capital I'm looking forward to continued growth and requirement no change to report on the progress across the Group in 2018. expected submission date which is late in 2018.
Well continue to provide updates as we make progress.
Brexit Geraint Jones We have made good progress on preparing the Group to be able to continue trading in Chief Financial Officer Europe should, as seems highly likely, we lose 27 February 2018 the ability to passport our UK regulatory licenses into those markets.
In terms of insurance, we have made applications to the regulator in Spain for permission to underwrite all the EU insurance business Admiral Seguros, ConTe and Lolivier from there and expect to have everything up and running in advance of any hard deadline that might eventually become clear.
Spain made sense for us for a number of reasons, not least the fact that we already have people and infrastructure in Madrid and Seville and of course an existing relationship with the regulator.
A Ad dm mi ir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 15 15
