esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc 1.
OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of esure Group plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows, Parent Company statement of financial position, Parent Company statement of cash flows, Parent Company statement of changes in equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders for the financial year ended 31 December 2000, prior to the Company becoming a listed entity.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the five financial years ended 31 December 2017 as a public interest entity and 17 years in total.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 7.6m 2016: 7.5m 1% 2016: 1% of total income Coverage 99% 2016: 99% of Group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Recurring risk Valuation of claims outstanding Group Parent Company Valuation of Parent Company investments in Group undertakings 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise on the following page the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT CONTINUED The risk Our response Valuation of claims Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: outstanding The valuation of claims outstanding is one of the Control operation: We met with the Groups actuarial team to 798.9m: 2016: 672.9m key judgmental areas upon which our audit is understand the internal reserving and discussed the processes concentrated, due to the level of subjectivity and controls in place.
We tested the operational effectiveness of Refer to page 41 Audit inherent in the estimation of the effect of the governance arrangements and key controls around the Committee Report, page 84 uncertain or unknown future events and the internal reserving process, including controls over setting of accounting policy and page resulting potential exposure to large losses.
reserves for reported claims, by inspection: 105 financial disclosures.
Significant levels of uncertainty include specific Assessing valuers credentials: We evaluated the competence, claims reserves for reported claims plus an capabilities and objectivity of the Groups actuaries based on estimate for claims incurred but not reported discussions with them, our knowledge of the actuaries IBNR as some claims can take some time qualifications and the professional standards that their work is to emerge or develop.
Actuarial techniques are subject to, and by providing challenge to their analysis through also required to determine the best estimate of the procedures described below: reported claims and the IBNR and losses arising Our sector experience: We benchmarked the Groups from large bodily injury claims for motor methodology, key actuarial assumptions and projected results, insurance, some of which involve periodic such as the ultimate loss ratio, against our expectations given our payment orders PPOs.
cumulative knowledge of the sector: Resulting key areas of focus are the key actuarial Benchmarking assumptions: We have assessed the assumptions, including inflation, ultimate loss assumptions applied on the estimation of the value of the claims ratio being the ultimate loss as a proportion of outstanding for reasonableness, through analytical procedures premiums received, claims development trends, including claims development trends over time: Ogden rate changes, net cost per policy, PPO propensities, discount rates applied to PPOs Historical comparisons: We considered the movement in and longevity.
reserves relating to claims incurred in prior years to assess the reasonableness of Directors past assumptions and the methodology used to estimate claims outstanding: Expectation vs. outcome: Where there have been changes in the methodology or key assumptions we have assessed whether these are reasonable based on changes in the industry and the Groups historical claims experience, and have considered whether all changes we would expect to see have been made: Use of actuarial specialists: We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in our challenge of the reserving methodology and the key assumptions used: Methodology choice: We have considered the reasonableness of the methodologies and projections of the internal actuary by understanding the rationale of the approach: Expectation vs. outcome: We tested the amounts provided on large bodily injury claims including the Ogden Uplift and the PPO Uplift in the context of significant uncertainty: Test of detail: In addition to this, we have agreed a number of large loss reserves to underlying documentation to gain assurance that case reserves held are in line with the Groups reserving methodology: and Assessing transparency: We have considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures over the degree of estimation uncertainty and the sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions, and assessed whether the disclosures comply with relevant accounting standards.
Our results: We found valuation of the claims outstanding to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Valuation of Parent Low risk high value assets: Our procedures included: Company investments The carrying amount of the Parent Companys Test of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of in Group undertakings investments in Group undertakings represents investments with the relevant subsidiarys financial statements 232.5m: 2016: 229.0m 99.9% 2016: 79.3% of the Companys total and or draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high risk being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, Refer to page 123 of significant misstatement or subject to were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether accounting policy and page significant judgement.
However, due to their that subsidiary has historically been profit-making: and 124 financial disclosures.
materiality in the context of the Parent Company Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by financial statements, this is considered to be the the subsidiary audit teams on the two most significant underlying area that had the greatest effect on our overall subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those Parent Company audit.
subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our results: We found the Companys assessment of the valuation of investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
70 71 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc continued 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 7.6m 2016: 7.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total Group revenue of 781.3m, of which it represents 1% 2016: 1%.
We consider total revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year on year than Group profit before tax.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 2.9m 2016: 2.6m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 1% 2016: 1%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 380k, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups six 2016: six reporting components, we subjected two 2016: two to full scope audits for Group purposes and one 2016: one to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
The remaining 1% of total Group income, 1% of Group profit before tax and 1% of total Group assets is represented by three of the reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 1% of any of total Group income, Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team has also completed the audit of the significant components.
The Group team set the component materiality which ranged from 6.7m to 4.0m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Total Group revenue Group income Group profit before tax Group materiality 781.3m 2016: 760.6m 7.6m 2016: 7.5m 1 1 1 1 7.6m Whole financial statements materiality 2016: 7.5m 99% 99% 2016: 99% 2016: 99% 99 99 6.7m Range of materiality 99 99 between two components 6.7m to 4.0m 2016: 6.7m to 4.0m Group total assets 1 1 Total Group revenue 11 380k Group materiality Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2016: 375k 99% 2016: 99% 98 98 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 Residual components Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 4.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON GOING CONCERN We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 19 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: in our opinion, the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of Principal Risks and Longer-term Viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 19 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures, drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
72 73 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of esure Group plc continued 7.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company, or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
We identified relevant areas of laws and regulations from our sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements, including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory capital, conduct, market abuse regulations and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO WHOM WE OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Philip Smart Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 6 March 2018
