Financial review Group results We are now well-placed to benefit from the additional capacity available against a backdrop of continuing favourable market conditions.
Kevin Sims, Chief Financial Officer Group results Prior to exceptional costs see below, Alternative performance measures Group revenue in the year ended profit before taxation was 88.3 million, This results statement contains multiple 31 December 2017 saw an increase representing growth of 12.0% on the alternative performance measures of 3.9% to 451.6 million 2016: prior year.
A description of each APM 434.7 million.
Growth in revenue was is included in Note 3 to the financial Group statutory profit before taxation driven by the performance of our UK statements.
With the exception of our was 83.4 million 2016: 110.9 million businesses, which saw increased trade Return on Capital Employed ROCE a decrease of 24.7%.
This decrease with housebuilders and builders measure, the metrics used are consistent reflects the exceptional non-cash credit of merchants in 2017.
On a constant with those presented in our 2016 Annual 30.3 million in the prior year which arose 1 currency basis, revenue growth was Report and Accounts and there have on the closure of the UK defined benefit 3.0%.
In addition, the construction phase been no changes to the bases of pension scheme and additional one-off of the Groups previously announced calculation.
We have amended our ROCE non-cash finance costs 6.4 million major investment projects drew to a calculation during 2017 in light of the which arose in H1 2017 when the Group conclusion during the year.
We are now recent guidance on APMs from the FRC undertook a refinancing.
well-placed to benefit from the additional and ESMA regulatory bodies and in order capacity available against a backdrop of to provide a clearer, more comparable continuing favourable market conditions.
1 Alternative Performance Measures are described in Note 3 to the financial statements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Adjusted EBITDA Cash flow and net debt Management measure the Groups Cash generated from operations during operating performance using Adjusted 2017 is shown in Table 1, below.
EBITDA, which increased by 7.1% to Our cash generation was in line with our 119.6 million in the year ended expectations and operations remained 31 December 2017.
The increase is driven strongly cash generative in the year ended by the Groups revenue growth in the UK.
31 December 2017, with the Groups cash Input costs for the year were broadly in line conversion static at 88%.
Adjusted free with inflation at around 3%, the exception cash flow increased markedly due to to this being energy which increased in increased profitability and reduced both the UK and US by circa 16-18%.
This expenditure on major capital projects significant increase was partially mitigated during the year although this was by the disposal of surplus carbon credits, mitigated to some extent by greater which reduced this increase to circa 8%.
Taxation We work with an external consultant payments in the prior year were reduced throughout the year to manage our energy due to tax relief on refinancing expenses purchasing: and buy and sell these credits incurred in 2015. at opportune times.
A net working capital balance at Adjusted EBITDA also includes a benefit 31 December 2017 of 48.2 million of 1.7 million relating to the effective compares to 46.1 million at 31 December management of Research and 2016.
Despite inventory destocking within Development claims for 2015 and 2016 our UK Clay operations, the movement 2016: nil.
Management anticipates reflects increased inventory in our US that further claims will be achieved operations and UK concrete products going forward.
particularly roof tiles as management Our US operations saw previous headline sought to build inventory levels towards infrastructure announcements fail to the year end.
Trade receivable levels materialise during 2017.
Combined with a year-on-year also increased due to the highly competitive residential market in the higher sales activity in 2017.
These regions in which Glen-Gery operates, we increases are offset to some extent by saw adjusted EBITDA reduce by 12.1% an increase in trade payables, which has during 2017 in constant currency terms.
arisen as a result of the increased activity Overall the US accounts for 10% of the in the final months of 2017.
Table 1: Cash flow and net debt non-statutory 2017 2016 Change m m m 1 Adjusted EBITDA 120 112 8 Share-based payments 2 2 2 Capex before major projects 15 15 Change in working capital 2 1 1 Adjusted EBITDA maintenance capex change in WC 105 98 7 1 Cash conversion 88% 88% 2 Major project capex 23 44 21 Adjusted cash flow from operating and investing activities 82 54 28 Net interest 4 5 1 Tax 13 7 6 Post-employment benefits 6 4 2 Adjusted free cash flow 59 38 21 1 Alternative Performance Measures are described in Note 3 to the financial statements.
2 Capex on major projects is that capex relating to strategic projects in Leicester, Leighton Buzzard and Cannock.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Financial review continued 1 Net debt borrowings less cash of Taxation Dividend 117.0 million at 31 December 2017, The Group recorded a taxation charge A final dividend of 6.5 pence per ordinary compares to 132.8 million at the prior of 9.9 million 2016: 20.5 million on share 2016: 5.3 pence is being year end.
In March 2017, the Group Group pre-tax profits of 83.4 million recommended for payment on 8 June refinanced its debt arrangements and 2016: 110.9 million for the year ended 2018 to shareholders on the register at entered into a 250 million revolving credit 31 December 2017, resulting in an the close of business on 11 May 2018. facility RCF with a group of six major effective tax rate ETR of 11.8% 2016: This is in addition to our interim dividend banks.
The impact of the reduction in the paid in September 2017 of 2.6 pence per interest cover and leverage covenant limits US federal tax rate on the Groups US ordinary share 2016: 2.4 pence, resulting of 4x and 3x, respectively.
These covenant deferred tax balance and the recognition in a total dividend of 9.1 pence per requirements are consistent with our prior of the tax benefit claimed in respect of ordinary share 18.1% higher that the debt facility and the Group remains the IPO transaction costs incurred during prior year 2016: 7.7 pence.
This is in line significantly within both limits.
See 2015 had a significant impact on the with our dividend policy, which is based Table 2 below.
effective tax rate as shown in note 10. on a pay-out ratio of 40-50% of adjusted Absent changes to the rates of deferred Exchange rates profit after taxation over a business cycle.
taxation, the Groups ETR would have The Group is exposed to movements in In 2017, the Directors have selected a been 16.7% and 21.3% in the current and exchange rates when translating the 42.5% pay-out ratio in determining the prior year, respectively.
results of its US operations from US proposed dividend 2016: 42.5%.
Sterling depreciated Earnings per share Supplementary dividend policy against the Dollar in the year to Statutory basic EPS reduced by 19% to In addition, in light of the Groups strong 31 December 2017, the average exchange 18.1 pence in the year to 31 December adjusted free cash flow, the Board has rate of $1.28:1 was below that of the 2017 2016: 22.3 pence as a result of the reviewed its capital allocation strategy equivalent period in 2016 $1.35:1 and Groups reduced statutory profit after and preserving the necessary flexibility has resulted in a 0.5 million benefit to taxation which was boosted by the to accommodate potential acquisition Adjusted EBITDA in 2017.
30.3 million credit arising on the Groups opportunities and consistent with its pension scheme closure, as discussed Exceptional items objective of maintaining a prudent balance above.
This had a 5.7 pence positive In line with our accounting policy for sheet, has determined a supplementary impact on the 2016 statutory EPS, which exceptional items, we have excluded dividend policy.
This will assess the is not seen in the current year.
certain items from our Adjusted EBITDA Groups capacity for supplementary 1 to aid shareholders understanding of our However, adjusted EPS of 21.4 pence per dividends annually, in light of our reducing underlying financial performance.
share increased by 18% in line with prior net debt to adjusted EBITDA multiple and, years, this metric removes the impact of if approved, will be of a similar scale to the Infrequent events, such as the non-cash exceptional non-trading items, the fair prior year final dividend and paid interest expenses arising from our value uplifts resulting from our acquisition alongside the Groups interim dividend.
refinancing in March 2017 see below and accounting and non-cash interest impacts Subject to market conditions and capital the income statement credit of 1.7 million net of the related taxation charge credit.
allocation priorities, the first supplementary arising on the release of our provision for Adjusted EPS is the Groups measure for dividend is expected to be announced in contingent consideration following Bain calculating distributions to shareholders August 2018 for payment alongside the Capitals disposal of interests in the and has been included to provide a clearer 2018 interim dividend.
Groups shares, have been treated as guide as to the underlying earnings exceptional in the current year.
Further performance of the Group.
A full details of exceptional items are set out in reconciliation of our Adjusted EPS Note 5 of the financial statements.
measure is included in Note 11.
Finance costs Net finance costs of 11.4 million were incurred in the year 2016: 3.1 million.
As Table 2: Financial covenants non-statutory noted above, the single largest element of Position at the current year charge was exceptional Covenant Definition Requirement 31 December 2017 finance costs of 6.4 million.
These Consolidated net debt Ratio of consolidated net debt to 3 : 1 1 : 1 non-cash interest charges, which were consolidated adjusted EBITDA treated as exceptional, arose in the year Interest cover Ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA 4 : 1 28 : 1 in respect of accelerated debt issue fees to consolidated interest expense 3.3 million and accounting adjustments caused by the prior year interest rate change 3.1 million the latter equivalent Table 3: Earnings per share to a non-cash gain from the prior year, 2017 2016 which had been similarly presented as exceptional in the comparative Statutory basic EPS 18.1p 22.3p disclosures.
Adjusted basic EPS 21.4p 18.1p Adjusted basic EPS removing impact of deferred taxation change 20.2p 17.5p Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 40 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Pensions Related party transactions During 2016, the Group conducted a Related party transactions are disclosed consultation with the UK defined benefit in Note 29 to the consolidated financial scheme members, regarding a proposal statements.
During the year, Bain Capital to close the scheme to future accrual for Partners LLC ceased to hold any ordinary all active members.
All members shares in Ibstock plc and no longer has consented to this change and, from significant influence over the Group.
There 1 February 2017, have joined the UK have been no other material related party defined contribution scheme.
This resulted transactions during the year ended in a 30.3 million non-cash credit, which 31 December 2017. was accounted for in our 2016 results.
Subsequent events At 31 December 2017, the defined With the exception of the final dividend benefit scheme was in an actuarial noted above, there have been no further accounting surplus position of events subsequent to 31 December 2017, 46.1 million 31 December 2016: deficit of which management believe require 28.7 million.
At the year end, the scheme adjustment or disclosure.
had asset levels of 659.4 million Going concern 31 December 2016: 683.6 million The Group continues to meet its day to against pension liabilities of 613.4 million day working capital and other funding 31 December 2016: 698.0 million.
The requirements through a combination of improvement in the underlying balance strong operational cash flows generated sheet position over the year is primarily by the business and the long-term funding due to a combination of strong investment in place.
As noted above, the Group returns and actual inflation being lower agreed new banking facilities during the than previously assumed.
This was year, with a five-year 250 million RCF partially offset by a fall in corporate bond replacing the five-year 200 million loan yields, which resulted in an increase in and 40 million committed RCF facility in the value placed on the Schemes place at 31 December 2016. benefit obligations.
Risks and uncertainties The fall in liabilities also reflects the The Board assesses and monitors the significant values transferred out of the key risks impacting the business on an scheme by members following the closure on-going basis.
The Groups activities of the scheme to future accrual.
The expose it to a variety of risks: economic Group continues ongoing work with the conditions, government action and policy, scheme Trustees to fide-risk the pension government regulation and standards and to match asset categories investment relating to the manufacture and use of strategy with the associated liabilities.
building products, customer relationships In the current year, in continuing to apply and reputation, business disruption, IFRIC 14, management has ceased to recruitment and retention of key personnel, recognise an additional liability in respect of input prices, product quality, financial risk the minimum funding obligation following management and pension obligations.
the receipt of legal advice regarding the The Groups risk management approach Groups ability to access a surplus should together with these principal risks and one exist in the pension scheme in the mitigating actions are set out on pages future.
See Note 2 for further details of the 32 to 37.
Groups interpretation of IFRIC 14, the relevant accounting standard.
Within our US segment, certain Kevin Sims employees are members of two multiChief Financial Officer employer post-employment schemes.
5 March 2018 At 31 December 2017, a liability of 8.7 million 31 December 2016: 9.4 million has been recognised in relation to these schemes.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 42 was reviewed and approved by the Board on 5 March 2018.
Wayne Sheppard Chief Executive Officer Kevin Sims 1 Alternative Performance Measures are described Chief Financial Officer in Note 3 of the financial statements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Financial review continued Link to principal risk and Viability Statement Scenario uncertainty pages 34 to 37 Background An economic downturn The Directors have undertaken a comprehensive assessment The impact of a severe and prolonged Economic conditions of the Groups viability as a business rigorously assessing its reduction in demand for its products on markets, the strength of its business model and the potential risks Government action the basis of reduced house building and policy that could impact its ongoing success.
This process involved activity or unexpected changes to carefully reviewing and assessing extensive evidence, from both Government policy resulting in reduced internal and external sources, to evaluate the prospects for the volume of product sold, as well as a Group over a long-term horizon.
benign environment of prolonged price stagnation on sales.
Assessment Managements viability exercise, reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has informed the Directors assessment of Production cost increases the longer-term viability of the business, as part of the year-end A situation whereby the cost of production Input costs review for the preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts, increases as a result of input cost rises Government regulation has robustly assessed the business model, strategy, market across the Group or additional regulatory and standards relating conditions, business planning, risks and the liquidity and solvency costs imposing additional expenditure to the manufacture and within the production process, which the of the Group.
The Group has leading positions within the markets use of building products Group is unable to pass on its customers.
in which it operates, as noted on pages 18 and 19, and its strategy see pages 22 and 23 is aimed at continuing to strengthen its position in those markets and create value for its shareholders.
Disruption in business activities The Groups operations see pages 3 to 5 expose it to a number The impact of an event, such as prolonged Business disruption of risks and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are bad weather, a cyber-attack or other Cyber security noted on pages 34 to 37.
The Directors continually review those unanticipated event, which prevents production at one or more of the Groups risks and determine the appropriate controls and further actions.
facilities and prevents customer demand They have further reviewed the impact within the context of the being met.
The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk as described on page 37.
Reputational damage Lookout period In determining the lookout period to assess the prospects of the A scenario whereby the Groups Customer relationships reputation is damaged, as a result of and reputation Group, the Directors decided that three years was the appropriate customer relationship breakdown, period over which to assess longer-term viability.
The nature of Recruitment and significant employee disengagement or the building products industry is that it is particularly sensitive to retention of key product quality issues, resulting in a the level of economic activity, which is influenced by several personnel sudden reduction in sales activity.
factors outside of the Groups control, including demographic Product quality trends, the state of the housing market, mortgage availability, mortgage interest rates and changes in household income, inflation and Government policy.
The Groups risk mitigation strategies continue to be effective: Based on the evidence available, the Directors believe that it is and reasonable to expect continued growth, and consider that a The Groups past record of successfully mitigating significant three-year period provides the most appropriate horizon over construction industry declines can be replicated.
The Directors have also considered the financing the Group has in place, which is agreed for a period Conclusion in excess of the lookout period used.
Following the facilities In summary, the Directors reasonably expect, based on the refinancing in the year, described in Note 18 to the Group evidence available, that the Group will continue in operation and consolidated financial statements, refinancing is therefore not meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of considered a significant factor in this current assessment, but their assessment.
debt leverage compliance and the Groups cash requirements are monitored on a continuous basis.
Going concern Stress testing The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely During the challenging market conditions of the recent past, the to affect its future development, performance and position are Group performed well, remaining cash positive and implementing set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 42.
The financial a number of mitigating actions that allowed it to remain viable.
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Such mitigating actions remain available to the Directors today.
borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on The Groups viability modelling has stress tested the budget in pages 38 to 41.
In addition, Note 22 to the Group consolidated the following scenarios both individually and in combination: financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and Assumptions processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management In determining the viability of the Group, the Board made the objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging following assumptions: activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, The economic climate in the geographies in which the and has reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
Group operates remains in line with a broad consensus of external forecasts: After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate There is no material change in the legal and regulatory resources to continue in operational existence for a period of frameworks with which the Group complies: at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial There are no material changes in construction methods used statements.
The Board has concluded that the Going Concern in the markets in which the Group operates: basis of accounting of its financial statements is appropriate.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 42 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Governance 44 Chairmans Introduction 45 Board statements 46 Application of the main principles of the Code 48 Leadership 50 Board of Directors 54 Effectiveness 55 Nomination Committee Report 57 Accountability 59 Audit Committee Report 66 Directors Remuneration Report 84 Directors Report 86 Statement of Directors responsibilities 87 Independent auditors report Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43
