Financial Review Highlights of 2017 James Smith, Chief Financial Officer Financial : %  X  X facility was undrawn at year end with expected peak availability of Sustainable was available at year end 2017 % c production Exploration Finance Facility of 8 U and cashflows development expenditure for committed E&A expenditure for Cairn achieved first production from both Kraken and Catcher during the year with both fields expected k c to reach plateau by H2 2018.
Cairn expects the JV 31 December 2017 to shortly sanction the Nova development in the Norwegian North Sea, where first oil is expected Remaining cash outflows in respect of activities in 2021, and is progressing development planning these forecasts.
in Senegal where first oil is targeted between 2021 and 2023.
Together, these assets will provide long term sustainable production and cashflows which the Group will continue to deploy across its portfolio.
35 Strategic Report Financial Review continued Cashflow and liquidity Major cash outflows during the year arose e % on the continued spend on the Groups US$m F : 500 pre-award costs and new venture activities.
28 145 75 400 U a 335 e 300 187 of interest relating to historic Mongolian royalty claims is included in finance income.
200 2 44 8 30 100 8 86 8 including the costs of shares purchased and 0 Opening cash Proceeds Proceeds from Development Exploration Pre-award Net cash Administration Proceeds from Corporate Foreign Closing cash finance lease refunds.
and cash from stream borrowings expenditure and appraisal costs inflow from expenses and Norwegian fixed assets exchange and cash equivalents agreement under EFF expenditure oil production net finance tax refund movements equivalents and royalty income % Finance Facility EFF in Norway which Increase in assets Decrease in assets allows the Group to borrow in advance of the tax refund due on qualifying exploration been drawn on the facility.
The Group also Oil and Gas assets c relating to qualifying exploration expenditure A reconciliation of additions on oil and gas assets to cashflow movements is set out below: US$m FlowStream streaming agreement.
1,900 23 96 1,826 168 61 21 The Groups RBL facility remained undrawn 1,700 at the year end, with peak availability 212 1,500 34 63 to include Nova within the borrowing base 104 1,300 assets and amend the facility terms to 1,206 increase availability.
1,100 Cairn has commenced a hedging 900 Opening Exploration Exploration Exploration Development Development Unsuccessful Reversal of Depletion Foreign Closing programme in order to protect debt capacity oil and gas additions additions additions additions additions - exploration impairment and exchange oil and gas assets Senegal UK & Norway International UK & Norway UK & Norway costs loss amortisation movements assets and support committed capital programmes.
leased assets UK & Kraken FPSO Norway Increase in assets Decrease in assets and collar structures with a weighted average x Exploration Development x Appraisal Producing instruments have been designated for hedge U UK & Senegal Norway International Total Norway accounting where permissible under the US$m US$m accounting standards.
The time value of Additions the options is not designated as part of the Working capital and provisions hedged item and the mark-to-market Finance lease liability F Statement are the only impact on the results Carried non-cash for the year as the closing oil price remained Cash outflow above the floor and below the ceilings created.
{X e  e 36 Exploration assets Development producing assets Catcher Senegal Kraken e During the year, Cairn completed a further Kraken development asset additions in the final amounts carried by Dyas of five exploration and appraisal wells in Senegal.
The objective of this third phase increase in decommissioning assets.
Decommissioning asset increases included of drilling was to better define the resource On commencement of production in June, base in advance of submitting field Cairn also recognised a right-of-use leased undertaken during the year.
Remaining exploitation plan to the Senegalese asset for the Kraken FPSO, recorded at a development commitments on Catcher B value equal to the finance lease liability.
Cairn continues to carry the costs of all The Kraken FPSO finance lease liability was U 8{k exploration and appraisal wells drilled to date.
been classified as an operating lease, equal to the present value of the minimum consequently no asset or finance liability lease commitments due at the date of has been recognised.
The FPSO has a activities with the balance incurred on related commencement of the lease.
Subsequent to shorter lease term than that of the Kraken e initial recognition, the terms of the lease were FPSO and it is considered unlikely that the adjusted under an Interim Production Period joint operation will purchase the FPSO The remaining spend included work on agreement to allow the lessor to address pre-development activities.
operational issues with the vessel.
During this F8 I period, the lease rate was wholly dependent will be required to reflect minimum lease UK & Norway on the performance of the FPSO with no commitments on the Catcher FPSO as a U minimum amount payable.
Consequently, lease liability with a corresponding right-of- & Norway region as the portfolio was the lease asset and liability were reduced use asset being recognised at that time.
Had re-shaped ahead of an exciting drilling F8 x minimum lease commitment.
All lease costs Cairn would have recognised a right-of-use well, the Tethys well in the Norwegian North that were incurred in the period relating to Sea, commenced operations in December U 8{k commencement of the lease.
e charged against profit as variable lease costs.
Encouraging results from the testing of x The closing carrying value of the right-of-use development wells drilled on Catcher indicate performance levels in advance of Significant progress has also been made pre-drill expectations, leading to an increase on the planned development of the Nova and accounting for depletion and exchange { discovery, with development plan submission differences.
This reserves increase and improved production profile is incorporated c % Remaining capital commitments on into the fair value models, increasing U c U the recoverable value of the asset in the development asset and the lease liability impairment test.
F International tests performed on the Kraken asset The results of the impairment test conducted In Ireland, Cairn completed the farm-in to identified no impairment at the year end.
at the year-end indicate that the impairment 8 Xx xe reversed in full and this credit has been the Druid and Drombeg prospects.
The well recorded in the profit for the year.
capitalised were subsequently written off.
In Mexico, the Group was awarded two Results for the Year Gross Profit U c Other Total % % US$m in Ireland and the two new blocks in Mexico.
Revenue Costs relating to the Boujdour Maritime Oil sales licence offshore Western Sahara and Release of deferred revenue a Royalty interest been written off following relinquishment of those licences.
Cost of sales Production and lease costs Inventory and underlift adjustments Depletion and amortisation Gross profit loss 37 Strategic Report Financial Review continued Available-for-Sale Financial Assets k its investments fairly and equitably.
Arbitral and Dividends Receivable was declared, bringing total amounts of proceedings are well progressed and Cairn The merger of Cairn India Limited CIL with has a high level of confidence in its case.
Subsequent to the merger, In addition to resolution of the retrospective the IITD seized the dividend income due to tax dispute, Cairns request for relief to the received ordinary shares and preference Cairn in partial settlement of the tax demand arbitration panel is seeking damages equal shares in VL in exchange for the Groups issued in relation to the Indian tax dispute.
to the value of Groups residual shareholding FX e Cairn has therefore fully provided against the FX X amounts receivable.
% FF% BX UK North Sea revenue & gross profit shares.
Cairn remains unable to access default in respect of tax demanded on the % the value of this investment pending the from its Kraken and Catcher North Sea fields.
outcome of its ongoing Indian tax dispute.
continued to pursue enforcement against First oil from Kraken was delivered in June BX F The merger of CIL with VL has resulted enforcement actions have included to the end of the year.
Catcher first oil was BX X % the Income Statement.
This comprises an for the year were not significant.
Daily in market value of the Groups holding in CIL BX have steadily increased as production wells and VL immediately before and after the are brought on line and processing facilities merger, offset by the gain on derecognition BX are commissioned.
of the CIL shares which led to a recycling of the surplus on valuation of the CIL shares U In the first half of the year, Cairn entered into a India Bilateral Investment Treaty for losses streaming agreement with FlowStream Thruer resulting from the attachment of its shares X 8 in VL and failure to treat the Company and 8 U production.
FlowStreams share of production reduces in steps as the company achieves specified rates of return.
The income from the stream agreement is treated as deferred revenue in the financial statements which Results for the Year is released to the profit or loss for the year Profit loss for the year in line with production volumes received 8 % Year ended Year ended % % deferred revenue was released.
US$m Crude sales from Kraken in the year totalled Gross Profit of crude lifted by Cairn, with sales volumes Pre-award costs 8 entitlement.
Administrative expenses and other income costs Related tax credit Cost of sales for the period include operating costs of crude produced plus marketing Operational and administrative expenses and transportation costs of crude sold.
Also included are inventory and underlift Net finance costs, excl.
Differences between produced volumes and lifted volumes in the period are Net gain on derecognition of financial asset recorded in the financial statements either Dividends receivable as inventory, where crude is held at the FPSO Provision against dividends receivable at the year end, or as underlift where JV Related tax charge partners have lifted more crude than their Cairn India Vedanta investment and dividends working interest entitlement.
Inventory and Reversal of impairment impairment of oil and gas assets based on the year end closing Brent price.
Asset related tax credit Oil and gas asset impairment and tax credits Profit loss for the year {X e  e 38 Lease charges through cost of sales of Unsuccessful exploration costs % With the one unsuccessful exploration well recognised in respect of India and Norway.
under the Kraken and Catcher FPSO charter drilled in the year and a further write-down e F agreements.
The Kraken lease is classified of inventory, unsuccessful exploration costs as a finance lease however, as minimum F for sale financial asset.
The recovery in the lease commitments were reduced to nil, component of the Groups charge.
Other Vedanta Limited share price during the year all payments were charged against profit.
has reversed an unrecognised deferred tax Once the Interim Production Period of licences in Western Sahara and Malta, asset into a deferred tax liability.
concludes, lease payments will be allocated F to the lease liability for amounts equal to U c e c the minimum commitment with additional number of licences were relinquished.
represents the temporary differences charges payable dependent on uptime of recognised in respect of costs incurred on the vessel charged to production costs as Administrative costs and other income assets held on the Balance Sheet in respect variable lease payments.
The Catcher FPSO The Groups administrative charges ran at a of which a full tax refund has been claimed.
lease is classified as an operating lease level consistent with prior years with a charge This liability is partially offset by a deferred tax therefore all lease costs are charged directly c to cost of sales.
available at the year-end resulting in a net UF Depletion and amortisation charges in the Bilateral Investment Treaty.
Taxation Taxable profit from the Groups income Other revenue and gross profit generated on production in the year was % offset by available tax losses and as such no royalty income relating to fields in Mongolia.
corporation tax was payable in the year.
Cairns right to this royalty interest was retained under the terms of a historic sale : of assets previously held by the Group.
in the year, comprising a Norwegian current The current operators of the licences had disputed Cairns right to royalty, however c U following international arbitration proceedings and India.
royalty was established and the calculation The Norwegian current tax credit reflects the of royalty due agreed.
Revenue recorded in tax refunds receivable in respect of qualifying the year represents royalty due to Cairn, from expenditure in the year.
commencement of production from the The net deferred tax charge includes Indian continue to receive royalty payments going forward though annual income is not on financial assets and the accounting expected to be significant.
treatment of the merger of CIL and VL.
c Pre-award costs arise on capitalised exploration expenditure % where current tax refunds have been e U U c k two new licences offshore Mexico and assets settled through the carry from one offshore Ireland.
The work in advance of obtaining these new e % U licences is reflected in the increased costs in losses are recognised as deferred tax assets U c U opportunities in countries where the Group held no interests at the year end.
represented by an unrecognised deferred 39
