Group Finance Directors review Maximising shareholder value The Group result was underpinned by an Across all Segments and revenue lines, growth improving performance in France, another has been driven by the performance of key strong result in Germany and was supported existing customer accounts, rather than the by recovering UK revenues.
Growth in 2017, particularly in Germany and France, was driven The Supply Chain performance in Germany by a small group of well-performing accounts.
was the story in 2017 which exceeded our 1 expectations and has grown significantly from A reconciliation between key adjusted and what was a very good year in 2016.
This was statutory measures is provided on page 49 of well supported by similar strong Supply Chain this Group Finance Directors review.
Further growth in both the UK and France as customers details are provided in note 4 to the invest in new technology, in particular in Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment the Security, Networking and Digitalisation.
For the avoidance of duplication, Professional Services growth in the UK led the further information on the Groups financial Group, based on several key contracts.
Demand performance can be found on pages 36 to 47 for our Professional Services resources in of this Strategic Report.
Germany has outstripped our capacity to service new customers and assist with difficult Profit before tax Managed Services business take-ons.
Managed The Groups statutory profit before tax Services growth was pleasing overall, although increased by 28.2 per cent to 111.7 million flat in the UK and with some difficult contracts 2016: 87.1 million.
in Germany reducing the expected margin.
1 Adjusted profit before tax increased by 22.9 per cent to 106.2 million 2016: 86.4 million 2 and by 18.4 per cent in constant currency.
The difference between statutory profit before 1 tax and adjusted profit before tax primarily relates to the Groups reported net gain of 5.7 million 2016: 1.4 million from exceptional items.
Further information on these can be found on page 51.
Profit for the year The statutory profit for the year increased by 27.4 per cent to 81.3 million 2016: 63.8 1 million.
The adjusted profit for the year increased by 21.0 per cent to 79.6 million 2016: 65.8 million and by 16.0 per cent 2 in constant currency.
The comparative 2016 finance income was impacted by a number of one-off items, including historical interest charges of 0.3 million relating to routine tax audits completed in Computacenter Germany.
1 On an adjusted basis, prior to interest on customer-specific financing CSF, net finance income was 0.7 million in 2017 2016: income of 0.3 million.
Taxation 1 1 The adjusted tax charge on ordinary activities was 26.6 million 2016: 20.6 million, on an adjusted profit before tax of 106.2 million 2016: 86.4 1 million.
The effective tax rate ETR was therefore 25.0 per cent 2016: 23.8 per cent on an adjusted basis.
The 2017 ETR was higher than the previous year, primarily due to increasing cash tax in Germany as the historical tax losses readily available for use expire.
The ETR is within the range of our 1 expectations, albeit with a change in the geographic split of adjusted profit before tax, with Frances increasing return to profit, and Germanys continued profit growth being the primary variables.
The statutory tax charge was 30.4 million 2016: 23.3 million on statutory profit before tax of 111.7 million 2016: 87.1 million.
This represents a statutory tax rate of 27.2 per cent 2016: 26.8 per cent.
The exceptional gain on the sale of the former RDC building in Braintree recorded in the statutory profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2017 is not subject to taxation and is the major reason for the movement in the statutory tax rate being 1 smaller than the movement in the adjusted tax rate.
1 The Groups adjusted tax rate has benefited from losses utilised on earnings in Germany and also from the reduced corporation tax rate in the UK.
As the readily available German tax losses are utilised, the deferred tax asset, previously recognised as an exceptional tax item, is no longer replenishing.
The 1 utilisation of the asset has impacted the statutory tax rate but is considered to be outside of our adjusted tax measure.
In 2017, this impact increased the statutory tax rate by 3.1 per cent.
1 From 2018 onwards, we expect an increasing adjusted tax rate, as the German cash tax rate is expected to increase when we utilise the last of the 1 readily available losses in 2018, with a direct effect on the Group adjusted ETR.
At 2017 levels of profitability, the increase in German cash tax would raise 1 1 the Group adjusted ETR from 25.0 per cent in 2017 to 25.9 per cent in 2018, without regard to other factors that could influence the Groups adjusted ETR.
The Group Tax Policy was updated during the year and approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
We make every effort to pay all the tax attributable to profits earned in each jurisdiction that we operate in.
We do not artificially inflate or reduce profits in one jurisdiction to provide a beneficial tax result in another and maintain approved transfer pricing policies and programmes, to meet local compliance requirements, particularly given the implementation of the Group Operating Model.
Virtually all of the statutory tax charge in 2017 was incurred in either the UK or German tax jurisdictions.
Computacenter will recognise provisions and accruals in respect of tax where there is a degree of estimation and uncertainty, including where it relates to transfer pricing, such that a balance cannot fully be determined until accepted by the relevant tax authorities.
There are no material tax risks across the Group.
For 2017, the revised Group Transfer Pricing policy, implemented in 2016, resulted in a royalty payment charged by Computacenter UK to Computacenter Germany equivalent to one per cent of revenue or 17.4 million 2016: 14.2 million.
This royalty charge was driven by our tax advisors interpretation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD base erosion and profit shifting requirements.
As it is purely tax compliance driven, it is recorded outside the Segmental results found in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Information.
1 The table below reconciles the statutory tax charge to the adjusted tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2017.
2017 2016 000 000 Statutory tax charge 30,381 23,300 Adjustments to exclude: Utilisation of German deferred tax assets 3,457 2,580 Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 31 72 Tax on exceptional items 351 192 1 Adjusted tax charge 26,604 20,600 Statutory ETR 27.2% 26.8% 1 Adjusted ETR 25.0% 23.8% Exceptional and other adjusting items The net gain from exceptional and other adjusting items in the year was 5.5 million 2016: 1.4 million.
The disposal of an investment property in Braintree, Essex, was completed on 26 May 2017 for 14.5 million.
This property was associated with a former subsidiary of the Group, R. D. Trading Limited, which was itself sold in February 2015.
Due to the size and non-operational nature of the transaction, the 4.3 million gain on disposal, net of disposal costs, has been classified as exceptional.
The remaining provisions for the last two onerous contracts in Germany were released, for an exceptional gain of 1.4 million.
These provisions were originally booked in 2013 and the contracts have now returned to profitability, so the provisions are no longer required.
As these provisions were booked as exceptional items, this release has also been classified as such.
51 Group Finance Directors review continued Earnings per share 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased from 54.0 pence in 2016 to 65.1 pence in 2017, due to the increased earnings within the business and despite a slightly higher diluted weighted average number of shares.
The statutory diluted earnings per share increased from 52.3 pence in 2016 to 66.5 pence in 2017.
2017 2016 Basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held no.
000 120,766 120,540 Effect of dilution: Share options 1,471 1,344 Diluted weighted average number of shares 122,237 121,884 Statutory profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 000 81,314 63,773 Basic earnings per share pence 67.3 52.9 Diluted earnings per share pence 66.5 52.3 1 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 000 79,625 65,829 1 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 65.9 54.6 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 65.1 54.0 Dividends 3 The Group remains highly cash generative and net funds continue to build on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Computacenters approach to capital management is to ensure that the Group has a robust capital base and maintains a strong credit rating, whilst aiming to maximise shareholder value.
If further funds are not required to be available for investment within the business, either for fixed assets or working capital support, and the distributable reserves are available in the Parent Company, we will aim to return the additional cash to investors through one-off returns of value as we did in February 2018.
Dividends are paid from the standalone Balance Sheet of the Parent Company, and as at 31 December 2017, the distributable reserves were approximately 298.9 million 2016: 262.5 million.
The Board is pleased to propose a final dividend of 18.7 pence per share.
The interim dividend paid on 13 October 2017 was 7.4 pence per share.
Together with the final dividend, this brings the total ordinary dividend for 2017 to 26.1 pence per share, representing a 17.6 per cent increase on the 2016 total dividend per share of 22.2 pence.
The Board has consistently applied the Companys dividend policy, which states that the total dividend paid will result 1 in a dividend cover of 2 to 2.5 times based on adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at our Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2018, the proposed dividend will be paid on Friday 29 June 2018.
The dividend record date is set as Friday 1 June 2018 and the shares will be marked ex-dividend on 31 May 2018.
Capital management Details of the Groups capital management policies are included in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Net funds 3 Net funds increased from 144.5 million at the end of 2016 to 191.2 million as at 31 December 2017.
The year-end cash position was again very strong.
Working capital trends continue to affect cash volatility at the year end with higher fourth quarter product sales, longer credit terms offered to certain new product-based customers and an adverse revenue mix changing towards existing customers with longer credit terms.
The Group had no material borrowings except a specific facility of 10.7 million, drawn down in the second half of the year, for the build and purchase of our new German headquarters and logistics facility in Kerpen.
This will increase to circa 32 million by the end of 2018.
The Group saw an increase in its overall cash generation from operations in 2017, with net cash flow from operating activities of 106.1 million 2016: 68.2 million.
Capital expenditure in the year was 40.0 million 2016: 22.6 million, primarily on the investment in our German headquarters, additional SAP Licence spend and other investments in IT equipment and software tools, to enable us to deliver improved service to our customers.
3 As reported in the Companys 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, the Groups net funds continue to benefit from extended credit terms with a major 3 supplier and have done so for approximately nine years.
The estimated benefit of these extended terms to the Groups net funds was 54.9 million at the year end 2016: 69.1 million.
The amount of benefit at any one time fluctuates as a direct result of the volume of business with that vendor.
These extended terms will be returning closer to standard terms during the first half of 2018, in line with all material partners of that significant vendor, 3 resulting in a subsequent reduction in the Groups net funds of circa 27.5 million depending on volume with that vendor.
The Group will continue to appropriately manage its cash and working capital positions using standard mechanisms to ensure that cash levels remain within expectations throughout 2018 and beyond.
52 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 In certain circumstances, the Group enters strategy is to manage these risks in order to We aim to minimise this exposure by invoicing into customer contracts that are financed by minimise their impact on the Groups financial the customer in the same currency in which the leases or loans.
The leases are secured only results.
The policies for managing each of costs are incurred.
For certain contracts, the on the assets that they finance.
Whilst the these risks are set out below.
Further Groups committed contract costs are not outstanding balance of CSF is included within disclosures in line with the requirements denominated in the same currency as its sales.
3 net funds for statutory reporting purposes, of IFRS 7 are included in the Consolidated In such circumstances, for example where this balance is offset by contracted future Financial Statements.
contract costs are denominated in South receipts from customers.
Computacenter African rand, we eliminate currency exposure retains the credit risk on these customers Interest rate risk for a foreseeable period on these future cash and ensures that credit risk is only taken The Group finances its operations through a flows, through forward currency contracts.
on customers with a strong credit rating.
mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings and finance leases and loans for certain In 2017, the Group recognised a gain of CSF increased in the year from 3.9 million to customer contracts.
The Groups bank 0.2 million 2016: 5.3 million through other 4.7 million.
CSF remains low compared to borrowings, other facilities and deposits are comprehensive income in relation to the historical levels, due to reduced customer at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative changes in fair value of related forward demand in light of the current credit contracts have been entered into.
currency contracts, where the cash flow environment.
Currently we apply a higher cost of hedges relating to firm commitments were finance to these transactions than customers Liquidity risk assessed to be highly effective.
marginal cost of finance, however we intend to The Groups policy is to ensure that it has increase this business at an appropriate rate sufficient funding and facilities in place to The Group reports its results in pounds sterling.
over time to take advantage of emerging meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing The continued weakness in the value of sterling 3 opportunities in equipment leasing.
The Groups positive net funds against most currencies during 2017, in position was maintained throughout 2017, and particular the euro, has resulted in significant There were no interest-bearing trade payables at the year end was 195.9 million excluding growth of our revenues and profitability as a at 31 December 2017.
At 31 December 2016, the CSF, and 191.2 million including CSF.
Due to result of the conversion of our foreign earnings.
Group had interest-bearing trade payables of strong cash generation over the past three The impact of restating 2016 at 2017 exchange 13.3 million, where we took advantage of years, the Group can currently finance its rates would be an increase of approximately supplier extended payment-term credit facilities requirements from its cash balance, and it 142.2 million in 2016 revenue and an increase 1 in the UK.
This short-term position provided operates an informal cash pooling arrangement of approximately 3.2 million in 2016 adjusted additional operational payment flexibility and for the majority of Group entities.
was closed out shortly after the balance sheet we extended an existing specific committed date.
The interest-bearing extended-term facility of 40.0 million for a three-year term Credit risk payable balances were classified within trade through to February 2018.
In January 2018, The Group principally manages credit risk 3 payables, and was therefore net funds we extended the facility to 60.0 million for through customer credit limits.
The credit enhancing, at 31 December 2016. a further three years.
The Group has never limit is set for each customer based on its had to draw on this committed facility.
creditworthiness, assessed by using credit 3 The Groups net funds position has no current rating agencies, and the anticipated levels of asset investments 2016: 30 million as this The Group has a Board-monitored policy to business activity.
These limits are initially longer-term deposit was closed during the year manage its counterparty risk.
This ensures determined when the customer account is first in anticipation of the Return of Value of 100 that cash is placed on deposit across a range set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
million that we launched in January 2018.
Net of reputable banking institutions.
CSF facilities 3 funds excluding CSF increased from 148.4 are committed.
There are no significant concentrations of million to 195.9 million by the end of the year.
credit risk within the Group.
The Groups Foreign currency risk major customer, disclosed in note 4 to the Financial instruments The Group operates primarily in the United Consolidated Financial Statements, consists The Groups financial instruments comprise Kingdom, Germany and France, with smaller of entities under the control of the UK borrowings, cash and liquid resources, and operations in Belgium, China, Hungary, India, Government.
The maximum credit risk various items that arise directly from its Malaysia, Mexico, South Africa, Spain, exposure relating to financial assets is operations.
Switzerland and the United States of America.
represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
The Group enters into hedging transactions, The Group uses an informal cash pooling principally forward exchange contracts or facility to ensure that its operations outside Return of Value Tender Offer currency swaps to manage currency risks the UK are adequately funded, where principal On 25 August 2017, Computacenter announced arising from the Groups operations and its receipts and payments are denominated in its interim results for the six-month period sources of finance.
As the Group continues to euros.
For those countries within the Eurozone, ended 30 June 2017, and that it intended to expand its global reach and benefit from lower the level of non-euro denominated sales is make a one-off return of value to shareholders cost operations in geographies such as South small and, if material, the Groups policy is to of approximately 100 million the Return of Africa, it has entered into forward exchange eliminate currency exposure through forward Value.
The Company subsequently announced contracts to help manage cost increases due currency contracts.
For the UK, the majority of on 14 November 2017 that the Return of Value to currency movements.
The Groups policy sales and purchases are denominated in sterling would be undertaken by way of a Tender Offer is not to undertake speculative trading in and any material trading exposures are for ordinary shares to be launched after the financial instruments.
The main risks arising eliminated through forward currency contracts.
release of its full-year trading update in from the Groups financial instruments are January 2018, which was released on interest rate, liquidity and foreign currency The Group has been increasingly successful 22 January 2018.
The overall financial instruments in winning international Services contracts, Company published further details of the where Services are provided in multiple timing and structure of the Return of Value by countries.
way of a shareholder circular the Circular.
53 Group Finance Directors review continued Background As the Strike Price was determined to be the There remains considerable uncertainty The cash generative nature of Minimum Price, only tenders of ordinary shares around the exact nature and timing of the UKs Computacenters business enables the at 1170 pence or as Strike Price Tenders were exit from the EU, which makes it difficult to Company to have a consistent dividend policy accepted.
Shareholders who tendered more develop specific plans for the various potential and to periodically return additional value to than approximately 7.06 per cent of their outcomes.
However, we have established a shareholders.
As stated in the Companys holding, being their Guaranteed Entitlement, committee to consider the key risks and interim results for the six-month period ended either at 1170 pence or as a Strike Price Tender, changes that may be required.
It is likely that 30 June 2017, the Company had a net cash were scaled down by approximately 95.58 per there will be additional investment required in balance in excess of its current needs.
While cent of the number of excess ordinary shares IT systems to manage the transition.
Whilst this the Company intends to continue to maintain so tendered.
will be a cost to Computacenter, it will also be a robust and prudent balance sheet, the an opportunity, as our customers, in some Directors believed that it was appropriate to Proceeds payable to the Companys cases, may need to increase investment in undertake a return of cash to shareholders.
shareholders for the certificated ordinary a similar manner.
shares purchased under the Tender Offer were Computacenter will continue to monitor its despatched by 19 February 2018 in the form of This committee is led by the Group Finance Consolidated Balance Sheet with the aim of a cheque and CREST account holders had their Director and includes senior staff from the key maintaining an efficient capital structure, as it CREST accounts credited on 14 February 2018. areas that may be affected including: has done historically.
Computacenter returned Tax and treasury: 74.4 million which equated to approximately As set out in the Circular, the 8,546,861 ordinary HR, employment and related matters: 39.0 pence per ordinary share, 75 million shares were purchased by Credit Suisse Legal, including intellectual property and which equated to approximately 48.7 pence pursuant to the Tender Offer and the Company data protection: per ordinary share and 100 million which IT, including IT systems, location of IT purchased such ordinary shares from Credit equated to approximately 71.9 pence per Suisse at the Strike Price on 14 February 2018. infrastructure and location of data: ordinary share to shareholders in 2006, 2013 Commercial Operations, Vendor relations The Company holds the ordinary shares and 2015 respectively, on each occasion by way purchased pursuant to the Tender Offer in and the potential impact of Waste Electrical of a one-off cash return via a B share structure.
and Electronic Equipment WEEE : and treasury.
Immediately following the purchase, the Companys issued share capital consisted Other financial matters and residual issues.
5 Benefits of the Tender Offer 9 pence of 122,687,970 ordinary shares of 7 The Board decided to proceed with the Return each, each carrying one voting right, of which The committee met and reviewed papers of Value in the manner described in the Circular the Company held 8,546,861 ordinary shares submitted by the subject matter experts and because, like the previous B share schemes in treasury.
has produced an action list, to identify ways implemented by the Company, the Tender Offer to minimise the impact of this change.
The allows all shareholders to participate on a pro As at 14 February 2018, the total number of minutes of the meetings and the subjectrata basis if they wish, but it also provides voting rights in the Company which may be matter papers are reviewed at the Group Risk additional flexibility to shareholders as used by shareholders as the denominator for Committee and will be summarised for review described below.
the calculations by which they can determine if at the Audit Committee.
they are required to notify their interest in, or a The benefits of the Tender Offer to change to their interest in the Company, under Going Concern shareholders as a whole were that: the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, is Computacenters business activities, business it gave those shareholders who wished to 114,141,109.
The percentage of voting rights model, its strategic goals and its performance reduce their holding of ordinary shares an attributable to those shares it holds in treasury are set out within this Strategic Report on opportunity to do so, depending on the price following the share buy-back is 6.97 per cent.
The financial position of the at which they tendered ordinary shares and Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and the subsequent scaling back of their tender: Capitalised terms used in this section have borrowing facilities are set out within this and the same meaning as ascribed to them in Group Finance Directors review on pages 52 it enabled those shareholders who did not the Circular.
In addition, notes 26 and 27 to the wish to realise their investment in ordinary Consolidated Financial Statements include shares at that time to maintain their current Planning for the United Kingdom exiting the Computacenters objectives, policies and investment in the Company.
European Union processes for managing its capital, its financial Computacenters target clients are large risk management objectives, details of its Results of the Tender Offer corporate customers and large government financial instruments and its exposures to On 13 February 2018, the Company announced departments.
We operate in three principal credit and liquidity risk.
the results of the Tender Offer set out in the geographies, the UK, Germany and France.
Circular which closed on 9 February 2018.
This allows us to manage EU requirements The Directors have, after due consideration, from our EU locations and we have a long a reasonable expectation that the Group has A total of 44,089,779 ordinary shares were history of trading with the subsidiaries of large adequate resources to continue in operational validly tendered and, in accordance with the global Western European headquartered existence for a period of 12 months from the terms and conditions of the Tender Offer as organisations, in many diverse locations date of approval of the Consolidated Financial set out in the Circular, the Strike Price was across the world.
Therefore, the concept of Statements as set out on pages 104 to 157 of determined to be 1170 pence.
Accordingly, exporting to and importing from multiple this Annual Report and Accounts.
Thus, they 8,546,861 ordinary shares were purchased at countries with the related systems continue to adopt the going concern basis of a price per Ordinary Share of 1170 pence, for a requirements is already functioning across accounting in preparing the Consolidated total cost of 99,998,273.70.
approximately 6.97 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2017.
54 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Viability Statement On a rolling annual basis, the Board considers Fair, balanced and understandable In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the a three-year business plan consisting of the The UK Corporate Governance Code requires Code, the Directors have assessed the Groups detailed bottom-up financial target for the the Board to consider whether the Annual prospects over a longer period than the following year 2018, and forecast information Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, 12 months required by the Going Concern for two further years 2019 and 2020, which is balanced and understandable and provide the statement.
driven by top-down assumptions overlaid on information necessary for shareholders to the detailed target year.
Key assumptions used assess the Groups position and performance, Viability timeframe in formulating the forecast information include business model and strategy.
The Directors have assessed the Groups organic revenue growth, margin improvement viability over a period of three years from and cost control, continued strategic Management undertakes a formal process 31 December 2017.
This period was selected investments through the Consolidated Income through which it can provide comfort to the as an appropriate timeframe for the Statement, and forecast Group effective tax Board in making this statement.
following reasons: rates, with no changes to dividend policy or The Groups rolling strategic review, as capital structure beyond what is known at the This Strategic Report was approved by the considered by the Board, covers a time of the forecast.
Board on 13 March 2018 and signed on its three-year period: behalf by: The period is aligned to the length of the The three-year plan was last considered and Groups Managed Services contracts, which approved by the Board on 14 December 2017, MJ Norris are typically three to five years long: with amendments and enhancements Chief Executive Officer The short lifecycle and constantly evolving considered and approved by the Board on nature of the technology industry lends 8 February 2018.
FA Conophy itself to a period not materially longer than Group Finance Director three years: and Impact of risks and assessment of viability The macroeconomic and political The three-year business plan is subject to environment following the Referendum sensitivity analysis which involves flexing a on leaving the European Union introduces number of the main assumptions underlying greater uncertainty into a forecasting the forecast.
The forecast cash flows from the period longer than three years.
three-year plan are aggregated with the current position, to provide a total three-year cash Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe position against which the impact of potential the Group will not be viable over a longer period risks and uncertainties can be assessed.
In the than three years, we believe that a three-year absence of significant external debt, the analysis period presents shareholders with a also considers access to available committed reasonable degree of confidence, while and uncommitted finance facilities, ability to providing a longer-term perspective.
raise new finance in most foreseeable market conditions and the ability to restrict dividend With regard to the principal risks set out on payments as an instrument of last resort.
pages 30 to 35, the Directors remain assured that the business model will be valid beyond the The potential impact of the principal risks period of this Viability Statement.
There will and uncertainties, as set out on pages 30 to 35, continue to be demand for both our Professional is then applied to the sensitised three-year and Managed Services businesses, and it is up business plan.
This assessment includes only to Management to ensure that the Group those risks and uncertainties that, individually remains able to meet that demand at an or in plausible combination, would threaten the appropriate cost to our customers.
The Groups Groups business model, future performance, value-added product reselling business only solvency or liquidity over the assessment appears vulnerable to disintermediation at the period and which are considered to be severe, low end of the product range, as the Group but reasonable scenarios.
It also takes into continues to provide a valuable service to account an assessment of how the risks are customers, as described on pages 12 to 13. managed and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
The combined effect of Prospects of the Group assessment process the potential occurrence of several of the and key assumptions most impactful risks and uncertainties is The assessment of the Groups prospects then compared to the cash position generated derives from the annual strategic planning and throughout the sensitised three-year plan, review process.
This begins with an annual to assess whether the business will be able away day for the Board, where Management to continue in operation.
presents the strategic review for discussion against the Groups current and future Conclusion operating environments.
High-level expectations Based on the period and assessment above, for the following year are set with the Boards the Directors have a reasonable expectation full involvement and are delivered to that the Group will be able to continue in operation Management, who prepare the detailed and meets its liabilities as they fall due over the bottom-up financial target for the following year.
55 56 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Governance Report This section describes how we run Computacenter.
Our job, on your behalf, is to maintain effective governance practices which are fundamental to the Groups ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
Governance Report 58 Chairmans governance overview 60 Board of Directors 62 Corporate Governance Report 62 Leadership 63 Effectiveness 64 Nomination Committee Report 66 Accountability 68 Audit Committee Report 74 Remuneration 74 Directors Remuneration Report 90 Relations with shareholders 91 Directors Responsibilities 92 Directors Report More online: investors.
com 57 Chairmans governance overview Dear Shareholder, As a Company listed on the main market of The Board is unanimous in its view that all I am pleased to present Computacenters the London Stock Exchange, Computacenter three of these factors will be enhanced by Corporate Governance Report for the year is required by the Listing Rules and Disclosure the appointment of Peter Ryan to the ended 31 December 2017.
The Board believes and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Computacenter plc Board.
We were very that effective governance practices are Authority, to review its practices against, and pleased to welcome him onto the Board with fundamental in underpinning the Groups ability report to its shareholders on its compliance effect from 13 February 2018.
His significant to deliver long-term shareholder value.
The with, the provisions set out in the Code.
The operational expertise in large enterprises and Board therefore supports and is committed to Board confirms that the Company has complied deep knowledge of the Companys sector, and the principles of corporate governance set out with each of the provisions of the Code the challenges therein, complements the skills in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the throughout the year, and anticipates remaining of our other Board members.
Code, which has applied from 1 January 2017. compliant for the 2018 reporting period.
The Code is published by the Financial Peter Ryan Reporting Council and can be found at I would ask shareholders to note that, following Non-Executive Director www.
the appointment of Peter Ryan to the Board as an additional independent Non-Executive This Corporate Governance Report outlines and Director on 13 February 2018, and the expected explains the Groups governance policies and departure of Philip Yea on 24 April 2018, practices, and sets out how we applied the membership of the Computacenter plc Board Code during the year.
It aims to assist our will remain, throughout 2018, compliant with shareholders in understanding the Groups provision B1.2 of the Code, which requires at approach to corporate governance.
least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Peter 1961 has had a successful 37-year Board composition international career in technology It is critical that the Board has the right encompassing all dimensions of the industry composition, so it can provide the best possible including software, services, systems leadership for the Group and discharge its integration, outsourcing and infrastructure.
This includes having the Over the last 10 years, Peter has held roles such right balance of skills and experience, ensuring as Chief Sales Officer with Hewlett Packard that all of the Directors have a good working Enterprise, Chief Client Officer at Logica plc knowledge of the Groups business, and that and Executive Vice President, Global Sales the Board retains its independence and and Services with Sun Microsystems Inc. After objectivity.
starting his career at the Home Office, Peter undertook various senior management roles with Aspect Development Inc, Parametric Technology Ltd, IBM UK Ltd and ICL plc.
In accordance with the Companys procedure for new Directors, Peter has begun a full induction which is tailored to his knowledge and previous experience.
This included meetings with the Chairmen of the Board and its Committees, the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director FD.
Given Peters appointment to the Remuneration Committee, he was provided with a detailed briefing of Executive remuneration by the Groups Human Resources Director.
Further, with his appointment to the Audit Committee, he also received presentations from a number of the Groups Financial Senior Management team.
Peter will also join the Nomination Committee.
Board Committees Audit Committee Greg Lock Nomination Board Chairman Committee Remuneration Committee 58 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategy Governance framework The Board is collectively responsible for leading As allowed by the Companys Articles of the Group and promoting its success, within Association, the Board delegates a number a framework of appropriate controls, which of its responsibilities to Committees, so it can enable risk to be assessed and effectively carry out its functions effectively.
A diagram The Board recognises the managed.
It is also responsible for implementing of the Board governance structure is set out benefits that diverse skills, the business model set out on pages 14 to 15, on page 58.
As part of its ongoing review of for ensuring that the Group has the right the Groups governance procedures and experience and points of strategy to drive shareholder value, and for framework, the Board reviewed the terms providing appropriate support and challenge of reference for each of these Committees.
view can bring to an to the Group Executive Management team.
The A number of the Groups policies were also organisation, and how it Board continues to discuss the development reviewed and amended during the year.
The of the Groups strategy at every Board meeting, detail and format of information provided to may assist the Boards with an additional day-long session each year, the Board by Management continues to develop.
decision making and hence dedicated to receiving strategy-related presentations from senior Management.
To help develop and update the Directors Board effectiveness knowledge of the Groups operations, the Board An internal evaluation of the Board and its regularly visits our offices overseas.
During the Committees has taken place during the year.
year, the Board held a meeting at the Groups Further details of the process and the findings office in Kerpen, Germany, where it received presentations from the German Managing can be found on page 63.
After carefully considering its findings, I am satisfied that the Director and senior members of his team.
This focused on the sustainability of the excellent Board continues to function effectively and that its current constitution and range of skills Supply Chain performance, the prospects for margin improvements within the Services are appropriate for protecting the long-term interests of the Group and the Companys business, in light of several underperforming Managed Services contracts, and the shareholders.
construction of a new warehouse and headquarters office facility to replace I also remain satisfied that the Boards members, and in particular the Non-Executive existing premises.
Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their current Board and Committee roles.
I will Diversity The Board recognises the benefits that continue to assess these judgements to ensure they remain the case.
diverse skills, experience and points of view can bring to an organisation, and how it may In accordance with the Code, with the assist the Boards decision making and hence its effectiveness.
Whilst the Board monitors exception of Philip Yea who will not be standing for re-election, all of the Directors will stand for the possibility of legislation in this area, appointments to the Board will continue to be election or re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
As at 31 December 2017, the Board had two female Non-Executive Succession planning Directors, Regine Stachelhaus and Ros Rivaz, representing 22.2 per cent of the total Board The Board continues to focus at length on succession planning, which remains membership.
This is in line with the representation as at 31 December 2016. particularly important given the tenure of the current Executive Directors.
Prior to the date of Shareholder engagement this report, the Board reviewed the succession plans for both the Executive and Non-Executive The Board remains committed to communicating with our shareholders and, Directors.
It also received a presentation from the Group Human Resources Director on how where appropriate, submitting its views for consultation and feedback.
Further detail the Group manages and develops talent immediately below Board level, in the long-term regarding engagement with our shareholders can be found on page 90. interests of the Group.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman 13 March 2018 59
