Sustainability Report continued Communities UBM's community engagement Our Amsterdam office held its first Various parts of the US were affected programme helps us to support iVolunteer day for the whole office, by hurricanes and wildfires in 2017, communities local to our offices with 89 employees 69% of the and UBM staff acted quickly to provide and those linked to our events.
office spending the day working with volunteering support and donations UBM provides employees with up to children, elderly refugees and those which UBM matched.
32 hours per year to volunteer with with disabilities.
Employees from the UBM Santa Monica charities and non-profits, as well as 14 employees from the London office office volunteered their time to make volunteer grants and matched funding.
volunteered to cook Christmas dinner and donate blankets for the victims of Those who volunteer for a charity on for 100 elderly people in the local hurricanes Harvey and Irma, completing a regular basis are eligible to receive a Bankside area.
43 baby blankets in just over six hours.
volunteer grant of 750 for their charity.
In India, the partnership with the charity Give as you gain UBM matches donations for fundraising Feeding India was developed and the This year is the first time our internal activities up to 500 per employee process of donating food from our collaboration tool the Hub was per year.
During 2017 UBM matched events in Mumbai was set up by UBMs linked to UBM charity donations.
funding was also applied to disaster Pramod Dhavan, an Assistant Manager Employees were able to donate their relief donations.
in Mumbai, after his inspirational trip to points to one of three selected charities, Volunteering One Young World.
See case study in which are also Event Charity partners opening spreads.
In 2017 19% of employees volunteered Orbis a global charity fighting 2016: 14%, spending over 3,000 hours avoidable blindness: e-NABLE who Disaster relief supporting our communities.
create 3D printed prosthetic hands and UBM owns the largest construction show arms: and IMC, International Medical The following are examples of the many in Latin America, which is held in Mexico Corps, who provide disaster relief and volunteering activities that our employees City.
It was here that earthquakes struck deliver healthcare around the world.
have been involved in over the last year: in September 2017, just weeks before UBM then turned these points into cash the UBM event in October, resulting in During 2017, UBM supported its up to a total of 25,000 see case study a full evacuation of the Mexico offices.
communities in the Fight against Hunger.
UBM donated 150,000 to the Mexican UBM Americas employees, from across Earthquake relief through the Carlos Slim 15 different offices, volunteered over 350 Foundation, which matched donations hours at foodbanks, soup kitchens and 5-to-1, therefore unlocking 750,000 homes for the elderly.
Communities performance ASIAWATER campaign For the last two years ASIAWATER, UBM's leading 2017 2016 2015 water industry event for Developing Asia, has Fundraising Employee fundraising 72,799 79,108 formed the Responsible Business Alliance to bring UBM matched funding grants 419,366 353,000 together leading charities from across South East Asia with a mission to bring clean, safe drinking Total cash donations to charity 492,165 432,108 249,912 water and sanitation to communities in need.
During 2017, the campaign organised clean water Volunteering % of employees using volunteer days 19% 14% 8% for a village in Vietnam and a village school in Myanmar.
It is estimated that over 1,500 people Volunteering hours 3,289 will receive clean water supply from the UBM 'safe drinking water campaign'.
% of employees using Volunteering volunteer days hours 19% 3,289 2016: 14% UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 26 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Environment We strive to run UBMs business in Energy Waste an environmentally responsible way, Over the past seven years, UBM offices No UK offices send waste to landfill.
reducing our environmental impact globally have achieved consistent energy The London office recycles over 90% wherever and whenever possible.
reductions through efficient energy of waste, and the remaining 10% is sent We are committed to raising awareness monitoring and management, and to an energy from waste facility which of environmental issues with our regular communication.
utilises the waste to power homes.
suppliers, customers and the owners In each new UBM office, energy smart The waste from our events is mainly from of the venues we use, working together meters are installed wherever possible stand materials, carpets and paper.
to measure UBMs energy usage on For all events we encourage the design Carbon emissions a real-time basis, ensuring that any of reusable stands to reduce waste.
UBM were one of the first FTSE 350 anomalies can be identified immediately You can read on the next page, how we companies to set an approved Scienceand rectified.
are collaborating with our customers based target.
The target is to reduce Both the London and San Francisco on this.
Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions by 11.4% per offices have LEED Platinum certification, square metre of event and office space In Hong Kong, the UBM Asia Events which represents the highest level of by 2020 against a baseline set in 2015. reviewed their processes and designs and 'Leadership in Energy and Environmental By the end of 2017 progress was as follows: reduced paper use by 10% 12 tonnes Design', and the London Head in 2017.
They have also moved to using 23% reduction in Scope 1 & 2 carbon office continues to retain ISO14001 soy based vegetable ink, FSC paper, and emissions per square metre of office certification with its environmental photo degradable envelopes to further space against baseline 2015 management system.
reduce the environmental impact of There has been a 1.4% increase in At our events, we are targeting their printing.
our emissions per square metre from energy reductions in various ways.
The carpet for UBM Americas Events events since 2015.
This has been due Food Ingredients Europe, has reduced its is collected and reused for subsequent to high energy usage per square metre environmental impact due to its energy shows up to five times, after which in events acquired and incorporated usage by working with our contractors time it is recycled into plastic products.
into our portfolio in the US in 2016.
In to switch to LED lights for all feature In Las Vegas we are also partnering with order to focus on further reductions in areas and shell scheme stands reducing our venue to ensure sustainable lighting emissions from events in this area, a new each bulbs energy use by around 80%, solutions for the future.
See case Sustainability manager for the Americas and by using renewable energy.
region has now been appointed.
Environment performance A bright future for all of us UBM Fashion has partnered with the Mandalay Mandatory Carbon Emissions reporting tCO e 2017 2016 2015 2 Bay Convention Centre to enhance customer Scope 1 Direct emissions on-site experience and improve the Gas emissions from offices 85 84 144 sustainability of our Events for decades to come.
Together we have made a multi-million Fugitive emissions from offices 2 43 0 dollar investment to upgrade the lighting while Emissions from Company-owned vehicles 104 110 110 reducing our carbon footprint at the Mandalay Scope 2 Indirect emissions Bay Convention Centre, taking effect at UBM's Electricity from offices 2,530 2,949 2,761 MAGIC Event in February 2018.
Scope 3 Other indirect emissions As a result we are replacing more than 1,000 light fixtures with top-of-the-line LED lights, Water use emissions from offices 26 9 2 increasing the luminescence of the interior of the Waste disposal to landfill from offices 12 6 7 hall by nearly 300%, yet using 85% less energy.
Waste energy recovery from offices inc, anaerobic 2 0.2 0.3 Commuter travel emissions 2,201 2,456 2,929 Business travel flights 2,195 1,904 1,923 Business travel train 96 88 83 Business travel taxi 92 91 83 Business travel car hire 67 52 35 Offsite datacentre electricity 159 385 325 Events globally Emissions from recorded electricity, gas, waste, paper and carpet usage 16,420 18,146 14,074 Total gross emissions 23,991 26,323 25,491 Net emissions minus energy from renewable sources 22,946 25,721 25,491 Scope 1 & 2 emissions per square metre of office space 0.0548 0.0649 0.0711 Net event emissions per square metre of event space 0.0040 0.0049 0.0039 1 Please refer to page 89 in the Directors Report for calculation methodology 2 Emissions from recorded electricity, gas, waste, paper and carpet usage UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Sustainability Report continued Customers Our customers include those attending CPhIs in-kind contribution of over Recognition our events as well as exhibiting at 21,000 included a complementary stand At our EMEA events we launched a them.
We develop and improve our at the event, and promotional materials.
Exhibitors enter customer experience through close IMC also received UBM donations of over by submitting information on the collaboration and engagement on 14,000. sustainability credentials of their stand.
We develop Stands are then inspected onsite and At Advanced Manufacturings New York charity partnerships, which enable our exhibitors and contractors interviewed.
event in June 2017, UBM partnered customers to donate and participate in The award is presented at a prestigious with e-NABLE, a group of volunteers a sustainable event experience.
ceremony at the event, and UBM media who produce 3-D printed prosthetic channels utilised to further celebrate Collaboration limbs.
At CPhI, our worldwide workshops on each day of the event, From our recent customer survey pharmaceutical event, the award this year where attendees were invited to build at EMEA Events, 58% of customers was given to a company that designed a prosthetic hands customised for specific stated that event sustainability was reuseable stand to eliminate waste and children.
They were also able to decorate important to them, and 36% wanted ensured that the power to the stand was the storage bag and write to the child more information on how to be more 100% renewable.
During 2017 we launched the Exhibitor guide at Charity partnerships UBMs Child Baby Maternity Expo EMEA and Americas events, which clearly Charity partnerships at our events enable CBME in China, organised a charity states our aims for sustainability at UBM our customers to be part of an industry sale for customers at the event.
'Care and how we can work together with our relevant charitable initiative.
for the Orphans Charity Sale' gained exhibitors to achieve a sustainable events great support among the industry, as 47 CPhI Worldwide, Medtec Europe, and industry.
The guide provides a userexhibitors donated their products, raising Pharmapack events have developed a friendly checklist, with ten important over 18,000 to provide financial support partnership with International Medical points to remember, including sharing and cover medical expenses for orphans Corps IMC.
UBM developed a presence their sustainability credentials at the in Beijing.
This is the third year that CBME for IMC at CPhI Worldwide 2017, event, how to reduce carbon impact, China supported children-related charities helping to raise awareness, deepen and ensuring stands are designed to in China.
existing partnerships and develop new be reused.
relationships with pharmaceuticals and medical equipment suppliers, who are key to their disaster relief work.
Customer performance Blackhat gives back UBM's leading event for information security 2017 2016 professionals.
"engaged with, and supported its Number of applications for ""Sustainable Stand"" award 30 12 customers in a number of ways: Number of charity partners 54 43 Blackhats new diversity-focused partners Total ""in-kind"" donations to charity partners 1,495,273 1,620,253 included Queercon, International Consortium of Minority Cybersecurity Professionals ICMCP, and Women in Security and Privacy WISP."
% of customers for whom event % of customers requesting more Awarded 230 Academic Briefings Scholarships sustainability is important guidance on event sustainability and grants to deserving students and ICMCP members from around the world.
Of those, more than half were granted to underrepresented groups and minorities.
58% 36% For the fourth year, Blackhat donated $50,000 to the Electronic Frontier Foundation to continue supporting their important work in protecting civil liberties within the digital world.
In support of Hack the Hood, Blackhat developed an exclusive BlackHat USA 2017 t-shirt for the show with all proceeds being directly donated to help bring technology and education to low-income communities in the US and rural communities in developing nations.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance Acting with integrity is core to how Fundamental Principles and Rights at areas of health, safety and security and we operate.
Doing Business at UBM Work.
We also endeavour to ensure that are based around compliance with our is our Code of Business Conduct, our supply chain is ethical, particularly global HSS policy and 15 performance underpinning our core values and in relation to human rights and modern standards.
slavery, and during the year we have Risk management is a core aspect of We seek always to conduct business added additional assurance procedures our approach, covering the protection honestly and responsibly and treat at our events.
We are also including of staff generally, our facilities and everyone customers, colleagues, additional compliance clauses into all parties who may attend an event.
business partners, investors and the supplier contracts, making clear the Training programmes are in place to wider community with integrity standards with which we expect third support risk management activities.
Our Modern Slavery Our performance is monitored and Act statement is on our website.
The Code of Business Conduct forms part measured using inspection and auditing of a new employees induction process Anti-bribery and corruption methodologies and regular reports are and also applies to our joint venture All employees receive training on provided to the Executive Committee partners and other third parties with anti-bribery and corruption ABC and the Board using consistent whom we do business.
The various policies and anti-malpractice.
We operate an performance indicators.
that comprise the Code of Business independent confidential reporting Sustainable-10 KPIs Conduct are regularly reviewed and are line Safecall which is an important At the end of 2017 we launched a new accessible via the Hub UBMs intranet.
means by which employees can raise set of Sustainability KPIs for our events.
concerns anonymously, and during Key areas include: The areas of focus include Stakeholder 2017 we appointed anti-bribery and Engagement, Material Use & Waste Human rights corruption representatives across all Management, Carbon Mitigation, parts of our business.
Given the nature of our business and Procurement, Charitable Giving, Health, our global reach, we believe that Health, Safety & Security HSS Safety & Security, and Event data.
the principal human rights issues Implementation of our SafeTrack strategy affecting our business relate to nonDuring 2018 we will be setting the was extended during 2017 to incorporate discrimination and fair employment baseline for these KPIs and will, going physical security.
During the year we practices.
We support the principles of forward, report specific progress in these increased the level of dedicated resources the United Nations Universal Declaration areas towards increased sustainability at to support the implementation of our of Human Rights and the International our events.
regional programmes, which address key Labour Organisations Declaration on Governance performance Living wage employer UBM is an accredited living wage employer.
Those working at UBM's UK offices including HSS audits completed employees, third-party contractors and suppliers, receive the living wage or above.
The living wage is a voluntary pay rate, based on a robust calculation that reflects the real cost of living in 13 the UK and in London.
This ensures that anyone working on UBM UK premises is rewarded for 2016: 8 a hard days work with a fair days pay.
It is significantly higher than the national minimum Employees completing HSS training wage and the UK government's statutory national living wage.
2017 marks the second year that UBM has achieved this accreditation with the Living Wage Foundation.
98% Employees completing ABC refresher training 95% UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Risk management Following a review by the Audit Structure and control Developments in risk Committee earlier in the year, The UBM Regulatory, Legal & Compliance management in 2017 responsibility for Business Continuity function RLC deals with processes During the year UBM continued to Planning BCP was assigned to RLC.
and methods for managing risks across keep under review its risk management A new BCP policy was developed the Company.
It works in partnership policies and procedures in order to and subsequently approved by the with Head Office functions and the ensure that they continued to support Executive Committee.
This sets out divisions to assess business and strategic the Events First strategy and UBM's UBMs strategy and approach to BCP.
risks identification, assessment operations worldwide.
RLC has been working with Divisional and prioritisation.
BCP Coordinators on introducing a The Audit Committee received The UBM Board has responsibility for prioritised but phased approach to divisional risk presentations as well monitoring the risk management systems BCP across UBM.
The largest offices as a risk review of the UK Shared across the Company and for reviewing and data centres have been targeted Services Centre.
The Board reviewed a number of Through a  UBMs risk scenario modelling has targeted risk reports looking at the process, the Board receives risk reports been updated to include testing the principal risks across the business.
from each of the businesses and some resilience of the organisation to a These included a broad-based market functional areas on their principal risks global macro-economic slowdown and and business risks review of China and and the action plans they have in place loss of a major venue used by UBM.
In monitoring, the Board is assisted by the UBM Audit Our Internal Audit planning process Following a review of UBMs principal Committee which reviews and challenges now includes an assessment of how venue contracts in 2016, a new management on risk management the businesses are addressing their process was introduced across the processes and procedures.
The Executive principal risks business to review and challenge areas Committee regularly assesses operational of significant contractual liability faced Risk management process and strategic risks facing the business by the organisation.
On page 31 we illustrate UBMs risk Divisional materiality thresholds and management structure.
UBM employs risk maps were reviewed and confirmed both a top-down and a bottomup approach.
Risk map Principal risks 1: Ma cro-economic slowdown, geopolitical instability or exchange rate fluctuations 2: Acquisition risk 1 2 3: Specific country risk and Emerging Markets exposure 4: Factors and incidents affecting our ability to stage an event 3 5: Changes in our business environment 6: Technological risk: execution, data breach and cyber security 7: Access to capital Attractive market and strong UBM 4 8: People recruitment and retention position Change since previous year.
If no is displayed, there has been no change 5 6 7 8 Low High Likelihood UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30 Low Impact High Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management process UBM employ both a top-down and a bottom-up approach Top-down review to identifying risk ExCo, Head Office and the divisions review the Group and divisional risks maps and compare them Scenario planning Monitoring and with the existing and future characteristics of our strategy creation mitigation products, our services and our customers.
A backcasting exercise was also undertaken in 2017 led by Adjusting strategic an external facilitator.
This involved exploring worst emphasis case scenarios and mapping them to the current UBM principal risks to confirm their validity.
We continue to use a financial modelling process, based on an enhanced version of that used in 2016, to test the resilience of the business in relation to its solvency and liquidity.
Strategic and operational consideration Audit Committee Risk analysis and Board and evaluation review Risk Bottom-up review management A full risk assessment and identification exercise is carried out twice a year.
The RLC function assists the divisions and business functions to review and challenge impacts and likelihoods.
Aggregation also captures separate risks recorded globally.
RLC, with the divisions, review materiality thresholds to ensure risk reports are relevant and appropriate.
Divisional risk Monitoring and identification and mitigation assessment exercise Risk identification at both the top-down and bottom-up level follows a standard risk management framework to assess net impact and likelihood.
Net risk measurement is the impact and likelihood of a given risk after controls are taken into account.
Risks are ranked in order to appropriately direct resources to those which are more material to the business.
Risks which reach a materiality threshold have specific mitigation plans in place to reduce or remove those risks.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Principal risks In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Directors has made a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business including those that could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The following principal risks have been identified from the review process.
Strategic priorities Change in 2017 Agile Customer Operational Standardised High No change Risk increased Risk decreased growth insight and excellence technology performance innovation and data culture Risk Impact Mitigation Risk trend The geo-political environment remains Our business is diversified across multiple geographies and Macroeconomic volatile and a subsequent slowdown in sectors which reduces our reliance on specific regions.
slowdown geo-political the global economy or a regional crisis We have invested in IT systems that will bring us greater could adversely impact the Companys instability or exchange visibility and improve our ability to respond to macro changes revenue, as exhibitor, advertising, attendee, more quickly.
rate fluctuations sponsorship and other discretionary Market and credit collection trends are closely monitored revenue may decline.
As an international and regularly reported at a divisional level.
business UBM is sensitive to this risk.
Events First: Credit policies are kept under review.
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations, We continue to monitor the implications of Brexit.
particularly the US Dollar, could adversely affect our reported earnings and the Exchange rate risk is partially hedged by issuing debt in strength of our balance sheet.
currencies to which we have significant exposure.
Acquisitions are an important part of We apply strict strategic and financial criteria, and have Acquisition risk our strategy.
Acquisitions may not well documented acquisition and integration processes.
We employ comprehensive due diligence processes in Events First: Integration issues or failure to realise assessing potential acquisition opportunities.
operating benefits or synergies may We adopt clear delegated authorities which require also impact expected returns.
Management and Board consents before proceeding over specified threshold values.
We monitor key financial and operational metrics on a monthly basis following an acquisition to ensure business plans and expected synergies are delivered.
For acquisitions of a certain size, we formally review actual performance against the original business plan and the output is presented to the Board.
Follow up reviews may be arranged if appropriate.
The performance of all acquisitions is monitored as part of the budgeting reforecasting reporting process and by formal post-acquisition reviews.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 32 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Impact Mitigation Risk trend Our business operates in many We are disciplined about deciding where we choose to Specific country risk geographies, particularly Emerging operate and new market entry is subject to approval by Markets such as Turkey, the Middle East and Emerging Market the Board.
and Russia which may present logistical exposure We engage in proactive stakeholder management to foster and management challenges due to strong relationships with government and industry operators.
different business cultures, languages or Events First: unfavourable changes in applicable law We integrate key owners and managers of our joint venture or compliance requirements.
Maintaining partners into our development programmes.
our reputation as a responsible corporate We adopt global controls and strong financial systems and entity in the countries we operate in is a compliance requirements.
New markets are subject to the focus for the Company.
same standards and policies as all other business regions.
Expansion through joint ventures reduces Compliance and governance risks are assessed by Group and logistical and management issues but can managed through legal and operational reviews.
create governance and control challenges.
We adopt global ethical and operational standards which meet or go beyond local requirements.
A disaster or natural catastrophe, All our divisions have business continuity and crisis Factors and incidents terrorism, political instability or disease management plans in order to help mitigate against affecting our ability to could affect peoples willingness to catastrophic events.
attend our events, which could have an stage an event We will postpone and or move an event if necessary.
adverse effect on our revenues.
There is We foster strong relationships with venue operators and plan a reputational risk based on how effective Events First: for alternative locations.
our response to these risks might be We place a strong focus on Health, Safety and Security and UBM utilises some of the largest global best practices to reduce the risk of an incident occurring.
venues available creating the possibility of concentration where few or no We carry insurance to reduce our risk exposure.
We build upon our engagement with our customers outside of live trade show events through the use of digital platforms.
UBM relies on suppliers to help deliver effective events.
Risks to the integrity UBM Americas created a Major Incident Management and suitability of these key relationships Plan.
visited three major could undermine the effectiveness of convention centres we use and interviewed their staff these events.
and observed their resources and systems.
Their report confirmed that the security procedures in these venues A major incident at a venue during exceeded the industry norm.
an event may give rise to significant contractual liabilities.
Each division now has a dedicated Health, Safety & Security lead manager.
We monitor our key suppliers closely.
We have enhanced the BCP policies and procedures across UBM with plans in place to schedule live testing exercises.
We have a new global process in place to examine contracts with major venues to identify areas where we could improve commercial terms and reduce contractual liability.
We cannot predict all the changes We use customer insight and experience initiatives to identify Changes in our and impacts that may affect the emerging trends.
Each division closely monitors these trends business environment competitiveness of the business, such and provides regular updates to senior management.
as changes in customer behaviour, or We collect and analyse consistent global customer metrics technological innovations which would Events First: relating to Net Promoter Score NPS and Customer increase competition or make some Satisfaction CSAT scores.
products or services less relevant.
We invest in innovative products that enhance our events and, over time, through development, acquisitions and Social media platforms, search engines disposals, seek to reduce exposure to products which are at and other online technologies could all risk, such as print advertising.
pose a competitive threat to our We use a number of different social media platforms and businesses, as could changes in other sources as one of many connection points with our legislation or compliance requirements customers.
We compete strongly in all our market sectors and we are strengthened by the leading market position of our events and our reputation as a professional and international organiser.
We will continue to work on our relationship with venue operators so that we get access to venues supported by long term contracts.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Principal risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Risk trend The increasing threat from unauthorised Our IT Function operates under clearly defined policies, Technological risk: access to our systems by external parties procedures and maintenance programmes.
These policies are execution, data breach could lead to reputational damage and reviewed annually and a phased upgrade of our information regulatory action.
security resources will be completed next year.
and cyber security As part of its strategy, UBM has continued In 2017 we undertook a comprehensive programme for our to invest in the technology platforms of information security systems, processes and organisation.
Events First: the business to ensure the data we hold This provides a Global Information security management remains protected despite the rapidly system.
We have 24 7 global monitoring and alerting of evolving cyber risk landscape.
threats to UBM's networks and systems.
System failure could have a significant We conduct regular vulnerability assessments of UBMs impact on our business.
The collapse of global network.
We conduct independent penetration the Cloud on which various products and tests of our systems, using a risk based approach.
systems are hosted could have negative Disaster Recovery Plans are in place for key systems and consequences for our operational activity.
these are subject to regular testing.
We have also increased the resilience of our infrastructure through improved system design and enterprise architecture.
We train our employees and raise their awareness on how to behave with regards to information security best practices with a relaunch of computer based training and planned phishing training for next year.
UBM has completed a Global Data Centre project.
Starting with Data Centre consolidation in the US this year we are able to deliver an agile, low cost infrastructure for UBM.
This underpins our comprehensive disaster recovery structure.
We are addressing the requirements of the new European GDPR data privacy regulation through a cross-divisional, cross-functional programme.
With the changing macro-environment Our debt sources are diversified and maturities spread out.
Access to capital and currency changes, the availability Debt is mostly in US Dollars to provide a natural hedge.
or cost of financing may affect our We maintain sufficient liquidity and headroom, and our policy Events First: acquisition strategy.
is to maintain a manageable maturity profile.
We plan on refinancing in advance of maturities to minimise risk.
We have access to both long-term and short-term borrowing facilities at competitive rates.
Changes in the operating model and We use external salary benchmarking as part of our annual People recruitment competitive external landscape could see pay review cycle.
and retention an increase in staff turnover.
We benchmark short and long term incentives to ensure competitiveness.
Events First: We maintain standard terms and conditions including post-termination provisions for all key personnel.
Performance reviews and objective setting is carried out formally each year in respect of all personnel.
We calibrate performance levels and invest in top talent and key personnel.
A robust succession planning process is in place across the Group.
We use routine pulse checks to measure the extent of employee engagement and to learn from their feedback.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The scenarios comprised: For each scenario, UBM has also Long term viability statement identified the mitigation steps it In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the A major incident at a venue in would take to reduce the risk and 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, North America.
performed the scenario modelling on the Board has assessed the outlook of A regional crisis.
These mitigations include the Company over a three-year period.
the identification of business continuity This period continues to be relevant for A key territory restricting market plans and crisis management strategies, the following reasons: access.
and how frequently these are tested.
It aligns to the time period for UBMs Other mitigations included portfolio and A negative shift in a key sector.
financial plan and Major event plans.
reverse stress testing was used to assess For Major events, a three-year the magnitude of change in one or more Key assumptions made in UBMs long period gives sufficient time to review variables within the three-year financial term financial model are: expected revenues based on advanced plan necessary to cause a collapse of bookings and associated risks.
Continuing our Events First strategy UBMs solvency.
This test was based over the three-year period.
Multi-year contracts are entered into on the potential impact of litigation, with major venues which on average third party property damage and a Organic revenue growth extend over a three-year period.
supplemented by targeted The modelling demonstrated that acquisitions and moderate margin The Board has assessed the principal UBM broadly maintained adequate improvements.
risks to the business supported by headroom in the event of the scenarios severe but plausible risk scenario No change to the current long-term occurring and for a combination of modelling.
Management carried out a debt maturity profile.
Where the combined top-down and bottom-up assessment of scenarios came close to breaching the risks facing the business, identifying UBMs headroom it was judged that eight principal risks.
These are set out in there would be sufficient time for the the Principal Risks section on pages 32 Company to adjust and for additional to 34.
Of these Principal Risks, five were mitigation to be carried out.
selected by the Audit Committee to be modelled as part of the assessment of Based on the results of this analysis, the Long Term Viability Statement.
the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, having taken into account the current economic and market trends, and will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Operating and Financial Review Revenue, earnings and cash flow all delivered strongly reflecting the continued progress with the implementation of Events First.
Dear Shareholder Operating review Events UBMs financial performance in 2017 demonstrates continued Adj.
FY 2017 FY 2016 Underlying underlying progress with the Events First strategy.
Each of the key financial m m change % change % metrics of organic revenue growth, operating margin, EPS Annual Events revenue and cash flow developed well in the main due to the improved North America 325.6 295.3 -1.2 0.2 performance of the events portfolio together with the impact of the Allworld acquisition.
The results also benefited from the up' China Mainland & HK 227.9 207.0 8.2 9.4 year biennial effect and from favourable currency movements.
Continental Europe 64.3 59.0 6.3 10.2 Adjusted underlying growth the KPI used to measure organic growth increased to 4.1%, up from 2.1% in the prior year.
Biennial Events revenue 85.8 28.1 The Group delivered strong cash flow in 2017 together with Total Events revenue 866.4 711.6 3.6 5.3 cash conversion of 100.3%.
Net debt reduced by 85m to Total Events revenue was 866.4m 2016: 711.6m, benefiting 511m at the end of the year.
The ratio of net debt: EBITDA from good underlying growth in Annual Events, an FX tailwind of decreased to 1.6 times 2016: 2.4 times and the Group ended 22.7m, revenue from acquisitions which in 2016 had generated the year back inside the target corridor for leverage set out in 60.1m of Annual Events revenue and the biennial up year its financial policy.
During the period we rationalised 29 events which had The Board has declared a final dividend of 18.0p to give a full contributed 11.2m of Annual Event revenues in 2016 and we year dividend of 23.5p which is up 6.8% on last year.
disposed of events which had contributed 10.3m of revenues in 2016.
Marina Wyatt Chief Financial Officer UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 36
