Independent auditors report to the members of Alfa Financial Software Holdings plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Basis for opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at financial statements section of our report.
31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: We are independent of the Group and the parent company in the Group financial statements have been properly prepared accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to in accordance with International Financial Reporting our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities the parent company financial statements have been properly in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is the financial statements have been prepared in accordance sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Summary of our audit approach regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the matters current year were: We have audited the financial statements of Alfa Financial revenue recognition: and Software Holdings plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: capitalisation of development costs.
the consolidated statement of profit or loss and Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group comprehensive income: financial statements was 2.06 million, which was determined on the basis of 5% of the consolidated and parent company statements of adjusted profit before tax.
financial position: Scoping The Group audit team performed full scope the consolidated and parent company statements of audits for Alfa Financial Software Holdings plc changes in equity: and Alfa Financial Software Limited.
Specific the consolidated statement of cash flows: audit procedures were carried out on the the notes 1 to 25 to the consolidated financial statements: and following companies in the Group: the notes 1 to 12 to the financial statements.
Alfa Financial Software Group Limited: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Alfa Financial Software Australia Pty Limited: preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable Alfa Financial Software Inc: law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Alfa Financial Software NZ Limited.
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
86 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2.3 to the financial statements about whether they have nothing material considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their to report, add or draw identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to continue to do so attention to in respect over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the have nothing material knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of to report, add or draw the directors assessment of the Groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are attention to in respect required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 34-35 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 32 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 36 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition Key audit matter Total Group revenue recognised for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 87.8 million description 2016: 73.3 million and related to revenue from i Software implementation services, ii Maintenance and iii Ongoing development and services.
This key audit matter relates to the risk that revenue is recognised inappropriately when there are: i adjustments to revenue that are non-routine or fall outside of the usual business transactions that may impact the timing and extent of accrued and or deferred income amounts: and ii complex and or bespoke contracts with customers that may result in significant judgements over the identification of distinct performance obligations and the related accounting treatment.
Given the level of judgement involved in identification of distinct performance obligations, we identified this as a potential fraud risk area.
Further details are included in the critical accounting estimates and judgements note 3.1 to the consolidated financial statements and the Audit Committee Report on page 65.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 87 Independent auditors report to the members of Alfa Financial Software Holdings plc continued Revenue recognition How the scope of our In response to this key audit matter, we performed the following procedures: audit responded to Evaluated the design and implementation of key controls over the revenue cycle.
the key audit matter Evaluated the evidence supporting the recognition of non-routine accrued income items.
Engaged in discussions with the Companys project managers to evaluate completeness of commercial arrangements considered in the analysis of accounting treatment and to determine whether conditions exist which result in bespoke contractual arrangements outside the usual terms.
Assessed managements evaluation of accounting judgements for a sample of new contracts, focussing on the identification of distinct performance obligations and the treatment of bespoke terms and conditions.
Reviewed minutes of the meetings of the committee which assesses the commercial viability of contracts entered to confirm whether the accounting treatment is consistent with the commercial substance of the agreements.
Tested the key inputs and mathematical accuracy of the percentage of completion calculations.
Key observations From the procedures performed, we did not identify any material misstatement of revenue and are satisfied with the appropriateness of the related disclosures.
Capitalisation of development costs Key audit matter The Group expends a substantial amount of time in research and product development work in relation description to the enhancement of its product.
In accordance with IAS 38: Intangible assets internally generated research and development costs can only qualify for capitalisation if the Group can demonstrate all of the recognition criteria are met.
The Group considers the eligibility of development costs for capitalisation on a project by project basis.
There is a judgement over the point at which work moves from the research phase to the development phase and over whether development spend is creating an asset which is substantially new in functionality or design.
Therefore, there is a risk that development costs are not capitalised for spend that creates an enduring enhancement to the software capabilities available for sale to other clients.
Further details are included in the critical accounting estimates and judgements note 3.2 to the consolidated financial statements and the Audit Committee Report on page 65.
How the scope of our We evaluated the design and implementation of the key controls surrounding the recording and audit responded to monitoring of development spend.
the key audit matter We tested a sample of the research and development costs incurred to assess whether the related projects are creating an asset which is substantially new in functionality and or design.
To do this we evaluated the projects against the definition of an intangible asset and the recognition criteria in IAS 38.
We challenged managements technical assessment of the judgements involved against the accounting standards and their rationale for the treatment of development costs incurred on key projects.
We made enquiries of the development team leader and Chief Information Officer as to the activities of the development teams, including key projects undertaken during the year to evaluate the completeness of managements assessment.
Key observations We did not identify any material misstatement of development costs capitalised as a result of the procedures performed.
88 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our application of materiality The total revenue for the components audited together with We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in those on which specific audit procedures were performed the financial statements that makes it probable that the represented 100% of the Groups revenue.
The component economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person materiality ranged from 40% to 99% of Group materiality.
would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in Other information planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the The directors are responsible for the other information.
other information comprises the information included in the Based on our professional judgement, we determined annual reports Strategic report and Governance section, other materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Parent company other information and, except to the extent otherwise Group financial statements financial statements explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of Materiality 2.06 million 2.04 million assurance conclusion thereon.
Basis for 5% of adjusted profit Materiality equates determining before tax.
Adjustments to less than 1% of the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our materiality to the benchmark have parent companys net responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, been made in respect of assets limited to 99% consider whether the other information is materially IPO costs of 3.0 million of the materiality of inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge and a share-based the Group.
payment charge of obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially 4.4 million because misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent As a holding company, Rationale As a listed entity, profit material misstatements, we are required to determine for the before tax is considered the net assets whether there is a material misstatement in the financial benchmark is benchmark the most appropriate applied benchmark for users of considered the most statements or a material misstatement of the other the financial statements.
If, based on the work we have performed, we on which to base conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other materiality for users of information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the Adjusted PBT 41.25m other information include where we conclude that: Group materiality 2.06m Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by Component materiality range the directors that they consider the annual report and 0.82m to 2.04m financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Audit Committee understandable and provides the information necessary for reporting threshold 0.103m shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.103 million Audit committee reporting the section describing the for the Group and the parent company, as well as differences work of the audit committee does not appropriately address below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall Governance Code the parts of the directors statement presentation of the financial statements.
required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code An overview of the scope of our audit containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly of the Group and its environment, including group-wide disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at Corporate Governance Code.
The Group was audited by the Group audit team which also tested the consolidation process.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
The Group has six components and the Group audit team performed full scope audits for Alfa Financial Software Holdings plc and Alfa Financial Software Limited and specific audit procedures were performed on the remaining components Alfa Financial Software Group Limited, Alfa Financial Software Australia Pty Limited, Alfa Financial Software Inc, and Alfa Financial Software NZ Limited.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 89 Independent auditors report to the members of Alfa Financial Software Holdings plc continued Responsibilities of directors In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities and of the parent company and their environment obtained in statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation the course of the audit, we have not identified any material of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Matters on which we are required directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation to report by exception of financial statements that are free from material Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to In preparing the financial statements, the directors are you if, in our opinion: responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent we have not received all the information and explanations we companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as require for our audit: or applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either adequate accounting records have not been kept by the intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
been received from branches not visited by us: or Auditors responsibilities for the audit the parent company financial statements are not in of the financial statements agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, Directors remuneration and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or records and returns.
error and are considered material if, individually or in the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Other matters financial statements.
Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of we were appointed by Company on 5 July 2017 to audit the the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 Councils website at: www.
The period of total This description forms part of our auditors report.
uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals Use of our report and reappointments of the firm is one year, covering the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a year ended 31 December 2017. body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so the audit committee that we might state to the companys members those matters Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we with ISAs UK.
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Richard Howe FCA Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Senior statutory auditor Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report Statutory Auditor to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with London, UK the Companies Act 2006.
8 March 2018 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
90 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
