Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 38 39 Responsible for all or part of the pensions of over Our impact on our 300m 240m of tax generated or collected of working capital extended to over stakeholders 17,000 people Corporation Tax, NI, PAYE, and VAT 260m cash contributed to pension funds in last 5 years 400,000 7th small businesses in our peak trading period Best Big Company No fees, up to 8 weeks to pay to work for in 2017 as voted by our own employees 380m 9,000 374 of wages, salaries full-time jobs with prospects and benefits paid to employees in UK manufacturing, apprentices currently in our local trade depots in training and in distribution, systems tailored apprentice and support programmes across the Group 48m 3,700 116m 13th of capital investment in the year other charity donations, paid out to shareholders anniversary of partnership with 97% Investing in UK manufacturing, 1.5m given to local charities in dividends and buybacks Leonard Cheshire Disability and expanding our depot network and community activities Significant support of manufacturing waste 100% of UK employees 1m donated in 2017 for a sustainable UK recycled or reused in share ownership Supporting young, disabled adults to forestry industry schemes 12,000 tonnes of sawdust converted find valuable roles within their to energy to heat our factories communities 3 Over 60m 160,000 pallets recovered 230,000m or repaired of rent paid to around 650 of chipboard from managed commercial landlords forests in the UK Timber Trade Federation-certified responsible purchaser Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 40 41 Our people Keeping them safe, offering them rewarding careers, best companies to work for Case Study: rewarding careers Howdens is a brilliant company to work for Keeping our people safe When Hayley left school at 17 and joined Howdens as an Focusing on a safety culture, making safety messages more accessible apprentice, she never imagined that 20 years later she would be managing a depot with a turnover of around 4m, 17 staff, and around 1,300 trade accounts.
Accident severity rate KPI Hayley completed her apprentice program and developed 56% reduction 20132017 RIDDORs 100k hours worked through various roles until she first became manager of an 70 70% reduction 20132017 established depot 10 years ago.
0.25 60 After some years of success there, she took the opportunity to move to a new town and set up her current depot from 50 scratch.
She was in charge of hiring the staff, developing 0.20 contacts with local builders, gaining their trust and getting 40 them to open an account with Howdens and start trading.
0.15 30 When asked about her career with Howdens, Hayley said: Howdens is a brilliant company to work for.
Theres no other 20 0.10 company like it.
Results matter, not formal qualifications.
If 0.07 you work hard you can go a long way, and staff can see that.
10 The hard work and motivation that Hayley has been able 0.05 to instil in her team has often paid off in high sales and Through her career, Hayley has had the benefit of many profitability, and this means that the whole team has been able Howdens training courses, as well as on-the-job training and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 to earn significant bonuses over the years.
Part of the Howdens 0.05 mentoring from her managers.
Now shes a manager herself, Accident severity rate hours lost to accidents 100k hours worked 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 model is that everyone is paid a good basic salary, but that its important to her to develop her own staff and help them to we also recognise and reward exceptional performance with fulfil their potential.
Weve got four apprentices at our depot.
Its important to Weve got 9,000 employees, and we need to keep them all safe at In 2017 we released a number of pictorial safe systems of work, There are individual bonuses for all the team members, and for me to encourage them because thats how I started with work.
Accidents have remained very low this year because weve as well as short safety films which are aimed at making important exceptional performance these can reach the size at which staff Howdens.
Hayley has supported and mentored lots of her continued to invest in safe processes and safe plant andmachinery.
safety messages more engaging and accessible to staff.
We have described them as life-changing.
We also have a pot of staff as they are promoted within the business.
Several of are also implementing safety management software across the We have always committed to developing, implementing and money which is for the whole depot to spend on a team activity.
them have gone on to become managers at other Howdens business which will make it easier to manage risks and processes.
improving safe systems of work, and this has continued during 2017.
Were a team a family said Hayley.
When weve done really depots.
When assistant managers are promoted and move The next step of our journey is to strengthen their effectiveness Were also working with other leading companies and consultants well, our incentive pot has paid for the team to have a trip to on within the business, everyone on the team can see that the with increased emphasis on a safety culture where we support and to help us benchmark and challenge ourselves.
We hope that Dublin in a 5 star hotel, or weve organised a private chef to cook opportunities are there for them.
empower employees to share our aims and work with us.
these actions will improve our safety record even further.
We work really hard, but we have great rewards.
Offering rewarding careers Best Companies to work for Great rewards, great opportunities to develop 7th best big company to work for in 2017 We pay a good basic salary: all of our pay rates are above living that we invest in our staff to offer them opportunities to develop We were very pleased that the responses of our employees meant I have never worked for a company that looks after their wage and most of them are well above it.
We offer a range of and progress with us.
We want our best people to stay with us that we were voted the Sunday Times 7th Best Big Company to employees so well benefits, including pension schemes which we contributed 47m and help grow the business, and we also want to recruit the best work for in 2017.
This shows continuing improvement after being to in 2017, for the benefit of our 17,000 current and past employee people.
We develop tailored programmes for our 374 apprentices As an apprentice I have all the support I need and more voted 12th in 2014 and 25th in 2010. members.
We offer free shares to all our people who stay with throughout the business, offering a range of worthwhile futures to This is the only company I have ever worked for where I feel the company for at least three years so that they can share in young people across the country.
part of something and not just a number We know that, for our business to grow, we need to motivate and ourgrowth.
invest in our people we want them to be proud to work here.
Authentic and real culture, security of job with real Find out more about working with Howdens at https: careers.
So its good to know that the survey showed 80% of our staff opportunities for growth Part of our culture and our business model is that we offer staff the howdens.
com and see the case study on the next page for the feel pride in working for Howden Joinery.
Some comments from chance to get significant bonuses for exceptional performance and story of one depot managers career progression with us.
The bond between the team is an unbreakable one employees were: Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 42 43 Sustainable product Sustainable supply chain Safe and traceable, efficient and durable Sustainable sourcing, actively monitoring our suppliers Safety and traceability Sustainable sourcing Safety by design.
Registering products for traceability Timber management and chain of custody, shared values throughout the supply chain We design safety features into the products we make ourselves, In 2017 weve been developing an initiative to make it easier for Over 75% of our products are wood or wood-based, and were by the Timber Trade Federation as having an environmental due and we carefully select bought-in product from reputable sources our builder-customers to make sure that they have the right fittings responsible for making sure that it is legally harvested and diligence system in place which complies with their Responsible and then we carry out additional safety testing before we sell it to every time they buy a fire door.
We have been working with the British comes from sustainable sources.
Woodworking Federation, whose Certifire fire door certification scheme is the leading authority on fire door safety.
We have In 2017 we used 233,000 cubic metres of chipboard and 38,000 100% of our  timber products are made As an example of safe bought-in product, our Lamona tumble developed guidance for our depots which identifies the six most cubic metres of MDF in our factories.
All of this came from FSC from FSC certified materials, and we aim to source our boughtdryers have always been designed so that the heating element common situations in which a builder would be fitting a fire door, the Forest Stewardship Council certified sources and all of the in products to the same standards.
A typical kitchen range is a and the main airflow are separated.
This is to prevent excess fluff and which automatically selects the right fittings for each situation.
products that we manufacture ourselves hold the FSC chain of combination of items which we have manufactured ourselves and coming into contact with the heating element and potentially custody certification license code FSC-C019676.
This means other items which we have bought in.
A range is only entirely FSCcatching fire.
Its important to us to do as much as we can to trace the that the wood comes from responsibly managed forests and compliant if every individual woden component is FSC certified.
ownership of our appliances, in case we ever have a product that we have independent documented evidence of an unbroken Each of the 26 new kitchen ranges that we introduced in 2017 Our Lamona fridge-freezers and fridges have also been designed recall.
We have installed scanners at all of our depots, so that chain of ownership all the way from the forest to us, via the mill, met this standard.
with the aim of reducing the risk from fire.
The electronic circuit we have a record of which items have been sold to which builderthe importer, and our suppliers.
We have also been approved boards are isolated in a fire-retardant, self-extinguishing box.
Weve also briefed our depot staff on the importance We only want to work with suppliers who share our ethical values.
The top, back and base of each unit is enclosed in fire-retardant of encouraging productregistration and put reminders and We are clear about our expectations and our standards and our material, and they use the latest capacitor technology which is information in our productcatalogues.
KPI aim is that they run through our whole supply chain.
Every year designed to remain safe in the event of a failure.
we gather our main suppliers together at a conference to talk Were also working hard to encourage the domestic end user to 100% of woodabout the issues that affect us and them.
As well as talking to We sell 600,000 fire doors per year, and we recognise that only a register their products so that we can support them if the need them about product development, we use this as an opportunity based material correctly fitted fire door offers the protection it is designed for.
Our product website and the document pack that to repeat and reinforce our expectations for sustainability and A door can be rated to withstand fire for 60 minutes, but if it is not used in our comes with each appliance include links to the Register my ethical behaviour.
We tell them what we need from them and 100% fitted with the correct hinges, frame, intumescent strip, or door appliance website.
Weve also put a sticker on each instruction manufacturing we work together to come up with solutions.
closer, for example, it will not provide that level of protection.
manual with the unique serial number of each appliance, so that processes from its easier for end users to register them.
FSC certified sources Sustainable product Energy efficiency, durability and quality Our appliances are made by third party suppliers to our Offering our customers no-call-back quality kitchen and joinery is Active monitoring specifications.
We have always worked in partnership with our part of our mission statement.
We manufacture all of our cabinets suppliers to improve the energy performance of our appliances, ourselves, which means that we have direct control of their quality Supplier assessments, training our people, risk-based testing and each year this brings improvements in different product and can be confident in offering a 25 year guarantee on them.
Highlights in 2017 are: We take care to select suppliers with high ethical standards and We need our people to understand and demonstrate best practice The exceptional build quality of our cabinets is central to our we make it clear that we expect them to uphold those standards.
and integrity, so weve given them training to support them in their our Lamona washer-dryers now use 21% less water per wash. offering.
In 2017 we improved this even further when we launched We require them to confirm that they are operating ethically, and dealings with suppliers.
All of our buyers and our compliance team They also now incorporate more efficient motors, which means our redesigned cabinet leg.
Its 20% faster for the builder to fit and we gather evidence to support what they say.
have taken and passed the Chartered Institute of Procurement that they offer the same energy consumption as the previous adjust, as well as being 30% stronger.
and Supplys Ethical Procurement & Supply training, and we have model whilst increasing the washing load by 14% Our due diligence systems rely on suppliers accurately declaring a rolling programme of refresher training on Modern Slavery and We test the durability of our manufactured products by subjecting all of our kitchen lighting is now LED, which is 10% longerwhat types of wood are being used and where that wood comes Anti-Bribery.
them to a range of tests intended to represent the challenges of a lasting than our previous best-selling lighting, and which uses from.
To give us extra assurance, we carry out additional checks.
For example, we test the durability of their surfaces by only 50% of the electricity We select samples of wood and send them for independent There is more information about the work we do to safeguard covering them with everyday household products, from bleach to microscopy testing at a leading independent research institute.
against human rights violations in both our own business and People want the highest levels of quality, safety and design, and curry powder, nail varnish and red wine.
We slam test doors and This analysis can prove what type of wood it is.
our supply chain in our modern slavery statement at www.
the lowest energy consumption, at the best price.
We have a rolling drawers up to 10,000 times, and we put half-tonne weights on the .
com responsibilities  programme with our main appliance suppliers where shelves of our tall cabinets.
We subject products to heat, humidity, We have a self-assessment process for our suppliers which includes statement.
we look forward three to five years to develop our products for the ultraviolet light, and steam.
As part of this we ask them future.
Together, we are planning tomorrows energy savings today.
how they manage areas such as health and safety, the environment, ethical sourcing and product compliance.
They have to provide evidence to substantiate their answers and we validate the answers and the evidence.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 44 45 Our environment Reducing waste, responsible operations, lowering emissions, Lowering emissions sustainable transport Efficient operations lead to reduced emissions GREENHOUSE GAS AND EMISSIONS REPORTING Reducing waste Total CO Total CO 2 2 Turning production waste into energy, reducing amounts to landfill, reuse recycle Emissions Emissions Tonnes Tonnes 2017 2016 KPI 1 KPI 2 Scope 1 Direct: Gas 3,314 3,338 Total % of Scope 1 Direct: Diesel 26,548 26,065 100% of all packaging 100% waste recycled used in our Scope 1 Direct: Other fuels 999 1,196 or reused manufacturing is from SCOPE 1 DIRECT: TOTAL 30,861 30,599 recycled sources Scope 2 Indirect: Electricity 25,989 28,148 SCOPE 2 INDIRECT: TOTAL 25,989 28,148 TOTAL Scope 1 and 2 56,850 58,747 97% Turnover m 1,403.8 1,307.3 Turnover ratio tCO e per m 40.5 44.9 2 Inflation adjusted turnover ratio tCO e per m 45.7 47.1 2 Highly-efficient production is one of our strategic aims as it gives us a In 2017, we converted over 12,000 tonnes of sawdust into energy competitive cost advantage.
Over the years weve invested in efficient at our Howden and Runcorn sites.
This is enough sawdust to fill 15 We are pleased to report that our total emissions have reduced in 2017 despite production machinery and in software that takes the constantlyOlympic swimming pools.
Burning it onsite means that it doesnt an increase inturnover.
changing production mix, and maximises the number of panels that have to be transported elsewhere to be reused.
It also saves us Turnover increased by 7% in 2017, whilst the turnover ratio decreased by 11% and the we can get from each sheet of chipboard.
Weve also worked with our money.
We generated approximately 51,000 MWh of energy from our inflation adjusted turnover ratio decreased by 3%.
We will continue to look for further chipboard supplier to develop a new size of board that allows us to biomass boilers in 2017, equivalent to the average annual electricity improvements.
Our record over the past five years is shown on the chart below.
minimise cutting waste even further.
Emission source data is converted to carbon tonnes using the conversion factors published by Defra.
Nevertheless, the sheer scale of our manufacturing operations means Over ten years ago, an employee-led energy efficiency initiative Source data includes meter readings for electricity and gas and purchasing records for other fuels.
that we still generate a lot of sawdust waste.
At both of our factories, came up with the idea of repairing broken pallets rather than we have invested in biomass boilers which burn this waste to produce scrapping them.
We put these pallets back into use, which heat.
They allow us to reuse waste, they reduce our emissions and they cuts down our waste and saves us money.
In 2017 we repaired save us the cost of the equivalent bought-in fuel.
over 160,000 pallets, making a total of 1.5 million since this programstarted.
Responsible operations Total Carbon usage 000s tCO e 2 Energy-efficient facilities, efficient transport Turnover ratio tCO e per m 2 Turnover ratio inflation adjusted tCO e per m All our factories, warehouses and transport sites meet the ISO We have continued to reduce our carbon footprint on the majority 2 14001 standard for Environmental Management.
This assures of our inbound freight from Europe.
Instead of each of our 60.0 us that we have good processes in place.
It also encourages us European suppliers delivering their goods to us individually by to look for further improvements in areas such as sustainable road, we have changed the freight terms so that we take control energy, waste and materialmanagement.
of the goods at the producers factory gate.
This has allowed us to 50.0 consolidate the operation and to move it from road to rail.
91% of We have invested in a number of energy-saving projects at our our European freight was transported by rail in 2017.
The most significant of these involved replacing saving of approximately 1,100 tonnes of CO for the year, as well 2 40.0 old lighting and compressor technology with modern energyas a significant cost saving, and greater operational flexibility.
These initiatives should give us a total energy saving of around 800 kWh per year.
For a case study on our award-winning sustainable transport fleet, 30.0 see pages 46 and 47.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 46 47 Our environment continued A TALLBOY TRAILERS AND PODS We use taller trailers to deliver the cabinets that we make in our Runcorn factory.
Being able to get more Sustainable transport fleet cabinets in each delivery means that weve made an annual reduction in trailer loads equivalent to 1,700 Our always in-stock model means that efficient and safe standard trailers.
transport is strategically important to us.
By fitting our tall trailers with aerodynamic pods, we increase their fuel efficiency.
Award-winning sustainable transport fleet A key part of our business model is that each of our A depots are always in-stock.
To achieve this, our truck fleet covers approximately 15 million miles per year.
Thats the AIR DEFLECTORS equivalent of 600 times around the Earth, and it accounts AND AIRTABS for around a third of our total carbon emissions, so we B The air deflector on the cab roof, and the keep a close eye on it.
airtabs which we have retro-fitted to both We voluntarily upgraded our core fleet to the latest Euro 6 cab and trailer, reduce drag and increase emissions standards back in 2015, and we keep looking fuel efficiency.
for additional ways to make our fleet less polluting, safer, and more efficient.
In 2017, our efforts were recognised by the Freight Transport Association when we won the Leadership in Carbon Reduction Award.
We received praise for our innovative and experimental approach, and for C demonstrating clear leadership in carbon reduction.
B clear leadership in carbon reduction D C D T T TY Y YR R RE E E P P PR R RE E ES S SS S SU U UR R RE E E M M MON ON ONI I IT T TOR OR ORI I ING NG NG IN-CAB MONITORING Incorrect tyre pressures can compromise safety, We have installed advanced in-cab telemetry to reduce fuel efficiency, and lead to increased benchmark our drivers.
We use the information to repair costs and breakdowns.
We have tyre debrief our drivers daily, using key targets such as harsh pressure sensors fitted on all of our trucks, which braking, excessive engine idling in traffic and sudden are automatically monitored by sensors at the acceleration measures which improve both efficiency gates of each of our factories and warehouses.
We reward those who perform to the highest If the tyres are not correctly inflated, this triggers standards, and we work with any drivers who need help a warning email to our control centre so that we to improve.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 48 49 Our communities Local community projects, Leonard Cheshire Disability, on-call firefighters and emergency first responders Local community projects Case Study: Local involvement on a nationwide basis, thousands of donations, 1.5m contributed th 100 inclusive kitchen with Leonard Cheshire Disability Each of our 661 depots, and every one of our manufacturing, buying new kit for a local childrens sports team distribution and support sites, has an important role in the life of Howdens are experts in designing inclusive kitchens for disabled Residents of the home said: giving our staffs time and materials to help renovate facilities its local community.
Each site depends on its local community people or those with limited mobility.
All of our ranges are at a local community centre Now Ill be able to prepare my own meals and eat when I want to.
for its success and growth: for customers and staff.
available with a variety of inclusive features such as easy access donating cash to a local hospitals appeal for vital equipment to cabinets, variable-height worktops for sinks and preparation The new kitchen will enable me to cook like I did when I was at Our culture is based on personal relationships and individual areas, and raised plinths to allow wheelchairs to pass below.
In 2017, weve made 3,700 separate donations which have accountability, and we encourage our people to support and involved us giving cash or products worth 1.5m.
engage with local activities and charities.
We have pledged to supply and fit inclusive kitchens from our range wherever they are needed in any of LCDs homes across Our culture of giving back to the local community also shows We make our products, time and cash available for staff to the country.
Some of these are specific training kitchens, used in the actions our people take as individuals.
Every year, we get involved in all sorts of ways.
This year we have donated 62 to pass on cooking skills which help people increase their ability support our people as they take the Howdens culture and make kitchens and paid for them to be fitted.
These kitchens go into to live independently.
They give up their time and put themselves to the places like village halls and community centres, and help them to test to raise money for all sorts of local and national causes.
continue to serve their neighbourhoods.
This year we planned, donated and fitted 35 kitchens, and in In September 2017, for instance, Howdens people all over the July 2017 we reached the landmark of fitting our 100th inclusive country committed their time to a range of sponsored events, from We also support thousands of small local projects with cash kitchen since the programme started.
sleepouts to sitting in baths of baked beans, to raise money for donations.
Typical donations may be just a few hundred pounds, local homeless projects.
but they will make a big difference.
They might cover things like: The manager of the home where the 100th kitchen was fitted said: Having a fully accessible kitchen for our service users is extremely important for their independence.
They can now join in on all aspects of the kitchen: from preparing a meal, to cooking it, eating in it and of course doing the washing up!
Leonard Cheshire Disability I couldnt begin to describe the hours of freedom and joy, and the 1m donated to nationwide and international projects, 100th inclusive kitchen installed levels of independence this kitchen will bring to our residents.
Weve had a successful partnership with Leonard Cheshire Disability this by supporting them to devise and take part in a range of LCD since 2004 and were pleased to say that it continues to grow.
volunteering projects in their local community.
It gives them In 2017 we have donated cash and goods worth 1m.
individual mentoring, group support and a social network, as well as an opportunity to gain further qualifications.
Howdens LCD works for a society where everyone is equally valued, and support has helped Can Do expand from four locations when we On-call firefighters and emergency first responders supports people with all types of disabilities, all over the world.
Like began our involvement to 17 locations in 2017, supporting 2,000 Howdens, LCD values local relationships, and their work supports young disabled people per year through meaningful volunteering In 2017, we were invited to go to the Home Office, as well as to the disabled people to be active members of their local communities.
Saving lives in local communities opportunities in their local community.
Chief Fire Officers Association, to present this successful model They support disabled people to live in their own homes and Our people are making a real difference in their local community, of the fire and rescue services working with businesses.
in residential care, as well as providing skills and employment Can Do aims to build young peoples confidence, so that they can and are helping to save lives.
Our factory in Howden, Yorkshire, programmes to help disabled people into work.
get out and about on their own, cook their own meals, build their is on the edge of a small rural town.
The local fire station is We also have some employees who are trained as emergency support and friendship networks, and where possible get them unmanned and relies on on-call firefighters.
These are people Our work with LCD is currently focused in three main areas: first responders and who support the local ambulance service.
ready for the world of work.
who typically have other jobs or responsibilities, but when the call These people are called out to give essential advanced first aid in designing and fitting inclusive kitchens in their care homes comes they drop whatever they are doing and respond.
In 2017 we have started working with LCD on a programme of the case of, say, a heart attack or stroke.
They give vital initial care and day centres so that disabled people can live more employability workshops, designed to equip people with the skills until an ambulance can get to the scene.
This sort of care can be independently see case study on facing page Seven years ago we started working with the local Fire and Rescue they need to succeed in the jobs market.
The workshops will cover critical in determining the outcome of an emergency, especially Service and we currently have 14 employees who are trained helping young disabled people play an active role in a range of practical skills and we will also offer follow-up mentoring in more rural areas where ambulances have to come from further members of the on-call firefighter team at the Howden fire station.
their communities through sponsorship of the Can Do support.
Funding has been committed, planning is at an advanced away.
According to the local Fire and Rescue Service, the team That station sent teams to over 200 incidents in 2017, including volunteering programme stage and the first workshops are scheduled for April 2018. which our employees are part of has saved at least five lives in the house fires, industrial fires, road traffic collisions and incidents in offering support and skills training through employability last year, as well as having a positive impact on many incidents which people and animals were trapped in burning buildings.
In the There are more details of our involvement with LCD online at workshops and mentoring where people had suffered major injuries.
words of the Chief Officer, that relationship has been instrumental www.
com about-us  and In 2010 we began to support LCDs Can Do programme.
Can Do in keeping crewing levels high and keeping two vehicles on the run more information about LCD at www.
Around three years ago, we started to do the same thing at our gives young disabled adults the chance to develop important during the day as well as on evenings and at weekends.
Runcorn factory and we now have an on-call firefighter team life and work skills, and boost their self-confidence.
In 2017 we also started to recruit for a team at our main warehouse in Northamptonshire.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
