 OPERATIONS  Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this document are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us, including some statements concerning future results, outlooks, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred.
These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking.
These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business and the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management.
We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like will, may, could, should, would, believe, depends, expect, goal, anticipate, forecast, project, future, intend, plan, estimate, target, indicate and similar expressions of future intent or the negative of such terms.
Forward-looking statements include those statements that may impact our outlook including, but not limited to, the forecasting of our: Net revenue yields Net cruise costs, excluding fuel per available lower berth day Booking levels Estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values Pricing and occupancy Goodwill, ship and trademark fair values Interest, tax and fuel expenses Liquidity Currency exchange rates Adjusted earnings per share Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this 2017 Annual Report.
This note contains important cautionary statements of the known factors that we consider could materially affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position.
It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks.
There may be additional risks that we consider immaterial or which are unknown.
These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: The demand for cruises may decline due to adverse world events impacting the ability or desire of people to travel, including conditions affecting the safety and security of travel, government regulations and requirements, and decline in consumer confidence Incidents, such as ship incidents, security incidents, the spread of contagious diseases and threats thereof, adverse weather conditions or other natural disasters and the related adverse publicity affecting our reputation and the health, safety, security and satisfaction of guests and crew Changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to environment, health, safety, security, data privacy and protection, tax and anti-corruption under which we operate may lead to litigations, enforcement actions, fines, or penalties Disruptions and other damages to our information technology and other networks and operations, breaches in data security, lapses in data privacy, and failure to keep pace with developments in technology Ability to recruit, develop and retain qualified shipboard personnel who live on ships away from home for extended periods of time Increases in fuel prices and availability of fuel supply Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates Overcapacity and competition in the cruise ship and land-based vacation industry Continuing financial viability of our travel agent distribution system, air service providers and other key vendors in our supply chain, as well as reductions in the availability of, and increases in the prices for, the services and products provided by these vendors 37 Inability to implement our shipbuilding programs and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments on terms that are favorable or consistent with our expectations, as well as increases to our repairs and maintenance expenses and refurbishment costs as our fleet ages Geographic regions in which we try to expand our business may be slow to develop and ultimately not develop how we expect The ordering of the risk factors set forth above is not intended to reflect any Company indication of priority or likelihood.
Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results.
Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant stock exchange rules, we expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this 2017 Annual Report, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
 2017 marked another very strong year for us as we delivered record cash from operations of over $5.3 billion and record revenues of $17.5 billion.
Key information for 2017 compared to the prior year see Key Performance Non-GAAP Financial Indicators for definitions and reconciliations : Net income for 2017 of $2.6 billion, or $3.59 diluted earnings per share, compared to $2.8 billion, or $3.72 diluted earnings per share for 2016.
Adjusted net income increased 7.4% to $2.8 billion from $2.6 billion in 2016 and adjusted diluted earnings per share increased to $3.82 from $3.45 in 2016.
Adjusted net income excludes unrealized gains on fuel derivatives of $227 million and impairments and other net charges of $390 million for the full year 2017 and unrealized gains on fuel derivatives of $236 million and other net charges of $37 million for the full year 2016.
Revenues increased $1.1 billion to $17.5 billion from $16.4 billion in 2016.
Gross revenue yields revenue per available lower berth day or ALBD increased 3.9%.
In constant currency, net revenue yields increased 4.5%, comprised of a 4.9% increase in net passenger ticket revenue yields and a 3.4% increase in net onboard and other revenue yields.
Gross cruise costs including fuel per ALBD increased 7.2%.
Net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD in constant currency increased 2.7%.
Changes in fuel prices including realized fuel derivatives and currency exchange rates decreased earnings by $0.03 per share.
Noncash impairment charges for ships, trademark and goodwill of $392 million resulting primarily from our decision to strategically realign our business in Australia.
We achieved our highest adjusted diluted earnings per share with strong operational improvement overcoming a significant drag from fuel and currency and hurricane disruptions.
We improved our ROIC to 9.4% and continue to return excess cash to shareholders.
We increased our quarterly dividend twice in 2017 and distributed $1.1 billion in dividends during the year.
Additionally, we invested another nearly $600 million in our ongoing share repurchase program bringing our cumulative repurchases, in just over two years, to $3.1 billion as of November 30, 2017: all while maintaining our high investment grade credit rating.
Our strong results affirm the efforts of our 120,000 team members whose commitment and passion enable us to exceed the expectations of our 12.1 million guests annually, and are also a credit to our travel agent partners who support all of our brands.
It is through their collective efforts that we delivered such strong earnings and we embark upon 2018 with booking volumes and pricing both ahead of last year.
38 In addition to our record-breaking financial results, we had many other accomplishments this year which we expect will pay dividends in 2018 and beyond.
In November 2017, we debuted the OCEAN experience platform on Regal Princess, ushering in a new era in highly personalized travel at scale.
We are fine tuning and enhancing the platform based on real time learning as we prepare for a full roll out aboard Regal Princess.
We also recently introduced PlayOcean, our proprietary mobile gaming portfolio.
PlayOcean taps into the growing interest in mobile gaming by offering a selection of original games that can be played at home.
We announced a new partnership with Univision to develop the first OCEAN prime-time series, La Gran Sorpresa, providing programing in Spanish featuring the Hispanic community.
The cruise vacation experiences shared in La Gran Sopresa align with the core values of the Univision audience, focusing on multi-generational family, togetherness, fun and passion for life.
We also launched OceanView, our own proprietary digital streaming network featuring compelling experiential content twenty-four seven, and currently available on major digital platforms as well as onboard our ships.
OceanView launched simultaneously with our two new proprietary original content digital productions, Go and Local Eyes, that complement our three award winning television shows, The Voyager with Josh Garcia on NBC, Ocean Treks with Jeff Corwin on ABC and Vacation Creation with Tommy Davidson and Andrea Feczko also on ABC.
To date, our original content television programs have garnered over 100 hours of cumulative airtime and reached an audience of over 200 million viewers.
Other successful public relations efforts include the premiere of the major motion picture, The Greatest Showman.
on Cunards Queen Mary 2 as well as Holland America Lines featured cruises in partnership with O Magazine, including Oprahs own voyage on Eurodam in Alaska.
In Italy, our third commercial for our Costa brand featuring Shakira launched on Christmas Day, continuing that highly successful marketing campaign.
These efforts are all engineered to reach audiences multiple times in multiple ways to help drive demand for our brands, ultimately leading to higher yields.
There have been a number of significant developments in our strategic fleet enhancement plan which is an important part of our measured capacity growth strategy and includes replacing less efficient ships with new more efficient vessels.
In 2017, we introduced three new state of the art cruise ships, Seabourn Encore, Majestic Princess and AIDAperla, and we signed agreements with Fincantieri to build three additional ships.
At the same time we signed agreements to sell two ships expected to leave the fleet in 2018, keeping us on pace with our historical average of removing one to two ships per year.
We expect net capacity growth to be around 5% compound annually through 2022 in keeping with our philosophy of measured capacity growth, as new ships replace some existing capacity.
We also realized a number of other notable accomplishments: We continued the roll out of our new state-of-the-art revenue management system across six of our brands, which is expected to facilitate further yield uplift.
We also accelerated progress on our cost containment efforts delivering more than $100 million of savings.
Two of our brands obtained approval and are now operating cruises to Cuba, our contemporary Carnival Cruise Line sailing from Tampa and our premium Holland America Line brand sailing from Fort Lauderdale.
We continue to make meaningful progress on our 2020 sustainability goals focusing on our environmental, safety, labor and social performance.
We have already reduced our unit fuel consumption by 29% since initiating the effort, and we remain committed to ongoing reduction in air emissions with the delivery of AIDAperla in 2017, our second cruise ship to be powered in port by environmentally friendly liquefied natural gas, along with the keel laying of AIDAnova, the first of seven all-LNG ships on order.
Our commitment to continuous improvement in health, environment, safety and security resulted in our being ranked in the top quartile of the 100 best Corporate Citizens by Corporate Responsibility magazine, as well as 39 recognition for our sustainability report which was ranked number-one globally by Corporate Register.
We also launched our first dedicated sustainability report website to expand our sustainability reporting.
We joined pledges to support the advancement of womens leadership and diversity in the workplace drafted by Catalyst the leading global nonprofit focused on expanding opportunities for women and to support and encourage diversity in the workplace drafted by the Executive Leadership Council the leading global organization working to empower African-American corporate leaders.
We remain committed to achieving increased consideration for cruise vacations and continued investment in our guest experience to create additional consumer demand in excess of measured capacity growth, while at the same time positioning ourselves further along the path to sustained double digit ROIC.
 On December 19, 2017, we disclosed in our earnings release that we expected our adjusted earnings per share for the 2018 first quarter to be in the range of $0.37 to $0.41 and 2018 full year to be in the range of $4.00 to $4.30 see Key Performance Non-GAAP Financial Indicators.
Our guidance was based on the December 19, 2017 assumptions included in the table below.
Based on fuel prices and foreign currency exchange rates as of January 24, 2018 included in the table below, our adjusted earnings per share for the 2018 first quarter would increase by $0.02 and for the 2018 full year would increase by $0.15.
The increase for the 2018 full year was caused by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $0.17 per share, partially offset by higher fuel prices, net of lower forecasted realized losses on fuel derivatives of $0.02 per share.
We have not provided a reconciliation of forecasted U. S. GAAP earnings per share to forecasted adjusted earnings per share because preparation of meaningful U. S. GAAP forecasts of earnings per share would require unreasonable effort.
We are unable to predict, without unreasonable effort, the future movement of foreign exchange rates and fuel prices.
While we forecast realized gains and losses on fuel derivatives by applying current Brent prices to the derivatives that settle in the forecast period, we do not forecast the impact of unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives because we do not believe they are an indication of our future earnings performance.
We are unable to determine the future impact of gains or losses on ships sales, restructuring expenses and other non-core gains and charges.
The above forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us.
There are many factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed above.
You should read the above forward-looking statements together with the discussion of the risks under Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results.
40  Refer to our consolidated financial statements for further information on Accounting Pronouncements.
 Our critical accounting estimates are those we believe require our most significant judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that materially different estimates would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: ShipAccounting Our most significant assets are our ships, including ship improvements and ships under construction, which represent 80% of our total assets at November 30, 2017.
We make several critical accounting estimates with respect to our ship accounting.
First, in order to compute our ships depreciation expense, which represented 11% of our cruise costs and expenses in 2017, we have to estimate the useful life of each of our ships as well as their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improvement costs by capitalizing those costs we believe add value to our ships and have a useful life greater than one year and depreciate those improvements over its estimated remaining useful life.
The costs of repairs and maintenance, including minor improvement costs and dry-dock expenses, are charged to expense as incurred.
When we record the retirement of a ship component included within the ships cost basis, we may have to estimate the net book value of the asset being retired in order to remove it from the ships cost basis.
We determine the useful life of our ships and ship improvements based on our estimates of the period over which the assets will be of economic benefit to us, including the impact of long-term vacation market conditions, marketing and technical obsolescence, competition, physical deterioration, historical useful lives of similarlybuilt ships, regulatory constraints and maintenance requirements.
In addition, we consider estimates of the weighted-average useful lives of the ships major component systems, such as the hull, cabins, main electric, superstructure and engines.
Taking all of this into consideration, we have estimated our new ships useful lives at 30 years.
We determine the residual value of our ships based on our long-term estimates of their resale value at the end of their useful life to us but before the end of their physical and economic lives to others, historical resale values of our and other cruise ships and viability of the secondary cruise ship market.
We have estimated our residual values at 15% of our original ship cost.
Given the large size and complexity of our ships, ship accounting estimates require considerable judgment and are inherently uncertain.
We do not have cost segregation studies performed to specifically componentize our ships.
In addition, since we do not separately componentize our ships, we do not identify and track depreciation of original ship components.
Therefore, we typically have to estimate the net book value of components that are retired, based primarily upon their replacement cost, their age and their original estimated useful lives.
If materially different conditions existed, or if we materially changed our assumptions of ship useful lives and residual values, our depreciation expense, loss on retirement of ship components and net book value of our ships would be materially different.
In addition, if we change our assumptions in making our determinations as to whether improvements to a ship add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair and maintenance expense could increase, which would be partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense, resulting from a reduction in capitalized costs.
Our 2017 ship depreciation expense would have increased by approximately $41 million assuming we had reduced our estimated 30-year ship useful life estimate by one year at the time we took delivery or acquired each of our ships.
In addition, our 2017 ship depreciation expense would have increased by approximately $215 million assuming we had estimated our ships to have no residual value at the time of their delivery or acquisition.
41 We believe that the estimates we made for ship accounting purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently applied in all material respects and result in depreciation expense that is based on a rational and systematic method to equitably allocate the costs of our ships to the periods during which we use them.
In addition, we believe that the estimates we made are reasonable.
We applied our methods consistently in determining 1 the useful life and residual values of our ships, including ship improvements: 2 which improvement costs add value to our ships and 3 the net book value of ship component assets being retired.
Finally, we believe our critical ship accounting estimates are generally comparable with those of other major cruise companies.
AssetImpairments Impairment reviews of our cruise ships, goodwill and trademarks require us to make significant estimates to determine the fair values of these assets and reporting units.
For our cruise ships, we perform our impairment reviews, if required, at the individual cruise ship level, which is the lowest level for which we have identifiable cash flows independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.
See Note 10 Fair Value Measurements, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and Financial Risk in the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of ship impairment charges recorded in 2017.
The determination of ship fair value includes numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, unless a comparable, viable actively-traded market exists, which is usually not the case for cruise ships, cruise brands and trademarks.
Our ships fair values are typically estimated based either on ship sales price negotiations or discounted future cash flows.
The principal assumptions used to calculate our discounted future cash flows include forecasted future operating results over the expected period.
We believe the ships, including their estimated residual values, will have economic benefit to us.
As of July 31, 2017, we performed our annual goodwill and trademark impairment reviews.
See Note 10 Fair Value Measurements, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities and Financial Risk in the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our goodwill and trademark impairment charges recorded in 2017.
The determination of our reporting unit goodwill and trademark fair values includes numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The principal assumptions, all of which are considered Level 3 inputs, used in our cash flow analyses consisted of: Forecasted operating results, including net revenue yields and net cruise costs including fuel prices Capacity changes and the expected rotation of vessels into or out of each of these cruise brands, including decisions about the allocation of new ships amongst brands, the transfer of ships between brands and the timing of ship dispositions Weighted-average cost of capital of market participants, adjusted for the risk attributable to the geographic regions in which these cruise brands operate Capital expenditures, proceeds from forecasted dispositions of ships and terminal values We believe that we have made reasonable estimates and judgments.
Changes in the conditions or circumstances may result in a need to recognize an additional impairment charge.
Contingencies We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, regulatory, guest and crew and tax matters.
In addition, we periodically assess the recoverability of our trade and other receivables and our charter-hire and 42 other counterparty credit exposures, by financial and other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
Our credit exposure also includes contingent obligations related to our guests cash payments received directly by travel agents and tour operators in Australia and Europe.
In most of Europe, we are obligated to honor our guests cruise payments made to their travel agents and tour operators regardless of whether we have received these payments.
While it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these matters, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probable, or more likely than not MLTN for income tax matters, that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of such matters and whether a reasonable estimation of such probable or MLTN loss, if any, can be made.
In assessing probable losses, we make estimates of the amount of probable insurance recoveries, if any, which are recorded as assets where appropriate.
We accrue a liability and establish a reserve when we believe a loss is probable or MLTN for income tax matters, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated in accordance with U. S. GAAP.
Such accruals and reserves are typically based on developments to date, managements estimates of the outcomes of these matters, our experience in contesting, litigating and settling other similar non-income tax matters, historical claims experience, actuarially determined estimates of liabilities and any related insurance coverages.
Given the inherent uncertainty related to the eventual outcome of these matters and potential insurance recoveries, it is possible that all or some of these matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we may have made.
In addition, as new information becomes available, we may need to reassess the amount of asset or liability that needs to be accrued related to our contingencies.
All such changes in our estimates could materially impact our results of operations and financial position.
ResultsofOperations We earn substantially all of our cruise revenues from the following: Sales of passenger cruise tickets and, in some cases, the sale of air and other transportation to and from airports near our ships home ports and cancellation fees.
We also collect fees, taxes and other charges from our guests The cruise ticket price typically includes the following: Accommodations Most meals, including snacks at numerous venues Access to amenities such as swimming pools, water slides, water parks, whirlpools, a health club and sun decks Supervised youth programs Entertainment, such as theatrical and comedy shows, live music and nightclubs Visits to multiple destinations Sales of goods and services not included in the cruise ticket price are generally the following: Substantially all liquor and some Internet and communication services non-alcoholic beverage sales Full service spas Casino gaming Specialty restaurants Shore excursions Art sales Gift shop sales Laundry and dry cleaning services Photo sales These goods and services are provided either directly by us or by independent concessionaires, from which we receive either a percentage of their revenues or a fee.
We incur cruise operating costs and expenses for the following: The costs of passenger cruise bookings, which represent costs that are directly associated with passenger cruise ticket revenues, and include travel agent commissions, cost of air and other transportation and credit and debit card fees 43 Onboard and other cruise costs, which represent costs that are directly associated with onboard and other revenues, and include the costs of liquor and some non-alcoholic beverages, costs of tangible goods sold by us in our gift shops and from our photo packages, communication costs, costs of cruise vacation protection programs, costs of preand post-cruise land packages and credit and debit card fees Fuel costs, which include fuel delivery costs Payroll and related costs, which represent all costs related to our shipboard personnel, including bridge and engineering officers and crew and hotel and administrative employees, while costs associated with our shoreside personnel are included in selling and administrative expenses Food costs, which include both our guest and crew food costs Other ship operating expenses, which include port costs that do not vary with guest head counts: repairs and maintenance, including minor improvements and dry-dock expenses: hotel costs: entertainment: gains and losses on ship sales: ship impairments: freight and logistics: insurance premiums and all other ship operating expenses Concession revenues do not have significant associated expenses because the costs and services incurred for concession revenues are borne by our concessionaires.
ALBDs assume that each cabin we offer for sale accommodates two passengers and is computed by multiplying passenger capacity by revenue-producing ship operating days in the period.
b In 2017 compared to 2016, we had a 2.9% capacity increase in ALBDs comprised of a 3.2% capacity increase in our North America segment and a 2.4% capacity increase in our EAA segment.
Our North America segments capacity increase was caused by: Full period impact from one Seabourn 600-passenger capacity ship that entered into service in December 2016 Partial period impact from one Holland America Line 2,650-passenger capacity ship that entered into service in April 2016 Partial period impact from one Carnival Cruise Line 3,930-passenger capacity ship that entered into service in May 2016 44 Partial period impact from one Princess Cruises 3,560-passenger capacity ship that entered into service in April 2017 These increases were offset by the partial period impact from the transfer of one Princess Cruises 2,000-passenger capacity ship to P&O Cruises Australia in May 2017.
Our EAA segments capacity increase was caused by: Partial period impact from one AIDA 3,290-passenger capacity ship that entered into service in April 2016 Partial period impact from one AIDA 3,290-passenger capacity ship that entered into service in June 2017 Partial period impact from the transfer of one Princess Cruises 2,000-passenger capacity ship to P&O Cruises Australia that entered into service in July 2017 These increases were partially offset by the partial period impact from one P&O Cruises Australia 1,550-passenger capacity ship removed from service in April 2017.
In 2016 compared to 2015, we had a 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs comprised of a 7.5% capacity increase in our EAA segment and a slight capacity increase in our North America segment.
Our North America segments slight capacity increase was caused by: Partial period impact from one Carnival Cruise Line 3,930-passenger capacity ship delivered in May 2016 Partial period impact from one Holland America Line 2,650-passenger capacity ship delivered in April 2016 These increases were partially offset by the full period impact from the transfer of two Holland America Line 1,260-passenger capacity ships to P&O Cruises Australia in 2015.
Our EAA segments capacity increase was caused by: Full period impact from the transfer of two Holland America Line 1,260-passenger capacity ships to P&O Cruises Australia in 2015 Partial period impact from one P&O Cruises UK 3,650-passenger capacity ship delivered in 2015 Partial period impact from one AIDA 3,290-passenger capacity ship delivered in April 2016 Fewer ship dry-dock days in 2016 compared to 2015 c In accordance with cruise industry practice, occupancy is calculated using a denominator of ALBDs, which assumes two passengers per cabin even though some cabins can accommodate three or more passengers.
Percentages in excess of 100% indicate that on average more than two passengers occupied some cabins.
2017Comparedto2016 Revenues Consolidated Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 74% of our 2017 total revenues.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues increased by $854 million, or 7.1%, to $12.9 billion in 2017 from $12.1 billion in 2016.
This increase was caused by: $517 million increase in cruise ticket revenues, driven primarily by price improvements in our Caribbean, European and Alaska programs, partially offset by decrease in our China programs $348 million 2.9% capacity increase in ALBDs $55 million increase in other passenger revenue 45 These increases were partially offset by: $54 million foreign currency translational impact from a stronger U. S. dollar against the functional currencies of our foreign operations foreign currency translational impact $20 million decrease in air transportation revenues The remaining 26% of 2017 total revenues were substantially all comprised of onboard and other cruise revenues, which increased by $262 million, or 6.4%, to $4.3 billion in 2017 from $4.1 billion in 2016.
This increase was driven by: $124 million higher onboard spending by our guests $117 million 2.9% capacity increase in ALBDs Concession revenues, which are included in onboard and other revenues, increased by $18 million, or 1.8%, to $1.1 billion in 2017 from $1.0 billion in 2016.
NorthAmericaSegment Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 72% of our North America segments 2017 total revenues.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues increased by $658 million, or 9.0% to $8.0 billion in 2017 from $7.3 billion in 2016.
This increase was caused by: $369 million increase in cruise ticket revenues, driven primarily by price improvements in Caribbean, European and Alaska programs, partially offset by decrease in our China programs $232 million 3.2% capacity increase in ALBDs $32 million increase in occupancy $28 million increase in other passenger revenue The remaining 28% of our North America segments 2017 total revenues were comprised of onboard and other cruise revenues, which increased by $208 million, or 7.4%, to $3.0 billion in 2017 from $2.8 billion in 2016.
The increase was driven by: $89 million 3.2% capacity increase in ALBDs $88 million higher onboard spending by our guests Concession revenues, which are included in onboard and other revenues, increased by $21 million, or 3.0%, to $722 million in 2017 from $701 million in 2016.
EAASegment Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 81% of our EAA segments 2017 total revenues.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues increased by $186 million, or 3.9%, to $5.0 billion in 2017 from $4.8 billion 2016.
This increase was caused by: $141 million increase in cruise ticket revenues, driven primarily by price improvements in the European programs, partially offset by decrease in the China programs $117 million 2.4% capacity increase in ALBDs These increases were partially offset by: $54 million foreign currency translational impact $25 million decrease in occupancy 46 The remaining 19% of our EAA segments 2017 total revenues were comprised of onboard and other cruise revenues, which increased by $65 million, or 6.0%, to $1.2 billion in 2017 from $1.1 billion in 2016.
The increase was caused by: $47 million higher onboard spending by our guests $26 million 2.4% capacity increase in ALBDs Concession revenues, which are included in onboard and other revenues, decreased by $2 million, or 0.6%, to $330 million in 2017 from $332 million in 2016.
CostsandExpenses Consolidated Operating costs and expenses increased by $1.1 billion or 12%, to $10.5 billion in 2017 from $9.4 billion in 2016.
This increase was caused by: $314 million higher fuel prices $304 million impairment of ships, resulting primarily from our decision to strategically realign our business in Australia $265 million 2.9% capacity increase in ALBDs $68 million higher cruise payroll and related expenses $67 million higher port expenses $65 million higher commissions, transportation and other expenses $64 million higher dry-dock expenses and repair and maintenance expenses These increases were partially offset by foreign currency translational impact, which accounted for $34 million.
Selling and administrative expenses increased by $68 million, or 3.1%, to $2.3 billion in 2017 from $2.2 billion in 2016.
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $108 million, or 6.2%, to $1.8 billion in 2017 from $1.7 billion in 2016.
Goodwill and trademark impairment charges of $89 million include a goodwill impairment charge of $38 million and a trademark impairment charge of $50 million during the third quarter of 2017, resulting from our decision to strategically realign our business in Australia.
NorthAmericaSegment Operating costs and expenses increased by $550 million, or 9.8%, to $6.2 billion in 2017 from $5.6 billion in 2016.
This increase was driven by: $196 million higher fuel prices $179 million 3.2% capacity increase in ALBDs $76 million higher commissions, transportation and other expenses $41 million higher port expenses $37 million higher cruise payroll and related expenses 47 Selling and administrative expenses increased by $64 million, or 5.2%, to $1.3 billion in 2017 from $1.2 billion in 2016.
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $80 million, or 7.6%, to $1.1 billion in 2017 from $1.1 billion in 2016.
EAASegment Operating costs and expenses increased by $558 million, or 16%, to $4.1 billion in 2017 from $3.5 billion in 2016.
This increase was caused by: $304 million impairment of ships, resulting primarily from our decision to strategically realign our business in Australia $118 million higher fuel prices $86 million 2.4% capacity increase in ALBDs $56 million higher dry-dock expenses and repair and maintenance expenses $26 million higher port expenses $26 million higher cruise payroll and related expenses These increases were partially offset by: $34 million foreign currency translational impact $20 million decrease in air transportation costs Selling and administrative expenses increased by $29 million, or 4.2%, to $720 million in 2017 from $691 million in 2016.
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $21 million, or 3.5%, to $620 million in 2017 from $599 million in 2016.
OperatingIncome Our consolidated operating income decreased by $262 million, or 8.5%, to $2.8 billion in 2017 from $3.1 billion in 2016.
Our North America segments operating income increased by $171 million, or 7.8%, to $2.4 billion in 2017 from $2.2 billion in 2016, and our EAA segments operating income decreased by $444 million, or 41%, to $0.6 billion in 2017 from $1.1 billion in 2016.
These changes were primarily due to the reasons discussed above.
NonoperatingIncome Expense YearsEnded November30, in millions 2017 2016 Unrealized gains on fuel derivatives.............................................. $ 227 $ 236 Realized losses on fuel derivatives, net............................................ 192 283 Gains losses on fuel derivatives, net............................................. $ 35 $ 47 48   We use net cruise revenues per ALBD net revenue yields, net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD, adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share as non-GAAP financial measures of our cruise segments and the companys financial performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures are provided along with U. S. GAAP gross cruise revenues per ALBD gross revenue yields, gross cruise costs per ALBD and U. S. GAAP net income and U. S. GAAP earnings per share.
We believe that gains and losses on ship sales, impairment charges, restructuring and certain other expenses are not part of our core operating business and, therefore, are not an indication of our future earnings performance.
As such, we exclude these items from non-GAAP measures.
Net revenue yields and net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD enable us to separate the impact of predictable capacity or ALBD changes from price and other changes that affect our business.
We believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors and expanded insight to measure our revenue and cost performance as a supplement to our U. S. GAAP consolidated financial statements.
The presentation of our non-GAAP financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation from, as substitute for, or superior to the financial information prepared in accordance with U. S. GAAP.
It is possible that our non-GAAP financial measures may not be exactly comparable to the like-kind information presented by other companies, which is a potential risk associated with using these measures to compare us to other companies.
Net revenue yields are commonly used in the cruise industry to measure a companys cruise segment revenue performance and for revenue management purposes.
We use net cruise revenues rather than gross cruise revenues to calculate net revenue yields.
We believe that net cruise revenues is a more meaningful measure in determining revenue yield than gross cruise revenues because it reflects the cruise revenues earned net of our most significant variable costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of air and other transportation, certain other costs that are directly associated with onboard and other revenues and credit and debit card fees.
Net passenger ticket revenues reflect gross passenger ticket revenues, net of commissions, transportation and other costs.
Net onboard and other revenues reflect gross onboard and other revenues, net of onboard and other cruise costs.
Net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD is the measure we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segments costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD.
We exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calculation of net cruise revenues as well as fuel expense to calculate net cruise costs without fuel to avoid duplicating these variable costs in our non-GAAP financial measures.
Substantially all of our net cruise costs excluding fuel are largely fixed, except for the impact of changing prices once the number of ALBDs has been determined.
We have not provided a reconciliation of forecasted gross cruise revenues to forecasted net cruise revenues or forecasted gross cruise costs to forecasted net cruise costs without fuel or forecasted U. S. GAAP net income to forecasted adjusted net income or forecasted U. S. GAAP earnings per share to forecasted adjusted earnings per share because preparation of meaningful U. S. GAAP forecasts of gross cruise revenues, gross cruise costs, net income and earnings per share would require unreasonable effort.
49  Our EAA segment and Cruise Support segment operations utilize the euro, sterling and Australian dollar as their functional currencies to measure their results and financial condition.
This subjects us to foreign currency translational risk.
Our North America, EAA and Cruise Support segment operations also have revenues and expenses that are in a currency other than their functional currency.
This subjects us to foreign currency transactional risk.
We report net revenue yields, net passenger ticket revenue yields, net onboard and other revenue yields and net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD on a constant dollar and constant currency basis assuming the 2017 and 2016 periods currency exchange rates have remained constant with the 2016 and 2015 periods rates, respectively.
These metrics facilitate a comparative view for the changes in our business in an environment with fluctuating exchange rates.
Constant dollar reporting removes only the impact of changes in exchange rates on the translation of our EAA segment and Cruise Support segment operations.
Constant currency reporting removes the impact of changes in exchange rates on the translation of our EAA segment and Cruise Support segment operations as in constant dollar plus the transactional impact of changes in exchange rates from revenues and expenses that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency for our North America, EAA and Cruise Support segments.
Examples: The translation of our EAA segment operations to our U. S. dollar reporting currency results in decreases in reported U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies and increases in reported U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens against these foreign currencies.
Our North America segment operations have a U. S. dollar functional currency but also have revenue and expense transactions in currencies other than the U. S. dollar.
If the U. S. dollar strengthens against these other currencies, it reduces the U. S. dollar revenues and expenses.
If the U. S. dollar weakens against these other currencies, it increases the U. S. dollar revenues and expenses.
Our EAA segment operations have euro, sterling and Australian dollar functional currencies but also have revenue and expense transactions in currencies other than their functional currency.
If their functional currency strengthens against these other currencies, it reduces the functional currency revenues and expenses.
If the functional currency weakens against these other currencies, it increases the functional currency revenues and expenses.
Under U. S. GAAP, the realized and unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives not qualifying as fuel hedges are recognized currently in earnings.
We believe that unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives are not an indication of our earnings performance since they relate to future periods and may not ultimately be realized in our future earnings.
Therefore, we believe it is more meaningful for the unrealized gains and losses on fuel derivatives to be excluded from our net income and earnings per share and, accordingly, we present adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share excluding these unrealized gains and losses.
We believe that gains and losses on ship sales, impairment charges, restructuring expenses and other non-core gains and charges are not part of our core operating business and are not an indication of our future earnings performance.
Therefore, we believe it is more meaningful for gains and losses on ship sales, impairment charges, restructuring expenses and other non-core gains and charges to be excluded from our net income and earnings per share and, accordingly, we present adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share excluding these items.
The increase was caused by: $626 million 4.5% increase in constant currency net revenue yields $381 million 2.9% capacity increase in ALBDs These increases were partially offset by foreign currency impacts including both foreign currency translational and transactional impacts, which accounted for $44 million.
The 4.5% increase in net revenue yields on a constant currency basis was due to a 4.9% increase in net passenger ticket revenue yields and a 3.4% increase in net onboard and other revenue yields.
The 4.9% increase in net passenger ticket revenue yields was driven primarily by price improvements in our Caribbean, European and Alaska programs for our North America segment and European programs for our EAA segment, partially offset by decreases in our China programs.
This 4.9% increase in net passenger ticket revenue yields was comprised of a 5.7% increase from our North America segment and a 3.3% increase from our EAA segment.
The 3.4% increase in net onboard and other revenue yields was caused by similar increases in our North America and EAA segments.
Gross cruise revenues increased by $1.1 billion, or 6.9%, to $17.3 billion in 2017 from $16.2 billion in 2016 for largely the same reasons as discussed above.
Net cruise costs excluding fuel increased by $427 million, or 5.6%, to $8.1 billion in 2017 from $7.7 billion in 2016.
The increase was caused by: $222 million 2.9% capacity increase in ALBDs $216 million 2.7% increase in constant currency net cruise costs excluding fuel 53 These increases were partially offset by: $12 million foreign currency impacts including both foreign currency translational and transactional impacts Fuel costs increased by $329 million, or 36%, to $1,244 million in 2017 from $915 million in 2016.
This was driven by higher fuel prices, which accounted for $313 million.
Gross cruise costs increased, by $1.2 billion, or 10%, to $12.6 billion in 2017 from $11.4 billion in 2016 for largely the same reasons as discussed above and the impairment of ships, which accounted for $304 million.
2016Comparedto2015 Revenues Consolidated Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 74% of our 2016 total revenues.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues increased by $489 million, or 4.2%, to $12.1 billion in 2016 from $11.6 billion in 2015.
This increase was caused by: $404 million 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs $138 million an accounting reclassification in our EAA segment, which has no impact on our operating income as the increase in passenger revenues is fully offset by an increase in operating expenses accounting reclassification $114 million slight increase in occupancy $40 million increase in cruise ticket revenue, driven primarily by price improvements in Caribbean and Alaskan programs for our North America segment and Mediterranean and North European programs for our EAA segment, partially offset by net unfavorable foreign currency transactional impacts These increases were partially offset by foreign currency translational impact, which accounted for $215 million.
The remaining 26% of 2016 total revenues were substantially all comprised of onboard and other cruise revenues, which increased by $181 million, or 4.7%, to $4.1 billion in 2016 from $3.9 billion in 2015.
This increase was caused by: $135 million 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs $55 million higher onboard spending by our guests $38 million slight increase in occupancy These increases were partially offset by foreign currency translational impact, which accounted for $46 million.
Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues that decreased by $43 million, or 4.0%, to $1.0 billion in 2016 from $1.1 billion in 2015.
NorthAmericaSegment Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 72% of our North America segments 2016 total revenues.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues increased by $289 million, or 4.1% to $7.3 billion in 2016 from $7.0 billion in 2015.
This increase was substantially due to: $92 million net increase in cruise ticket revenue, driven primarily by price improvements in Caribbean and Alaskan programs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency transactional impacts 54 $67 million slight capacity increase in ALBDs $58 million increase in air transportation revenues from guests who purchased their tickets from us $53 million slight increase in occupancy The remaining 28% of our North America segments 2016 total revenues were comprised of onboard and other cruise revenues, which increased by $100 million, or 3.7%, to $2.8 billion in 2016 from $2.7 billion in 2015.
This increase was substantially due to: $52 million higher onboard spending by our guests $26 million slight capacity increase in ALBDs $21 million slight increase in occupancy Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues that decreased by $46 million, or 6.1%, to $701 million in 2016 from $747 million in 2015.
EAASegment Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 82% of our EAA segments 2016 total revenues.
Cruise passenger ticket revenues increased by $214 million, or 4.6%, to $4.8 billion in 2016 from $4.6 billion in 2015.
This increase was caused by: $344 million 7.5% capacity increase in ALBDs $138 million the accounting reclassification $69 million 1.5 percentage point increase in occupancy These increases were partially offset by: $215 million foreign currency translational impact $66 million decrease in air transportation revenues from guests who purchased their tickets from us $59 million decrease in cruise ticket revenue, driven by unfavorable foreign currency transactional impacts The remaining 18% of our EAA segments 2016 total revenues were comprised of onboard and other cruise revenues, which increased by $56 million, or 5.4%, to $1.1 billion in 2016 from $1.0 billion in 2015.
The increase was caused by a 7.5% capacity increase in ALBDs, which accounted for $77 million, partially offset by foreign currency translational impact, which accounted for $46 million.
Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues that slightly increased to $332 million in 2016 from $329 million in 2015.
CostsandExpenses Consolidated Operating costs and expenses decreased slightly by $64 million and remained at $9.4 billion in 2016 and 2015.
This decrease was caused by: $377 million lower fuel prices of $354 million and improved fuel consumption of $23 million $136 million foreign currency translational impact $57 million lower dry-dock expenses These decreases were partially offset by: $324 million 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs 55 $138 million the accounting reclassification $36 million slight increase in occupancy Selling and administrative expenses increased by $130 million, or 6.3%, to $2.2 billion in 2016 from $2.1 billion in 2015.
This increase was caused by: $72 million 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs $46 million various selling and administrative initiatives $40 million litigation settlements These increases were partially offset by foreign currency translational impact, which accounted for $28 million.
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $112 million, or 6.9%, to $1.7 billion in 2016 from $1.6 billion in 2015.
This increase was due to changes in capacity and improvements to existing ships and shoreside assets.
Total costs and expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 81% in 2016 from 84% in 2015.
The three percentage point decrease in our total costs and expenses as a percentage of revenues was driven by lower fuel prices in 2016 compared to 2015.
NorthAmericaSegment Operating costs and expenses decreased by $152 million, or 2.6%, to $5.6 billion in 2016 from $5.8 billion in 2015.
This decrease was caused by: $239 million lower fuel prices of $221 million and improved fuel consumption of $18 million $22 million lower dry-dock expenses These decreases were partially offset by: $55 million slight capacity increase in ALBDs $53 million higher air costs $20 million the nonrecurrence of a gain on a litigation settlement in 2015 Selling and administrative expenses increased by $80 million, or 7.0%, to $1.2 billion in 2016 from $1.1 billion in 2015.
This was caused by various selling and administrative initiatives, which accounted for $69 million.
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $63 million, or 6.3%, to $1.1 billion in 2016 from $1.0 billion in 2015.
Total costs and expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 78% in 2016 from 81% in 2015.
EAASegment Operating costs and expenses increased by $82 million, or 2.4%, to $3.5 billion in 2016 from $3.4 billion in 2015.
56 This increase was caused by: $257 million 7.5% capacity increase in ALBDs $138 million the accounting reclassification $22 million 1.5 percentage point decrease in occupancy $21 million higher ship port costs These increases were partially offset by: $136 million foreign currency translational impact $132 million lower fuel prices $67 million higher air costs $34 million higher dry-dock expenses Selling and administrative expenses slightly decreased by $4 million to $691 million in 2016 from $695 million in 2015.
Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $38 million, or 6.8%, to $599 million in 2016 from $561 million in 2015.
This increase was caused by: $42 million 7.5% capacity increase in ALBDs $22 million improvements to existing ships and shoreside assets These increases were partially offset by foreign currency translational impact, which accounted for $26 million.
Total costs and expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 82% in 2016 from 83% in 2015.
OperatingIncome Our consolidated operating income increased by $497 million, or 19%, to $3.1 billion in 2016 from $2.6 billion in 2015.
Our North America brands operating income increased by $398 million, or 22%, to $2.2 billion in 2016 from $1.8 billion in 2015, and our EAA brands operating income increased by $153 million, or 16%, to $1.1 billion in 2016 from $938 million in 2015.
NonoperatingExpense Losses on fuel derivatives, net were comprised of the following in millions : YearsEnded November30, 2016 2015 Unrealized gains losses on fuel derivatives....................................... $ 236 $ 332 Realized losses on fuel derivatives, net............................................ 283 244 Losses on fuel derivatives, net.................................................. $ 47 $ 576  Net cruise revenues increased by $564 million, or 4.4%, to $13.4 billion in 2016 from $12.8 billion in 2015.
57 The increase in net cruise revenues was caused by: $446 million 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs $519 million 3.9% increase in constant currency net revenue yields These increases were partially offset by foreign currency impacts, which accounted for $402 million.
The 3.9% increase in net revenue yields on a constant currency basis was due to a 4.5% increase in net passenger ticket revenue yields and a 2.3% increase in net onboard and other revenue yields.
The 4.5% increase in net passenger ticket revenue yields was driven primarily by improvements in our Alaskan and Caribbean programs for our North America segment and Mediterranean and North European programs for our EAA segment and 1.1 percentage points of this yield increase resulted from the accounting reclassification.
The 4.5% increase in net passenger ticket revenue yields was caused by a 5.4% increase from our North America segment and a 3.7% increase from our EAA segment.
The 2.3% increase in net onboard and other revenue yields was caused by a 2.8% increase from our North America segment and a 1.7% increase from our EAA segment.
Gross cruise revenues increased by $671 million, or 4.3%, to $16.2 billion in 2016 from $15.5 billion in 2015 for largely the same reasons as discussed above.
Net cruise costs excluding fuel increased by $274 million, or 3.7%, to $7.7 billion in 2016 from $7.4 billion in 2015.
The increase in net cruise costs excluding fuel was caused by a 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs, which accounted for $258 million, partially offset by foreign currency impacts, which accounted for $107 million.
The 1.6% increase in constant currency net cruise costs excluding fuel per ALBD was principally due to higher repair and maintenance and dry-dock partially offset by a 1.5 percentage point increase that resulted from the accounting reclassification.
Fuel costs decreased by $334 million, or 27%, to $915 million in 2016 from $1.2 billion in 2015.
This was caused by lower fuel prices, which accounted for $354 million and improved fuel consumption, which accounted for $23 million, partially offset by a 3.5% capacity increase in ALBDs, which accounted for $44 million.
Gross cruise costs slightly decreased by $69 million and remained at $11.4 billion in 2016 and 2015 for principally the same reasons as discussed above.
Liquidity,  Our primary financial goals are to profitably grow our cruise business and increase our ROIC, reaching double digit returns, while maintaining a strong balance sheet and strong investment grade credit ratings.
We define ROIC as the twelve-month adjusted earnings before interest divided by the monthly average of debt plus equity minus .
Our ability to generate significant operating cash flow allows us to internally fund our capital investments.
We are committed to returning free cash flow to our shareholders in the form of dividends and or share repurchases.
As we continue to profitably grow our cruise business, we plan to increase our debt level in a manner consistent with maintaining our strong credit metrics.
This will allow us to return both free cash flow and incremental debt proceeds to our shareholders in the form of dividends and or share repurchases.
Other objectives of our capital structure policy are to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity with our available cash and cash equivalents and committed financings for immediate and future liquidity needs, and a reasonable debt maturity profile.
58 Based on our historical results, projections and financial condition, we believe that our future operating cash flows and liquidity will be sufficient to fund all of our expected capital projects including shipbuilding commitments, ship improvements, debt service requirements, working capital needs and other firm commitments over the next several years.
We believe that our ability to generate significant operating cash flows and our strong balance sheet as evidenced by our investment grade credit ratings provide us with the ability, in most financial credit market environments, to obtain debt financing.
We had a working capital deficit of $7.2 billion as of November 30, 2017 compared to a working capital deficit of $5.4 billion as of November 30, 2016.
The increase in working capital deficit was mainly due to the increase in our net current portion of our borrowings and customer deposits and a decrease in cash and cash equivalents.
We operate with a substantial working capital deficit.
This deficit is mainly attributable to the fact that, under our business model, substantially all of our passenger ticket receipts are collected in advance of the applicable sailing date.
These advance passenger receipts remain a current liability until the sailing date.
The cash generated from these advance receipts is used interchangeably with cash on hand from other sources, such as our borrowings and other cash from operations.
The cash received as advanced receipts can be used to fund operating expenses, pay down our debt, invest in long term investments or any other use of cash.
Included within our working capital deficit are $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion of customer deposits as of November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
In addition, we have a relatively low-level of accounts receivable and limited investment in inventories.
We generate substantial cash flows from operations and our business model has historically allowed us to maintain this working capital deficit and still meet our operating, investing and financing needs.
We expect that we will continue to have working capital deficits in the future.
SourcesandUsesofCash OperatingActivities Our business provided $5.3 billion of net cash from operations during 2017, an increase of $188 million, or 3.7%, compared to $5.1 billion in 2016.
This increase was caused by an increase in our revenues less expenses settled in cash.
During 2016, our business provided $5.1 billion of net cash from operations, an increase of $589 million, or 13%, compared to $4.5 billion in 2015.
This increase was caused by more cash being provided from our operating results.
InvestingActivities During 2017, net cash used in investing activities was $3.1 billion.
This was caused by: Capital expenditures of $1.4 billion for our ongoing new shipbuilding program Capital expenditures of $1.5 billion for ship improvements and replacements, information technology and buildings and improvements Payments of $203 million of fuel derivative settlements During 2016, net cash used in investing activities was $3.3 billion.
This was caused by: Capital expenditures of $1.9 billion for ongoing new shipbuilding program Capital expenditures of $1.2 billion for ship improvements and replacements, information technology and buildings and improvements Payments of $291 million of fuel derivative settlements During 2015, net cash used in investing activities was $2.5 billion.
This was caused by: Capital expenditures of $981 million for our ongoing new shipbuilding program Capital expenditures of $1.3 billion for ship improvements and replacements, information technology and buildings and improvements Payments of $219 million of fuel derivative settlements 59 FinancingActivities During 2017, net cash used in financing activities of $2.5 billion was substantially due to the following: Net repayments of short-term borrowings of $29 million in connection with our availability of, and needs for, cash at various times throughout the period Repayments of $1.2 billion of long-term debt Issuances of $100 million of long-term debt under a term loan Proceeds of $367 million of long-term debt under an export credit facility Payments of cash dividends of $1.1 billion Purchases of $552 million of Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares in open market transactions under our Repurchase Program During 2016, net cash used in financing activities of $2.6 billion was substantially due to the following: Net proceeds from short-term borrowings of $447 million in connection with our availability of, and needs for, cash at various times throughout the period Repayments of $1.3 billion of long-term debt Issuances of $555 million of euro-denominated publicly-traded notes, which net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes Proceeds of $987 million of long-term debt Payments of cash dividends of $977 million Purchases of $2.3 billion of shares of Carnival Corporation common stock and $35 million of Carnival plc ordinary shares in open market transactions under our Repurchase Program During 2015, net cash used in financing activities of $942 million was substantially due to the following: Net repayments of short-term borrowings of $633 million in connection with our availability of, and needs for, cash at various times throughout the year Repayments of $1.2 billion of long-term debt Issuances of $1.3 billion of publicly-traded notes, which net proceeds were used for generally corporate purposes Net proceeds of $697 million of long-term debt Payments of cash dividends of $816 million Purchases of $276 million of shares of Carnival Corporation common stock in open market transactions under our Repurchase Program Purchases of $257 million and sales of $264 million of treasury stock under our Stock Swap program  PaymentsDueby in millions 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total Debt a.................................. $2,381 $2,262 $1,445 $1,242 $1,107 $ 1,653 $10,090 Other long-term liabilities reflected on the balance sheet b................................ - 136 83 66 58 189 532 Shipbuilding.............................. 2,919 3,819 3,569 2,628 2,357 - 15,292 Operating leases........................... 49 47 43 34 32 170 375 Port facilities and other...................... 190 182 162 157 151 926 1,768 Purchase obligations........................ 379 ---- - 379 .......... $5,918 $6,446 $5,302 $4,127 $3,705 $ 2,938 $28,436 a Includes principal as well as interest payments.
b Represents cash outflows for certain of our long-term liabilities which can be reasonably estimated.
The primary outflows are for estimates of our compensation plans obligations, crew and guest claims and 60 certain deferred income taxes.
Customer deposits and certain other deferred income taxes have been excluded from the table because they do not require a cash settlement in the future.
Our total annual capital expenditures consist of ships under contract for construction and estimated improvements to existing ships and shoreside assets which are expected to be: in billions 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Total annual capital expenditures.................................. $4.5 $5.0 $4.8 $3.9 $3.6 The year-over-year percentage increases in our annual capacity are expected to result primarily from contracted new ships entering service and are currently expected to be: 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Annual Capacity increase a..................................... 1.9% 5.5% 7.4% 7.5% 3.9% a These percentage increases include only contracted ship orders and dispositions.
Under a share repurchase program effective 2004, we are authorized to repurchase Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares the Repurchase Program.
On April 6, 2017, the Boards of Directors approved a modification of the general authorization under the Repurchase Program, which replenished the remaining authorized repurchases at the time of the approval to $1.0 billion.
The Repurchase Program does not have an expiration date and may be discontinued by our Boards of Directors at any time.
In addition to the Repurchase Program, we have programs that allow us to obtain an economic benefit when either Carnival Corporation common stock is trading at a premium to the price of Carnival plc ordinary shares or Carnival plc ordinary shares are trading at a premium to Carnival Corporation common stock the Stock Swap Programs.
For example: In the event Carnival Corporation common stock trades at a premium to Carnival plc ordinary shares, we may elect to sell shares of Carnival Corporation common stock, at prevailing market prices in ordinary brokers transactions and repurchase an equivalent number of Carnival plc ordinary shares in the UK market.
In the event Carnival plc ordinary shares trade at a premium to Carnival Corporation common stock, we may elect to sell ordinary shares of Carnival plc, at prevailing market prices in ordinary brokers transactions and repurchase an equivalent number of shares of Carnival Corporation common stock in the U. S. Any realized economic benefit under the Stock Swap Programs is used for general corporate purposes, which could include repurchasing additional stock under the Repurchase Program.
During 2017, there were no sales or repurchases under the Stock Swap Programs.
During 2016, under the Stock Swap Programs, a subsidiary of Carnival Corporation sold 0.9 million of Carnival plc ordinary shares for net proceeds of $40 million.
Substantially all of the net proceeds from these sales were used to purchase 0.9 million shares in 2016 of Carnival Corporation common stock.
Any sales of Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares have been or will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
At November 30, 2017, we had liquidity of $14.2 billion.
Our liquidity consisted of $124 million of cash and cash equivalents, which excludes $271 million of cash used for current operations, $2.5 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities, net of our outstanding commercial paper borrowing, and $11.6 billion under our committed future financings, which are substantially all comprised of ship export credit facilities.
These commitments are from numerous large and well-established banks and export credit agencies, which we believe will honor their contractual agreements with us.
in millions 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Availability of committed future financing at November 30, 2017.. $2,075 $2,668 $3,015 $2,951 $928 61 At November 30, 2017, all of our revolving credit facilities are scheduled to mature in 2021, except for $300 million which matures in 2020.
Substantially all of our debt agreements contain financial covenants as described in the consolidated financial statements.
At November 30, 2017, we were in compliance with our debt covenants.
In addition, based on, among other things, our forecasted operating results, financial condition and cash flows, we expect to be in compliance with our debt covenants for the foreseeable future.
Generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, substantially all of our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due, and all debt and derivative contracts could be terminated.
 We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
 For a discussion of our hedging strategies and market risks, see the discussion below and the consolidated financial statements.
  We have foreign operations that have functional currencies other than the U. S. dollar, which result in foreign currency translational impacts.
We execute transactions in a number of currencies other than their functional currencies, which result in foreign currency transactional impacts.
S. dollar functional currency operations assets and liabilities instead of the November 30, 2017 U. S. dollar exchange rates, our total assets would have been lower by $1.4 billion and our total liabilities would have been lower by $699 million.
As of November 30, 2017, we have foreign currency swaps of $324 million which settle through September 2019.
These foreign currency swaps are designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign operations, which 62 have a euro-denominated functional currency, thus partially offsetting the foreign currency exchange rate risk.
Based on a 10% change in the U. S. dollar to euro exchange rate as of November 30, 2017, we estimate that these foreign currency swaps fair values and offsetting change in U. S. dollar value of our net investments would change by $33 million.
 At November 30, 2017, we have foreign currency zero cost collars that are designated as cash flow hedges for a portion of euro-denominated shipyard payments for the following newbuilds: Weighted-Average Weighted-Average EnteredInto Maturesin FloorRate CeilingRate Carnival Horizon............. 2016 March 2018 $1.02 $1.25 Seabourn Ovation............ 2016 April 2018 $1.02 $1.25 Nieuw Statendam............. 2016 November 2018 $1.05 $1.25 If the spot rate is between the ceiling and floor rates on the date of maturity, then we would not owe or receive any payments under these collars.
The volatility in the spot rates within the ceiling and floor rates will result in fluctuations in ship costs.
At November 30, 2017, the estimated fair value of our outstanding foreign currency zero cost collars was a $11.6 million asset.
Based on a 10% increase or decrease in the November 30, 2017 euro to U. S. dollar exchange rates, we estimate the fair value of our foreign currency zero cost collars liability would decrease $68.3 million or increase $10.3 million, respectively.
At November 30, 2017, our remaining newbuild currency exchange rate risk primarily relates to eurodenominated newbuild contract payments, which represent a total unhedged commitment of $6.8 billion and substantially all relates to newbuilds scheduled to be delivered 2019 through 2022 to non-euro functional currency brands.
The functional currency cost of each of these ships will increase or decrease based on changes in the exchange rates until the unhedged payments are made under the shipbuilding contract.
We may enter into additional foreign currency derivatives to mitigate some of this foreign currency exchange rate risk.
Based on a 10% change in euro to U. S. dollar exchange rates as of November 30, 2017, the remaining unhedged cost of these ships would have a corresponding change of $680 million.
Based on a 10% change in the November 30, 2017 market interest rates, our annual interest expense on floating rate debt, including the effect of our interest rate swaps, would change by an insignificant amount.
Substantially all of our fixed rate debt can only be called or prepaid by incurring additional costs.
FuelPriceRisks Our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices substantially all relates to the consumption of fuel on our ships.
We expect to consume approximately 3,315 million metric tons of fuel in 2018.
Based on a 10% change in 63 fuel prices versus the current spot price that was used to calculate fuel expense in our December 19, 2017 guidance, we estimate that our adjusted diluted earnings per share December 19, 2017 guidance would change by the following: $0.21 per share on an annualized basis for 2018 $0.05 per share for the first quarter of 2018 Based on a 10% change in Brent prices versus the current spot price that was used to calculate realized gains losses on fuel derivatives in our December 19, 2017 guidance, we estimate that our adjusted diluted earnings per share December 19, 2017 guidance would change by the following: $0.05 per share on an annualized basis for 2018 $0.01 per share for the first quarter of 2018 Our most recent zero cost collar contract was executed in 2014.
At November 30, 2017, our zero cost collars cover a portion of our estimated fuel consumption through 2018.
At November 30, 2017, the unrealized losses on our outstanding fuel derivative contracts were $94 million.
Based on a 10% increase or decrease in the November 30, 2017 Brent forward price curve, we estimate the fair value of our fuel derivatives net liability would decrease $31.5 million or increase $34 million, respectively.
