British Empire Trust plc 17 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW Joe Bauernfreund Joe is Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer of AVI.
Joe has been British Empires named portfolio manager since 1 October 2015, continuing the natural progression that has seen only three portfolio managers at British Empire in the last 30 years.
Performance Your Company returned 18.8% during the financial year to 30 September 2017 which is 2.5% ahead of its benchmark the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index.
Key contributors to investment performance were AP Alternative 3.3%, Wendel 2.3%, Investor AB 1.7%, JPEL Private Equity 1.4% and Aker 1.3%.
There were two detractors of note over the period: Hudsons Bay -1.8% and Pershing Square -1.0%.
Portfolio Commentary It has been a remarkable year in many respects.
Equity markets have now extended the rally following the financial crisis to eight years, with many markets reaching all-time highs during 2017.
September marked th the 11 successive month of gains for the MSCI All Country World Over the financial year the total net asset value Index in USD terms, which ranks as the second longest period of return was 18.8%.
consecutive gains for the index since its formation in 1969.
What makes these statistics so remarkable is the fact that, over Joe Bauernfreund the course of the past 12 months, we have experienced extreme Chief Investment Officer political uncertainty: heightened geopolitical tensions: as well as the prospect of the end of Quantitative Easing and the start of interest rate normalisation.
However, although broad equity market valuations are NAV 10 YEAR TOTAL RETURN GROWTH PER SHARE generally elevated compared to their historical levels, bulls will point to low bond yields as support for equity markets.
So are we due a correction?
% 85.0 Like everyone else, we do not know with any certainty the answer to this question, nor can we predict if or when markets will decide WEIGHTED AVERAGE DISCOUNT that risk has been mis-priced and trigger a fall.
What we do know, Weighted average discount to NAV in portfolio however, is that our investment philosophy has been tried and tested Percentage discount to NAV with some success over a 30-year period, and that sensibly sticking to 40% our framework of investing will likely lead to good long-term investment 35% returns.
With this in mind, there are several observations about your Companys portfolio that are relevant in formulating a view about the 30% prospects for future returns.
25% There are three key determinants of returns for an investor in British Empire.
Two of them relate to the specifics of our investment strategy 20% our focus on companies trading at discounts to NAV whilst the 15% third relates to the currency effects of having a Sterling-based fund that invests largely in overseas companies.
Sept 07 Sept 09 Sept 11 Sept 13 Sept 15 Sept 17 Source Estimated by Asset Value Investors.
In focusing on companies trading at discounts to NAV, the two most important drivers of returns will be changes in NAV and changes in the discount.
When considering an investment, we focus on both aspects of return.
Changes in NAV will largely, but not solely, be a function of both earnings and the multiples applied to them by the market, whilst the change in discount can be impacted by shareholder activism and the occurrence of corporate events.
The effect of activism on discounts is an independent variable and not driven by market valuations.
18 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW We pointed out last year that we were confident about the prospective returns from your Companys portfolio given the 32% weighted average discount, combined with the potential for discount contraction arising from corporate events.
It is, therefore, pleasing to be able to report this year that a number of key contributors to performance owe their strong performance to corporate events.
These are discussed in detail in coming pages, but we would highlight AP Alternative, Better Capital 2009, DWS Vietnam Fund and Aker ASA as particular beneficiaries of this theme.
Each saw their discounts disappear or narrow substantially from the levels at which the investments were made.
In addition, in several cases it was our own efforts to engage constructively with boards that initially led to the narrowing of the discount.
This type of shareholder activism is an important source of return for us.
Q&A JOE BAUERNFREUND Today, the portfolio discount stands at 26%.
Whilst that is six percentage points narrower than one year ago, it is still very much What are the types of company that you wider than the 10% level observed in 2006, which provides some Q are looking to find particular value in?
guidance for where discounts could ultimately reach.
In addition, the Our focus is entirely on company trading prospect of continued corporate activity and events at many portfolio at discounts to NAV and we only invest in companies could result in us realising these investments on zero or companies where we see potential for the low single digit discounts, as was the case in three of the examples discount to narrow and for the NAV to grow cited in the previous paragraph.
In our view, there is a very real strongly.
The types of company we focus on prospect therefore of further discount compression within the existing include family-controlled holding companies, portfolio.
This is an important consideration when assessing the closed-end funds and other asset-backed prospective returns from the current holdings.
Turning now to the NAV side of the equation, the considerations are Describe the double discount as we would more complex, as value will often be determined by reference to Q know it in the sector.
market valuations and, if these are highly rated, then it follows that Many investment trusts trade at a discount to the NAV applied to our investments may also be overpriced.
We deal NAV and indeed British Empire shares trade at a with this by focusing on corporate events that are likely to realise discount of c. 10% currently.
In addition to this, value over a period of time, and by owning high-quality businesses the portfolio of companies we own also trades that will likely grow in value over the long run.
The portfolio today at discounts.
The double discount simply refers contains a number of companies that are planning on selling assets or to the combined effect of both these discounts.
restructuring businesses in the coming year, and we expect the effect of this to be reflected in the NAV and the discount.
Examples of this What are you trying to communicate to include Wendel selling a number of its private assets, EXOR working Q potential and current shareholders about the on unlocking value from Fiat Chrysler, JPEL Private Equity continuing prospects for the Company over the next year to realise its portfolio and Symphony selling down part of its listed or probably even longer?
These last two will most likely return the cash proceeds to This Annual Report contains a thorough analysis shareholders.
The sale of assets by holding companies, particularly of the performance of the portfolio over the past of unlisted assets which are not always accurately valued by many year and also describes some of the potential investors, could unlock hidden value and provide an unanticipated drivers of performance in the forthcoming year.
In summary, the portfolio continues to trade at a wide discount level: the prospect of ongoing Reflecting on your Companys portfolio using this analytical framework corporate activity will likely drive discounts gives us confidence that the portfolio is in good shape.
There is much into narrower levels: we are finding attractive value to be unlocked from corporate events and shareholder activism opportunities to invest in around the world: and and, whilst we are not immune from the vagaries of equity markets, our high-conviction, concentrated portfolio is we do believe that this portfolio is more attractively valued than the well placed to benefit from these trends.
To what extent does your view on the In addition, our global remit means that we are free to evaluate Q macro-economic environment influence your opportunities around the world, and we are not forced to buy investment decisions?
companies in a particular sector or region irrespective of their valuation We are bottom-up stock-pickers.
The portfolio of 30 core positions gives the Company exposure our primary focus is on identifying companies to hundreds of underlying companies around the world.
These span that we believe are mispriced by the market and a variety of countries, sectors and industries.
We constantly aim which offer the potential for strong returns.
This to balance the upside potential from corporate events via discount is more important to our investment philosophy contraction, with a focus on absolute valuation levels.
Mindful of and process than attempting to invest based the general rise in multiples, this year has seen an important shift upon forecasts of currencies and growth rates.
in the portfolio: the weighting in Japan at the year end was almost 20%, whereas it was less than 10% one year ago.
co. uk News behind the increased exposure to Japan are rooted in valuations.
Features Research  British Empire Trust plc 19 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Japan has a number of characteristics that make it a compelling Look-through country exposure investment opportunity.
From a valuation perspective, it is the 2017 one major global stock market where we are able to find many % companies trading on cheap valuations.
In addition, Japanese United Kingdom 1.1 company managements are coming under increasing pressure to North America 19.9 improve corporate governance and boost shareholder returns.
To Europe 32.0 capitalise on both of these factors, we have created a basket of Asia 17.4 companies that trade on extremely cheap valuations.
Our basket Japan 18.0 makes up 7.3% of the overall portfolio and contains over a dozen Latin America, Africa companies that have a substantial proportion of their market cap & Emerging Europe 7.8 in net cash.
This is a play on the theme of improved corporate Other 3.8 governance in Japan.
The potential upside to shareholders from improved balance sheet efficiency amongst these companies is Based on location of companies substantial.
In the four months since we established the basket, underlying assets.
it has outperformed the TOPIX by 11.0% and risen by 9.2% in Sterling.
Further comment on this can be found on page 30.
Equity portfolio value In addition to the basket investment, we are also taking a more by market capitalisation proactive approach to engagement with management in Japan.
2017 2016 % % Amongst some of the larger holdings, we have been communicating with boards and making suggestions for ways to improve 1 billion 43.8 45.7 governance and balance sheet management.
We are hopeful 1 billion 5 billion 23.6 39.8 that this constructive engagement will yield positive results for 5 billion 10 billion 13.0 2.0 all shareholders.
10 billion 19.6 12.5 The final piece in the return picture was the effect of currencies.
The weakening Pound in the months following the Brexit vote in June 2016 contributed to your Companys returns in the 2016 financial year.
Over the past 12 months, the Pound has been a volatile currency reflecting the ongoing uncertainty over Brexit and its impact on the UK economy, as well as other macroeconomic events affecting countries around the world.
Whilst the Pound trades at far lower levels than it did before the Brexit referendum, over the past Portfolio value by sector 12 months it has strengthened against the major currencies to which 2017 2016 this portfolio is exposed, and thus the overall impact of currencies % % was to reduce Sterling returns by almost 4%.
It is not our policy to Investment Holding hedge currency risk and thus changes in the level of the Pound will Companies 43.9 39.1 continue to have an effect on your Companys returns.
Investment Companies 42.5 39.5 Asset-backed Companies 13.6 21.4 Given the foregoing portfolio characteristics, the investment team at AVI remain convinced that the opportunities across our investment universe are compelling.
Consequently, your Company has been fully invested throughout the past 12 months and has been utilising most of the debt available to it.
Today, the portfolio is 105% invested.
In addition, the portfolio continues to be managed in a high conviction, concentrated manner.
The top ten holdings make up 47% of the portfolio, compared to 55% one year ago and 41% two years ago.
A number of positions were fully exited during the year Source Asset Value Investors.
often following some form of corporate event.
The proceeds have been reinvested into existing holdings, as well as a number of new investments.
In the pages that follow, we describe the investment theses behind some of the main contributors to performance, as well as the two major investments that have not delivered positive returns over the period.
