Strategic report Financial review Strong core growth and record cash generation Strong core business ex-Consumer Electronics volumes up 15% The strong growth in our core business offset the expected year on year impact of significantly lower Consumer Electronics volumes.
Total Group sales volume of 3,992 tonnes was 1% ahead of the prior year 2016: 3,952 tonnes.
Excluding volumes from the large Consumer Electronics order, core business growth was over 15% ahead.
Our second half year saw a tougher comparative, reflecting that volumes from the large Consumer Electronics order were heavily H2weighted during 2016.
Despite this challenge, H2 2017 Group volumes of 2,133 tonnes were only 2% lower than the second halfof 2016 H2 2016: 2,182 tonnes, underlining the strength anddiversity in our core business.
Our Industrial division VPS reported revenues of 236.3m, 17% ahead of the prior year 2016: 201.5m, supported by currency.
Market growth was broad based, with Automotive, Electronics ex-Consumer, Value Added Resellers driven partly by indirect business into the Louisa Burdett Automotive and Industrial markets and Energy being particularly Group Finance Director strong, offsetting a weaker performance in Aerospace in the second half of this year, principally driven by phasing of new models.
Medical Invibio revenues were 53.9m, 6% ahead of the prior Strong growth in our core business year 2016: 50.8m, reflecting currency.
Whilst the US Spine offset the expected impact of marketremains mature, progress outside of the US in Europe, as significantly lower Consumer wediversify our Medical business away from just being US focused, continues to bepositive.
Spine revenue overall was down 1% although Electronics volumes.
we enjoyed good progress with our next generation Spine product, TM PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced, which delivered over 1m of revenue this year.
We anticipate further growth and progress towards our next milestone in 2018.
2017 2016 Group revenue 290.2m 252.3m Alternative performance measures Group profit before tax 111.0m 100.3m We use alternative performance measures to assist in presenting information in an easily comparable, analysable and comprehensible Cash 120.1m 64.0m form.
The measures presented in this report are used by Earnings per share 116.4p 96.8p management in evaluating performance and are as follows: Dividend per share u Group metrics excluding Consumer Electronics are referred regularandspecial dividend 121.80p 46.82p to as core, i. e. core volumes, core revenue and core business: u Group revenue in constant currency, which is reached by applying current year FY 2017 effective currency rates to prior year FY 2016 transactions see note 21 : u Operating cash conversion cash generated from operations operating profit : u Sales from new products sales from new grades sold from FY 2014 onwards : u Return on sales PBT revenue : and u Dividend cover earnings per share total dividend per share.
This excludes the special dividend.
Financial statements Pages 78 to 104 14 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Strong core business Automotive performed well again this year.
However, ourstrategy also offers the opportunity to capture a higher Revenue 15% ahead: 3% ahead in constantcurrency value shareofeach application rather than just the material share.
Group revenue for 2017 was 290.2m, 15% ahead of the prior year Remaining focused on growing absolute profits, rather than solely 2016: 252.3m.
Group revenue in constant currency was 3% ahead focusing on thegross margin percentage, remains a priority for Victrex.
of the prior year 2016: 282.8m in constant currency.
Sales from new products one of our strategic KPIs were 10.7m, or4% of Group revenues.
Our aspiration is to drive sales from new products up to Profit before tax up 11% and EPS 20% ahead 1020% of Group revenues over the medium term.
Thisincludes sales Group profit before tax PBT of 111.0m was 11% up on the prior from our mega-programmes and new differentiated polymer grades year 2016: 100.3m.
PBT in constant currency removing the effect sales from new products includes new grades or semi-finished products of the Groups profit linked bonus scheme, which did not pay out in which commenced commercialisation from FY2014 onwards.
2016 was down approximately 2%, driven by the higher cost of manufacture and higher investment in the business during the year.
Currency benefiting pricing Basic earnings per share of 116.4p was 20% ahead 2016:96.8p, Our Average Selling Price ASP of 72.70 kg was ahead of the principally reflecting the associated benefit to the Groups tax rate prior year 2016: 63.80 kg, principally reflecting currency benefits.
following Victrex filing patents to reflect its unique chemistry and Mix, withmuch lower Consumer Electronics volumes, offset intellectual property IP which qualified for the UK governments byamuted performance in Medical and a higher proportion Patent Box scheme.
ofValueAdded Resellers business, remained similar to 2016.
Underlying pricing in the core business remains broadly stable, Volatile currency but still supportive for 2018 withproduct mix being an important driver.
Competitive pressure Currency provided a benefit of approximately 18m to our 2017 remains, however, and our focus on differentiation and value added profits, weighted approximately 30:70 in H1 and H2.
As a UK-based semi-finished products will be a key driver of maintaining price over exporter, and with a significant global revenue exposure, Victrex the coming years.
Excluding Consumer Electronics volumes and the hedges currency up to 12 months in advance.
We are mindful impact of foreign currency, our ASP in 2017 was 65 kg 2016: 68 thatSterling has been re-rating over recent months against some kg, which reflects a higher proportion of Value Added Resellers and ofour selling currencies, meaning the benefit for 2018 will be lower a muted performance in Medical.
All hedging placed for 2018 is based onpost-Brexit deals.
With over 80% hedging now in place for 2018, Looking into 2018, with a further, but reduced, benefit from currency, theanticipated currency benefit is expected to be more than 10m.
our expectations are for full-year ASP to be slightly ahead of 2017.
Brexit Gross margin Management continues to consider the potential impact of Brexit Group gross margin of 63.3% 2016: 62.9% was marginally ahead onits business.
Based on our assessment of the available information, ofthe prior year, but slightly lower than our full-year expectations the largest risk is a sustained period when the Group may not be able particularly given favourable currency movements.
Two factors to import certain raw materials or export finished goods through contributed to this.
Firstly, during 2017, there was a strong ramp Customs, which could curtail sales if regional inventory levels were inhigher than anticipated demand during our second half and, after depleted.
To mitigate such a risk, the Group is assessing additional adegree of downsizing in the earlier part of the year, the business global warehousing and the potential opportunities from measures needed to deploy additional resource quickly back into our operations to improve import and export processes, such as Authorised Economic team to meet this growth.
This inevitably led to some inefficiencies in Operator status.
In the short term, Brexit has provided, and continues ramp up and the need for air freighting of material.
The impact of to provide, a currency benefit.
If Sterling remains weak, this upside thison the margin should not reoccur.
Secondly, and as previously could compensate for any additional tariffs.
However, at this stage, communicated, our strategy involves a transition to a higher cost of there remains considerable uncertainty as to the overall net impact manufacture as we develop differentiated polymers and new grades on the business from Brexit after March 2019.
The Directors focus and products to support our mega-programmes and semi-finished on Brexit is to ensure that the Group remains in the best position products.
This will continue to be a feature of our business model.
toensure continuity of supply on raw materials and access for our products to key markets.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 15 Strategic report Financial review continued Investment for growth Our world-class 10m Polymer Innovation Centre was completed this year.
Cost focus: support front-end investment Progress in our development pipeline Victrex remains fully focused on being cost competitive in our Victrex has a strong core application development pipeline.
As communicated earlier in the year, we are corebusiness, we benefited from some new and incremental evaluating some potential cost opportunities in our supply chain, applications during the year.
These include home appliance applications whilst ensuring that we retain the differentiators in our polymer in Electronics, business machines and fluid handling systems in chemistry and manufacturing process.
Manufacturing & Engineering which reports under Energy & Other Industrial.
New and incremental applications in thewider Electronics As we move further downstream to add semi-finished and finished market offer us good medium-term opportunities.
products to our portfolio, we will continue to invest to drive the burden of proof for these products.
In our medium to longer-term pipeline, Victrex has six mega-programmes of Dental, Victrex Pipe Magma, Trauma, Knee, Gears and Aerospace Overheads were up 24% to 72.7m 2016: 58.4m which reflects Loaded Brackets, as well as some smaller opportunities such as higher front-end investment, as well as the Groups profit growthPEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced for the Spine market.
linked bonus scheme and LTIPs which did not pay out during 2016.
The Group also incurred 2.0m of restructuring costs from business Good progress was made this year in Gears, where we have a first supply reorganisation during the first half of 2017.
Research & Development agreement to a major European automotive manufacturer starting in investment was 14.5m 2016: 14.1m, representing approximately early 2018.
Thanks to the capabilities we acquired through the Kleiss 5% of Group revenue.
Gears acquisition, we are able to design, develop and manufacture gears.
With a number of other Gear development programmes also underway with major car manufacturers and in the industrial space, we anticipate Investment to support long-term growth further progress, working in partnership, which will limit the need During the year we announced an investment in a new joint venture, for significant capital outlay and could reduce development time, whilst TxV Aero Composites, where Victrex and Tri-Mack Plastics will team ensuring that Victrex retains the IP for development.
up to manufacture, at scale, differentiated Loaded Brackets for the Aerospace market.
We anticipate the capital investment, for a new US Aerospace Loaded Brackets also saw progress thanks to our manufacturing facility, will be in the region of 10m, with approximately TxVAeroComposites joint venture.
Our AE 250 composites half committed during 2017, alongside some incremental overhead arepre-qualified with the major aerospace manufacturers and investment.
Construction of our new facility and recruitment to development of our US parts manufacturing facility is well underway.
support it is progressing well.
Commissioning is on track for the Whilst our PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced programme in Spine is now second half of 2018, with the first parts available for supply.
a major programme reflecting the long-term cannibalisation of existing PEEK-OPTIMA products progress has been good this year, Victrex also announced the acquisition of Zyex, a UK-based PEEK fibres with28global approvals and first meaningful revenues of over business, for approximately 10m.
Zyex is recognised as a global leader 1mdelivered slightly ahead of schedule.
in the manufacture of PEEK fibres for the Aerospace, Industrial and Automotive markets.
Examples of product applications include fuel Our other mega-programmes of Magma, Trauma, Dental and Knee filters for Automotive and food processing belts for Industrial.
We have continue to progress.
Magmas long-term proposition remains strong, made good progress integrating Zyex and are focused on improving although the immediate focus continues on revenue from test orders or efficiency within the business, as well as the significant opportunity pipe for intervention or jumper lines.
The focus in our Trauma, Dental and to build this new product form as a platform to translate globally.
Knee programmes is on partnerships and collaborations to deliver market access, and we are closing in on a major OEM agreement in Dental.
Our other recent investments were in Magma our Oil & Gas mega-programme where we acquired a minority equity stake: and in our world-class Polymer Innovation Centre at our UK headquarters, Strong balance sheet whichsupports the ability to scale up or test new polymer grades Our strong balance sheet supports growth investment and provides orapplications a key role for our downstream Polymer & Parts strategy security of supply to our customers.
and supports process improvement for existing products.
M&A, joint Net assets at 30 September 2017 totalled 478.4m 2016: 389.1m.
ventures, acquisitions or organic investments remain very much in focus Our defined benefit DB pension scheme was closed to future and with our cash resources we will continue toconsider appropriate accrual in March 2016.
We continue to work closely with the pension investments which can help accelerate progress in our pipeline.
trustees on fide-risking pension outcomes.
During the year, we have For organic investment, our expectations of medium-term capital shifted investment from equities into diversified growth funds and expenditure in the 25m35m per annum range are unchanged, liability-driven instruments which align our DB investment strategy butin the short term we anticipate this will now be closer to more closely with the profile and volatility of the scheme liabilities.
Total capital expenditure for the year was16.7m 2016: 25.9m.
16 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Dividend per ordinary share Cash and cash equivalents Pence m 120 120 80 80 40 40 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Regular dividend Special dividend Stock levels were at 61.5m 2016: 61.8m, reflecting strong expenditure reducing from historic levels, and reflecting the post-tax demand alongside some of the early efficiency benefits from our benefit to earnings and cash from Patent Box, the opportunities for ERP system being implemented.
For the medium term, we continue to see some opportunities to Victrex plc, the Parent Company of the Group Parent Company, reduce our inventory levels, but remain mindful of the requirements, isa non-trading investment holding company which derives its in the near term, to support the early development of more differentiated distributable reserves from dividends paid by subsidiary companies.
Many of these differentiated polymers and downstream Thelevel of distributable reserves in the Parent Company is reviewed products, including parts, require either minimum volume bi-annually, aligned to the Boards review of the proposed interim production campaigns or some initial stock build.
TheBoard aims to maintain distributable reserves that provide adequate cover for dividend distributions.
Victrex's Revolving Credit Facility RCF, which expired in September Distributable reserves equate to the balance on the profit and loss 2017, was replaced with a 5 year bank facility of 40m, 20m account reserve, whichat30 September 2017 equates to 132.1m.
The facility was undrawn at year end.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative, providing sufficient funds to invest and with which to fund its dividend.
The Groups Continued strong cash generation continuing viability and going concern are detailed on page 27.
Cash generated from operations was 137.4m 2016: 96.0m TheBoards ability to maintain the above dividend policy will be representing an operating cash conversion cash generated from influenced by a number of the principal risks identified on pages 24 operations operating profit of 124% 2016: 96%.
The risks that could have the largest impact on the dividend withno debt at 30 September 2017 was up 88% to 120.1m policy are those identified for sensitivity analysis in the viability statement, 2016: 64.0m.
primarily core business growth, foreign currency risk, business continuity This record cash performance was driven by a combination of strong of supply chain and future business growth.
Mitigation plans against all trading, lower capital expenditure and favourable working capital these risks are outlined within the risk section.
Working capital improved due to receivables moving For the full year, with Group profit before tax increasing by 11% toa more normalised level, following the weighting of Consumer andearnings per share increasing by 20%, the regular dividend will Electronics volumes in Q4 2016. increase by 15% to 53.80p 2016: 46.82p and will be supplemented by In June 2017 we paid the interim dividend of 12.20p per share.
a special dividend of 68.00p, following our cash balance reaching Combined with the final 2016 dividend, paid in February 2017, arecord 120.1m.
The special dividend of 68p share equates to a payout thesetotalled 40.4m 2016 dividends paid: 39.9m.
The calculation to arrive at this payout excludes cash earmarked for investment in our TxV Aero Composites joint venture.
Taxation Total dividends for the year were 121.80p 2016: 46.82p.
The effective tax rate for the year was 10.4% 2016: 17.7%.
Thisreflects the associated benefit of a materially lower UK tax rate, Audit tender process following Victrex filing patents as part of its unique chemistry and The process to appoint a new external auditor took place IPwhich qualified under the UK governments Patent Box scheme, duringtheyear and we are pleased to have announced which incentivises Research & Development investment in the UK.
As  LLP PwC as our auditor starting from previously communicated, the patents, based on our unique chemistry, our 2018 financial year subject to approval at the 2018 AGM.
The are expected to provide an associated benefit to our tax rate, resulting Board is grateful to KPMG for its lengthy service to Victrex.
in a normalised tax rate of approximately 12% from 2018.
The lower rate during 2017 reflects the additional patent boxdeduction relating Outlook back to the date the patent application wasmade during 2016.
Looking forward, we have started our new financial year with positive growth momentum.
Whilst Sterling has strengthened over recent months, Dividends currency is still supportive for the year ahead, although not at the levels Growth investment remains our top priority, whether that is capital seen in 2017.
We remain focused on driving growth, on cost efficiency expenditure or M&A, joint ventures or partnerships.
Our capital and making progress in delivering our Polymer & Parts strategy.
allocation policy is to grow the regular dividend broadly in line with earnings, whilst maintaining cover around 2x.
After this, and subject to no additional growth investment, Victrex will return around 50% of the net cash balance to shareholders, via a special dividend Louisa Burdett subject to a 50p share minimum level.
The threshold for payment Group Finance Director ofa special dividend is approximately 85m of net cash.
With capital 5 December 2017 Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 17 43.00 45.15 50.00 46.82 46.82 53.80 68.00 Strategic report Performance review Executive Directors reports Shaping future performance Tim Cooper Martin Court Executive Director Executive Director Industrial Medical Industrial Victrex Polymer Solutions Industrial Victrex Polymer Solutions revenue Industrial saw a strong and broad based performance from the 236.3m 17% corebusiness.
Industrial Victrex Polymer Solutions gross profit 135.5m 19% Whilst the Group manages and reports its performance through the Industrial VPS and Medical Invibio divisions, we continue to provide a market-based summary of our performance and growth opportunities within our two reporting segments.
Our Industrial business VPS delivered revenue of 236.3m 2016: 201.5m, 17% ahead of the prior year, supported by currency.
Gross profit was up 19% on the prior year, with gross margin at 57.3% 2016: 56.7%, offset by the business having to quickly deploy additional resources back into our operations team, to meet core growth.
The Industrial business saw significantly lower volumes from the large Consumer Electronics order, but a strong and broad-based performance from the core business to replace these volumes.
This resulted in a similar pricing mix, as Value Added Reseller business remained strong this year.
Energy & Other Industrial Energy & Other Industrial which includes Manufacturing & Engineering reported sales volume of 555 tonnes, which was 14% ahead of the prior year 2016: 485 tonnes, with Oil & Gas up 15% overall.
Victrex saw good year on year improvement, although parts of the Oil & Gas market continue to be challenging and capital expenditure in the industry has not yet returned to levels seen earlier this decade.
In our Magma Oil & Gas mega-programme, our 10m equity investment helped establish a pipe rental model, whereby operators can choose to lease a flexible pipe-based unit for intervention orjumper pipe activities.
Our investment has also helped to driveinitial adoption of the value proposition of m-pipe.
18 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Havingsecuredfirst meaningful revenue for the Magma 12grams of PEEK per vehicle over the medium term, compared mega-programme in 2016, revenue this year was slightly down, toapproximately 8 grams today.
although Magma is in active discussions for further trial or Victrexs value proposition is not just focused in the internal engagement programmes with operators alongside recent combustion engine ICE platform.
The potential from electric deployments with the likes of ENI and we believe the longer-term vehicles EVs, whilst still emerging, with slot liners and other opportunity remains attractive.
We also anticipate growth from applications, remains significant.
PEEKs properties of durability, theMagma opportunity during 2018.
The emerging Manufacturing chemical, electrical and heat resistance play well here.
Whilst EV &Engineering M&E area yielded some good results this year, with opportunities remain at a very early stage, early indications suggest new orincremental applications in fluid handling, process systems and a potential for over 100 grams per EV application, and with more the internet of things.
This is a market area we will continue to add value rather than simply volume business, we continue to work focus to, and one which has helped drive our core business growth on several differentiated products in this area.
Our Gears mega-programme has made good progress this year and reflects the demand for lower noise, vibration and harshness `NVH, Value Added Resellers where PEEK Gears based on Victrex HPG PEEK can offer a 50% Value Added Resellers VARs is an area we continue to focus on, performance benefit compared to metal gears, as well as the trend and one which has helped drive our core business growth this year.
for CO reduction through weight and inertia reduction, and quicker VARs combines a mix of long-term Channels business, where 2 manufacturing compared to metal.
A supply agreement for PEEK Gears processors or compounders are using our materials for part or with a major European car manufacturer commences in early 2018 component manufacturing, together with more variable demand and we have also added new development programmes with several requirements.
Because of the fragmented nature of the industrial major car manufacturers.
We are focused on driving this mega-programme supply chain, once PEEK and our polymers have been specified by towards ameaningful 1m revenue stage duringthe2018 2019 end users, full clarity on the exact route to market for all of our period.
Partnering with others to support awider manufacturing polymer business is not always possible.
The VARs segment reflects roll-out and reduce development time whilstretaining the IP and this and our sales volume of 1,688 tonnes was 21% ahead of last development know-how will be a key partofthis programme.
year 2016: 1,398 tonnes, as processors and industrial customers continued to benefit from the growth opportunities within the high Aerospace performance polymer market.
In Aerospace, translation opportunities for our existing products in brackets, fasteners and other applications remains strong, although Transport phasing ofnew platform build rates meant a second half slowdown Our Transport markets overall continue to perform well as the this year in certain models, leading to volumes declining by 5%.
We megatrends of lightweighting, CO reduction, durability, comfort remain positive for medium-term growth prospects as build rates 2 andheat resistance support growth.
Sales volumes increased 7% to and the use of composites increase.
Lightweighting and the ability to 929tonnes 2016: 869 tonnes, primarily driven by the strong reduce manufacturing cycle time by up to 40% is a key selling point performance in Automotive, with a slightly weaker performance for our PEEK and PAEK polymers.
Beyond this, our differentiated TM inAerospace this year, primarily in the second half.
polymer grades, such as our AE250 low-melt version, continue toprogress, alongside our focus on product forms such as film and Automotive parts such asour Aerospace Loaded Brackets opportunity.
In Automotive, growth was particularly strong, with volumes up 11%.
Our core applications continue to offer good global translation We formed our TxV Aero Composites joint venture this year, with opportunities, and across manufacturers, in braking systems and Tri-Mack Plastics, to build a new manufacturing facility in the US, transmission and chassis applications.
Victrex PEEK is predominantly supporting a differentiated and protectable Loaded Brackets product, located within the vehicle powertrains and, with a long track record following pre-qualification for our PEEK composites last year.
here, our focus is to increase the average volume to approximately Electronics Electronics was a very strong performer this year, despite the significant decline in Consumer Electronics resin volumes.
Total volumes were down 36% to 626 tonnes 2016: 977 tonnes, but excluding the lower year on year volumes from the large Consumer Electronics order, Electronics volumes were over 40% ahead.
This principally reflects an improved performance in semiconductor, in Aptiv film and in some emerging applications for home appliances and other consumer related areas.
For the large Consumer Electronics order, our current planning assumption, and based on some initial volumes supplied, is that our PEEKwill be used on smartphone models during 2018.
At this early stage, volumes are anticipated to be in a similar range to those delivered in 2017.
We continue to work hard to secure differentiated product opportunities across the major device manufacturers.
Regional trends In our regions, Europe was up 8%, with 2,155 tonnes 2016:1,987tonnes, reflecting the strength in Transport, ValueAdded Resellers and Industrial markets.
Asia-Pacific was down19%to 1,049 tonnes 2016: 1,303 tonnes principally from lower Consumer Electronics, whilst US volumes were 19% ahead at Opportunities in Electronics 788 tonnes 2016: 662 tonnes principally reflecting the improvement We are exploring new application opportunities.
inthe Energy market and Value Added Resellers.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 19 Strategic report Performance review Executive Directors reports continued Medical vision We aspire to treat a patient with Invibio solutions every 1520 seconds.
Medical Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Medical Invibio revenue Our premium and differentiated TM PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced 53.9m 6% product made good progress this year, delivering over 1m Medical Invibio gross profit ofmeaningful revenue.
48.3m 9% Our Medical business performed steadily during the year, principally reflecting the maturity of the US Spine market, with the US accounting for nearly two thirds of our Medical revenues.
Europe performed well, with revenues increasing by 13%.
Overall, Invibio revenue, including the benefit of currency, was up 6% at 53.9m 2016: 50.8m, although it was down in constant currency.
Medical market overview Spine accounts for around two thirds of our Medical revenues.
Witha lack of material growth in the number of US spinal procedures, market growth in recent years has remained muted.
This is now a mature market where PEEK has a good position andremains the material of choice in spinal fusion surgery, but incremental innovation is required to drive growth, offsetting the mature phase of the product lifecycle and some competition from Titanium in one very specific application expandable cages.
20 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Our premium and differentiated PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced Mega-programmes product made good progress this year, delivering over 1m of Whilst Dental sales remain below the 1m meaningful revenue revenue by the third quarter, slightly ahead of schedule.
This threshold, we are closing in on a major OEM agreement, and product, which offers improved bone-on growth and enhanced haveother opportunities, to gain enhanced market access and clinical benefit, now has 28 global approvals and whilst it will distribution, and to help drive adoption.
Our focus is on establishing cannibalise some of our existing Spine product, the opportunity the clinical value of our solutions in order to be attractive to partners, forglobal translations is attractive.
We are focused on moving and to gain wider market access through partnerships and distribution.
revenue beyond 1m and delivering further growth in 2018, We now have 5 year clinical data in implant borne prosthetics, and including a focus on product launches in Asia.
support from our collaboration with the Malo Clinic in Portugal, TM which reported successful performance data for JUVORA last year.
Medical remains well placed in both the US and other geographic With a 99% satisfaction rate based on comfort and fit for patients markets on a medium to longer-term basis, although adoption of using our Juvora dental disc, our focus is on using strong clinical new applications can be slow.
During the year we communicated evidence and building enhanced marketaccess.
our vision to treat a patient every 1520 seconds with Invibio solutions in 810 years compared to approximately every 35 seconds today.
Last year we commissioned our Trauma manufacturing facility, enabling As well as being a materials supplier, our in-house regulatory us to have the ability to meet initial demand.
These products offer expertise and positioning with supportive clinical evidence will help the potential for 50x better fatigue resistance compared to a metal us to drive our existing programmes and new business, including in plate in the body.
Collaboration or development agreements remain Dental, Trauma and Knee programmes.
in focus, particularly with innovators or smaller players.
Recent clinical trial data demonstrated that PEEK composites proved 100% For our emerging business opportunities, our focus is on market successful in healing high risk trauma patients with distal femur adoption, whether through support data and clinical evidence fractures, whereas metal plates suffered breakage and only 75% tovindicate these programmes or engagement with Key Opinion ofpatients successfully healed.
The awareness of composites as a Leaders and market influencers.
viable metal alternative is growing and during the year we entered into a number of ongoing development agreements with small innovative players.
Our focus is on market adoption, In Knee, we successfully completed all preparations for the Maxx whether through support data and Orthopedics clinical trial, with patient recruitment set to commence.
With 1 in 5 patients dissatisfied with their knee surgery, typically clinical evidence or engagement using metal based solutions, patient demand for non-metal based with Key Opinion Leaders.
solutions offer significant potential in this $8bn global market.
Ourpartnership with Maxx Orthopedics provides a good platform tosupport our long term aspirations.
Differentiated product Our next generation Spine product performed well this year.
Image courtesy of Meditech Spine Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 21 Strategic report Risk management Risk management is embedded in Victrexs culture, ensuring that we assess risks as part ofdelivering our strategy.
1 RISK AGENDA 4 RISK COMMUNICATION 2 RISK ASSESSMENT 5 RISK GOVERNANCE 3 RISK RESPONSE Analysis and recording of risks RISK AGENDA Executive managers take ownership of specific business risks.
Thelikely causes andconsequences of each risk are recorded.
1 Why do we undertake riskmanagement?
Eachrisk is evaluated based on its likelihood of occurrence and severity of impact on strategy, profit, regulatory compliance, reputation and or people.
Risks are evaluated at both a gross and a Risk objectives net level, i. e. before and after the effect of mitigation.
All risks are The Board is responsible for determining thenature and extent of positioned on a risk-ranking matrix.
This approach allows the the risks it is willing to take in delivering Victrexs strategy as identification and consistent evaluation of significant risks, as well as setouton pages 6 to 9. consideration of the effect of current lines of defence in mitigation.
Victrex undertakes risk management to improve understanding We look at three lines of defence: of the actual and potential risks to our business as well as the resilience, performance, sustainability and success of its business, 1st: The day to day controls and processes put in place by management.
toenable it to assess and respond to new opportunities as they 2nd: Activities to advise and oversee first-line controls and ariseand to provide fair and balanced information to shareholders processes and risk management processes, often at least one step and .
removed from first-line direct management.
This is particularly important as the business continues to move 3rd: Independent business assurance provided by both third downstream into semi-finished products, finished products and parties and in-house internal audit over the effectiveness of the components and as it drives market adoption of the mega-programmes.
Groups system of internal controls and processes in first and secondlines of defence.
Risk strategy The Board is responsible for creating the framework for the Groups Re-evaluation and challenge ofrisks risk management to operate effectively.
This risk management We seek to keep the risk registers up to date and relevant to our framework includes risk assessment, response, communication strategic objectives.
The risk registers are regularly reviewed, and governance.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that challenged and debated.
Risks are escalated as appropriate.
appropriate and proportionate resources are allocated torisk management activities.
During the year the eight principal risks were reviewed in accordance with the risk management policy.
By assessing the components of each principal risk it was considered appropriate to redefine two of the original risks and as a result the two were RISK ASSESSMENT separated into three as can be seen on pages 24 and 26.
The 2 How do we assess andrecordrisks?
Whilst there are now nine principal risks the overall risk profile of the Company remains unchanged.
When assessing risk, we consider: external factors, including environmental, social and u governance ESG factors arising from the environment in whichwe operate: and internal factors arising from the natureof our business, u internalcontrolsand processes.
22 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report The Companys management is responsible for the identification, RISK RESPONSE assessment, management and monitoring of risk and for developing, operating and monitoring the system of internal control.
3 How do we respond torisks?
The Audit Committee receives reports from management on the effectiveness ofthosesystems it has established.
For each risk, we decide whether to tolerate it, mitigate it through The Risk and Compliance function supports the Audit Committee in further control, transfer it e. g. through insurance or terminate the its review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control, as threat to the business.
does the external auditor on matters identified during the course of We continually challenge the efficiency and effectiveness of itsstatutory audit work.
existinginternal controls andalways seek to improve our risk management framework.
ELT Risk Management Committee The Executive Leadership Team ELT RiskManagement Committee, The risk owners and the Risk and Compliance team allocate a status chaired bytheGroup Finance Director, reviews the corporate risk rating ofappropriateness and effectiveness against each line of register at least half yearly to ensure it remains relevant to the defence.
This allows the risk register to record and track changing uncertainties which have the potential to impact our thecompletion of improvement recommendations.
During the year feedback from these reviews was provided directly to the Audit Committee and the Board by the Group Finance Director, to the former in respect RISK COMMUNICATION oftherisk management systems and to the latter in respect oftheprincipal risks in the corporate risk register.
The ELT Risk 4 Effective communication Management Committee comprises the ELT membership and theDirector of Risk and Compliance.
At Victrex, our risk management structure is as follows: Risk management subcommittees Victrex plc Board Risk management subcommittees exist for business unit functional The Board undertakes reviews of the effectiveness of the risk levels.
These meet and report up to the ELT Risk Management management framework, policy and procedures and supported Committee at least half yearly via their respective chairs, who are bytheAudit Committee approves the risk management policy.
ELT Risk Management Committee members.
A more comprehensive review of effectiveness includes consideration Projects of the continued effective integration of risk management and internal Where it is appropriate, projects will have aproject-specific risk controls with the corporate strategic objectives and business model, register which will bereported to the relevant business unit.
changes to and completeness of the principal risks and their management, the robustness of the embedded risk management processes and culture which underpin the quality of the reporting received by the Board, consideration of any significant control failings or RISK GOVERNANCE weaknesses and the strength of our public reporting process.
5 How do we evaluate andprovide assurance Twice yearly, the Board carries out a comprehensive assessment of the overour management of risks?
principal risks, including evaluating the level of risk it isprepared to accept in pursuit of Victrexs strategic objectives.
In Victrex, the processes in place to support therisk governance The corporate risk register is consolidated from registers within business component of our risk management framework include the following: functions and projects.
The corporate risk register tracks the status ratings against each line of defence and the action plan, therefore u For Board and internal audit, see pages 48 and 53 respectively.
allowing it to be used effectively as a record of the completion of risk u The chairman of each of the risk management subcommittees improvement actions and their revised likelihood and impact.
communicates significant output, activities and emerging and evolving risks to the meetings of the ELT Risk Management Audit Committee Committee, which reviewsthese and the risks in the corporate The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are explained on pages risk register.
The three lines ofdefence model is recognised as 51 and 52.
These responsibilities include reviewing the Companys risk best practice in relation to risk governance, and its inclusion on management systems.
Therisk management system is primarily designed the face of our corporate risk register enhances the governance to mitigate risk down to an acceptable level, rather than completely aspect of our risk management framework.
eliminate the risk, and the review can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of effective operation, compliance with laws and regulations and against material misstatement or loss.
