246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp29-pp47 GOV 15 12 2017 13:24 Page 47 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 47 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Governance Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and responsibility of the AIFM.
The work carried out by the Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and integrity of these websites and, accordingly, the Auditors regulations.
accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on Company law requires the directors to prepare financial these websites.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation have prepared the financial statements in accordance with and dissemination of financial statements may differ from United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 legislation in their jurisdictions.
The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Under company law the Directors must not approve the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing pages 26 and 27 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: these financial statements, the Directors have: the financial statements, which have been prepared in selected suitable accounting policies and then applied accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted them consistently: Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting made judgements and accounting estimates that are Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, reasonable and prudent: and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the followed applicable UK Accounting Standards, subject to assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company for the year ended 30 September 2017: and financial statements respectively: and the Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and the prepared the financial statements on a going concern Report of the Directors include a fair review of the basis.
11R of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy On behalf of the Board at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Anthony Townsend Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Chairman prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
14 December 2017 The Financial Statements are published on the Companys website www.
com and via the website of the AIFM www.
The maintenance and integrity of these websites, so far as it relates to the Company, is the FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
