Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BOARD GOVERNANCE continued financial and operational controls and compliance with laws Following all investor presentations and meetings, feedback is ACCOUNTABILITY and regulations.
passed to the Board on any opinions or concerns expressed by shareholders.
The Directors receive regular updates on shareholder Financial and business reporting views, roadshow feedback as well as analysts reports on market Internal controls over financial reporting The Strategic Report on pages 16 to 47 describes the business perception of the Groups performance and strategy, and are The Groups financial reporting process has been designed to model and strategy whereby the Company generates and made aware of the financial expectations of the Group from the provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the preserves value over the long term and delivers the objectives of outside market.
The Board also receives an investor perception financial reporting and preparation of Financial Statements, the Company.
study to identify shareholders concerns and actions undertaken for including consolidated Financial Statements, for external purposes its resolution.
A Statement of the Directors Responsibilities in respect of the in accordance with IFRS.
The annual review of the effectiveness of Financial Statements is set out on page 95 and a statement the Groups system of internal controls included reviews of systems The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director regarding the use of the going-concern basis in preparing these and controls relating to the financial reporting process.
are available to meet shareholders on request, and ensure that Financial Statements is provided in the Directors Report on the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through Internal controls over financial reporting include procedures and page 94. other communication mechanisms.
The Chairman and the Senior policies that: Independent Non-Executive Director provide feedback to the Board Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail Risk management and internal control on any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposals of the The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in providing Groups assets products and services to its clients.
The Board is responsible for AGM establishing the overall appetite for these risks, which is detailed Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to communicate and approved in the Risk Appetite Statement.
The Board has as necessary to permit the preparation of Financial Statements with private and institutional investors, and we welcome and and that receipts and expenditures are being made only responsibility for ensuring the maintenance of the Groups risk encourage their participation at the meeting.
The Chairman aims in accordance with authorisations of management and management and internal control systems and for annually to ensure that all the Directors, including the Chairs of the Board respective Directors reviewing them.
Committees, are available at the AGM to answer questions.
The Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 2016 AGM was a successful event attended by all the Directors.
The framework under which risk is managed in the business is detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposal of All the proposed resolutions were passed on a poll, with the supported by a system of internal controls designed to embed the Group assets that could have a material effect on the Groups percentage of votes in favour of each resolution ranging from effective management of the firms key business risks throughout Financial Statements 93.18% to 100%.
The risk management and internal controls systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The 2017 AGM will be held on 21 September 2017.
The Notice achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and REMUNERATION of the AGM sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The responsibility for determining remuneration arrangements meeting.
A copy of the Notice is available on the Companys for the Chairman and Executive Directors has been delegated to website iggroup.
We send the Annual Report and Notice to Through reports from the Board Risk Committee and the Audit the Remuneration Committee.
Information on the Remuneration shareholders, or make them available on the Groups website, at Committee, consideration of the ICAAP, ILAA and Recovery Committee and the Directors Remuneration Report and Policy can least 20 working days before the date of the meeting.
The Notice Plan, the Board regularly reviews and monitors the Groups risk be found on pages 62 to 81. sets out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed at management and internal controls systems and the effectiveness the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions with which it manages the principal risks faced by the Group.
and, if they are unable to attend, can submit written queries in The Directors confirm that the Board has carried out a robust ENGAGEMENT WITH advance of the meeting.
After the meeting, we will make available assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including to shareholders full details of the votes including proxy votes those that would threaten its business model, future performance, SHAREHOLDERS received on each resolution, and we will publish these on the solvency and liquidity.
We outline the risks to which the Group is The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good and Companys website on the same day.
exposed and our framework under which risk is managed, including constructive communication with the Companys shareholders, and a description of its system of internal controls, in the Business has in place a comprehensive programme to facilitate this each year.
Model and Risk Profile section on pages 24 to 27 and in the Risk Our Annual Report is an important medium for communicating Management and Viability Statement section on pages 35 to 42. with shareholders, setting out detailed reviews of the business and An annual formal review of the effectiveness of the Groups system its future developments in the Company Overview and Strategic of risk management and internal controls has been carried out by Report sections.
the Board to support the statements included in the Annual Report In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an and Accounts.
The review focused on the overall risk governance understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular framework and the setting of IGs risk appetite.
It considered the key dialogue with institutional investors and shareholders, presentations risk assessment and monitoring activities across the firm, as well as by management and Investor Roadshows around the time of the processes and controls in place to manage the firms principal the Groups year-end and half-year results announcements.
Our risks and for escalating exceptions highlighted by risk management Investor Relations team coordinates these.
No weaknesses or control failures significant to the are available on the Groups website iggroup.
com, which also Group were identified.
provides a wide range of other information to shareholders and There are risk management and internal controls systems in place prospective shareholders.
We also respond to ad hoc requests from for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks facing shareholders on a regular basis.
the Group, in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, in his capacity Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and the Executive published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Directors hold meetings with the Companys largest institutional Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, the Group shareholders and market analysts to discuss governance has operated a system of internal controls that provides reasonable developments including in respect of external and internal assurance of effective operations covering all controls, including remuneration policy, business strategy and financial performance.
| | 58 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 59 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE Following the completion of three years in office, the Committee Andy Green, Chairman of the Nomination Committee, gives his review of the Committees Role of the Nomination Committee also agreed to recommend to the Board and in turn the Board The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee include: activities during the financial year.
agreed my continued appointment as Chairman of the Board for a Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board Committees further three years from 9 June 2017. to ensure that they are appropriately balanced in terms of skills, CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW knowledge, diversity and experience Committee evaluation The Nomination Committee undertakes an important role in Ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent identifying, sourcing and evaluating the combination of skills During the year, an evaluation of the performance of the Committee procedure for the appointment of new Directors needed to lead the Group at and immediately below Board level, and its members was undertaken in line with the Committees Terms and in supporting the development and delivery of our strategy.
Identifying and nominating for approval by the Board suitable of Reference.
The evaluation process was externally facilitated by candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise Lintstock Limited as part of the overall annual Board effectiveness It is responsible for identifying and recommending to the Board, review, details of which can be found on page 57.
The performance Keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group, with suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, and ensures the of the Committee was positively rated overall, succession planning a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to Boards composition meets the Companys needs.
was highlighted as a focus for the coming year and the evaluation compete effectively in its marketplace concluded that the Committee operates effectively.
This year, and following an extensive search, the Committee agreed Keeping up to date about strategic issues and commercial to recommend to the Board the appointment of Paul Mainwaring as changes affecting the Group and the market in which it operates Chief Financial Officer.
Paul was appointed to the Board on Diversity statement The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the 20 July 2016.
As a business, we are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce Groups website, iggroup.
at all levels across the Company, and more information on how we The Committee also increased its focus on succession planning do this can be found in the Supporting Our People section, starting at Board and executive management level.
Following initial Main activities during the financial year on page 44. discussions, it has been agreed to invest in a senior management The Committees main focus has been on overseeing the selection development programme designed to ensure management develop Andy Green The Directors recognise the importance of gender diversity on the process and appointment of the Chief Financial Officer, on changes the right balance of knowledge, skills and experience to become Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board and understand the significant benefits that come with having to the Chairmanship of the Board Risk Committee, on extensions credible Executive Director candidates in due course.
The Board believes that diversity is a wider issue of Non-Executive Director terms of appointment and on succession than gender and includes variations in experience, skills, personal planning at Board and senior management level.
Committee membership and attendance attributes and background.
The Board currently has a 25% female representation, and has an aspirational target to increase this to one The Committee consists of Independent Non-Executive Directors, As reported last year the Committee concluded its search for a third by 2020, as recommended by the Hampton-Alexander Review and meets as necessary to discuss appointments to the Board.
The new Chief Financial Officer.
Spencer Stuart and Russell Reynolds, on women in leadership positions.
Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Committee and executive search firms with no other connections with the Company, the Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee.
were engaged, following a selection process.
Their role was to The Board will continue to appoint on merit, based on the skills On invitation, the Chief Executive Officer also attends, but is not assist with the search for a suitable candidate who was able to and experience required for membership of our Board, while giving involved in decisions relating to his own succession.
The Head of demonstrate outstanding finance and leadership credentials in a consideration to gender and other forms of diversity when the Human Resources also attends on invitation.
high-quality, regulated financial services business.
Committee reviews the Boards composition.
For appointments Paul Mainwaring was appointed as Chief Financial Officer to the Board, IG uses executive search firms who have signed up During the year, the Committee met four times, principally to designate on 11 July 2016, and formally appointed to the Board on to the voluntary code of conduct setting out the key principles of consider Board composition and succession planning.
20 July 2016 following receipt of relevant regulatory approvals.
best practice in the recruitment process.
These principles include a recommendation that search firms should consider gender diversity On 27 September 2016 we announced to the market that Eligible to and IG insists on having both male and female candidates when Committee member Attended Sam Tymms had been appointed as Chairman of the Board Risk attend drawing up longlists and shortlists of candidates.
Committee following the decision of Stephen Hill to step down from the role.
Sam brings Andy Green 4 4 a wealth of regulatory experience to the role.
Stephen chaired the Board Risk Committee from its inception in 2014 and through a Malcolm Le May 4 4 period of significant change and growth for the Group.
Stephen Hill 4 4 Following the expiration of six years as a Non-Executive Director, Jim Newman 4 4 and following a rigorous review during which the Committee took account of the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, Sam Tymms 4 4 Andy Green Stephen agreed to extend his appointment to the Board for a Chairman, Nomination Committee June Felix 4 4 further year.
The Committee has also begun a detailed review of succession 18 July 2017 planning requirements at Board and senior executive management levels.
It has had open and transparent dialogue with the Chief Executive Officer on his views, and has sought advice and support from the Head of Human Resources, the Head of Organisational Development and external consultants.
This has enabled production of a comprehensive plan designed not only to identify talent but also to put in place personal development plans, ensuring that any internal candidates are able to develop the skills and experience required to meet the requirements of future roles for which they are identified as candidates.
| | 60 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 61 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY IG has delivered another strong year of growth, leading to record The Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure remuneration encourages, reinforces revenues, profit and client numbers.
Our product offering has also and rewards the delivery of shareholder value.
seen growth and the share dealing platform continues to attract new customers supporting our overall strategy.
We have acquired certain DailyFX assets and are seeing improving client conversion.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Most recently we have launched our Investments offering.
We have On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors also expanded our operational hubs in Poland and India.
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May 2017 and the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Incentive outcomes for 2017 The overall structure of the executive remuneration package and Since 2013, the Companys Executive Directors have participated the principles that underpin it remained unchanged in the 2017 in a single incentive scheme, the sustained performance plan SPP financial year.
which measures performance over annual and trailing three-year periods.
The SPP replaced both the previous annual bonus and Directors Remuneration Policy long-term incentive plans.
Our Directors Remuneration Policy, that has been in place since The year to 31 May 2017 is therefore the fourth year of the June 2013, was approved in a binding vote by over 96% of our Executives variable remuneration being awarded under the SPP.
shareholders at the AGM in 2014.
The policy is due for its triennial Similar to the prior years SPP, the 2017 award is driven by three renewal at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee has reviewed the policy measures: Diluted Earnings Per Share DEPS, Total Shareholders in preparation for the vote, and following consultation with major Return TSR and non-financial measures presented in more detail shareholders has determined that the existing policy continues to in the Directors Remuneration Policy beginning on page 64.
In meet the needs of the Company and the reasonable expectations of respect of the annual and trailing three-year performance for the Malcolm Le May its shareholders.
Accordingly no material changes are proposed.
period ended 31 May 2017, the Committee has awarded 27.1% of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee However, there are a number of external factors which may the maximum potential award under the SPP compared with 90% influence the Directors Remuneration Policy in the medium term, in the prior year.
The overall SPP outcome is lower than last year as including: the strategic implications for IG of the FCAs review of a result of the EPS performance against target and due to the zero Our remuneration report covers the remuneration of the regulation in the contracts for difference market and other reviews vesting of the long-term trailing TSR component.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors of IG Group Holdings plc being undertaken by other regulators: developments in executive the Company and the Group and is organised into the following The Company has set out an extensive explanation of the pay market practice and other stakeholder views and guidelines.
main sections: judgments it has made in determining the above awards.
This Therefore, although the Committee has proposed a renewal of the disclosure is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW 62 existing policy at the 2017 AGM without material change, we may page 72.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY 64 need to return to shareholders for a further policy vote during the next two years, once the full implications of the external factors ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 72 Implementation of policy in 2017 18 referred to above are known.
The Committee has determined that the base salary of the STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION Chief Executive Officer, Peter Hetherington and the POLICY ANDSINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION 72 Annual Report on Remuneration for the year to Chief Financial Officer, Paul Mainwaring remains unchanged at 31 May 2017 the 1 June 2017 review date.
There also will be the usual advisory vote at this years AGM with For 2017, the Committee will use the same SPP measures described regards to this annual Committee Chairmans statement and the above, with the same weightings.
Accordingly, annual DEPS will Annual Report on Remuneration, that detail amounts paid in respect drive 45% of the maximum potential award, with relative TSR of the year ended 31 May 2017 and the corresponding performance measured over the trailing three years and annual non-financial metrics, targets and outcomes.
I hope you agree that the way we metrics accounting for 35% and 20% respectively.
have rewarded our Executives is commensurate with the Groups performance and that you will support this years resolutions at the In relation to the DEPS targets, as with past years, the Committee forthcoming AGM.
has used a set of internal and external reference points to set targets.
The target range will be disclosed and explained in next Chief Financial Officer years Remuneration Report.
Paul Mainwaring was appointed as CFO designate on I hope that you will support the advisory and binding votes on the 11 July 2016 and appointed to the Board on 20 July 2016.
His salary remuneration resolutions at the AGM.
on appointment, which was subject to independent benchmarking, was 400,000 per annum.
Paul is eligible to participate in the sustained performance plan and receives a pension and benefits allowance totaling 17% of base salary in accordance with his contractual terms.
The business context in 2017 As noted within the Operating and Financial Review section of the Annual Report on pages 30 to 33, the Group delivered another strong financial performance in 2017.
Revenue increased by 7.6% on 2016s underlying results to 491.1 million, while diluted earnings per share DEPS increased by 2.9% against last years underlying results to 45.9 pence per share.
| | 62 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 63 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY continued Determines the contractual terms, remuneration and other There must also be scope to reward for exceptional effort and Objectives of the remuneration policy DIRECTORS benefits for the Executive Directors achievement that delivers value both for the Company and The Remuneration Policy is set to ensure that remuneration the shareholders.
Likewise, failure to achieve, individually or at REMUNERATION POLICY Determines and reviews the remuneration policy, ensuring it is has the ability to attract and retain senior executives of a high Company level, will not be rewarded.
consistent with effective risk management across the Group, and calibre, remains competitive and provides appropriate incentive The Directors Remuneration Policy describes the framework, considers the implications of this remuneration policy on risk for performance.
The Committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an principles and structures that guide the Remuneration Committees Determines and agrees the policy for the remuneration of the appropriate balance between the level of risk and reward for the decision-making process in the area of Directors remuneration in The Committee has agreed that all matters relating to remuneration Board Chairman and the Executive Directors individual, the Company and for shareholders.
line with the Committees objective to ensure that remuneration for of Group employees should: Executive Directors encourages, reinforces and rewards the growth Reviews pay, benefits and employment conditions and the When setting levels of variable remuneration, the degree of stretch Align with the best interests of the Companys shareholders and of shareholders value.
remuneration trends across the Group in performance conditions and the balance of equity and cash within other stakeholders a package, consideration is given to obtaining the appropriate The policy was approved by over 96% at the 2014 AGM, and Approves share-based awards under the Groups employee Recognise and reward good and excellent performance of balance of each so as not to encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
As is submitted for renewal at the triennial vote at the 2017 AGM, incentive schemes, to determine each year whether awards will employees that helps drive sustainable growth of the Group well as financial risk, the Committee also ensures that there is an without any material change.
The role of the Remuneration be made and, if awards are made, to monitor their operation, the size of such awards and the performance targets to be used Focus on retaining high-performing senior management appropriate focus on regulatory and governance matters.
Committee and the objective of the remuneration policy are described below.
Monitors regulatory developments, including those affecting Be consistent with regulatory and corporate The total remuneration package is structured so that a significant UK-listed companies and financial services firms, to ensure the governance requirements proportion is linked to performance conditions, and it is the remuneration policy is consistent with these Remuneration Committees role Companys policy to ensure that a high proportion of the potential Be designed to achieve effective risk management Makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups senior remuneration package is provided via share-based instruments.
Establishes the selection criteria, appoints and sets the terms Be straightforward, easy for shareholders and employees to executive remuneration policy of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise understand and easy for the Group to monitor This ensures that executives have a strong ongoing alignment with the Committee Determines an overall remuneration package for the Executive shareholders through the Companys share price performance.
Not be used to reward behaviour that inappropriately increases Directors in order to attract and retain high-quality Directors The Committees Terms of Reference can be found on our corporate the Groups exposure to risks capable of achieving the Groups objectives The table below summarises each element of remuneration policy website at iggroup.
for the Executive Directors, explaining how each element operates The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy Sets and agrees with the Board a competitive and transparent and how each part links to the corporate strategy.
remuneration framework which is aligned to the Groups strategy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes and is in the interest of both the Company and its shareholders in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice.
There must be transparency and alignment to the delivery of strategic objectives at both a company and an individual level.
Key elements of remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Base salary Provides a sound basis on which to Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually, and are usually fixed for The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels, with annual increases No performance metrics No recovery or withholding recruit and retain key employees of 12 months commencing 1 June.
Any salary increase may be influenced by: typically in line with the wider workforce.
appropriate calibre to deliver the Scale, scope and responsibility of the role Increases beyond the percentage increases granted to the wider workforce strategic objectives of the Company.
may be awarded in exceptional circumstances, such as: Experience of the individual and his or her performance Reflects the market value of the role Where there is a change in the individuals responsibility Average change in wider workforce pay and the post holders experience, Where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected competency and performance within Business performance and prevailing market conditions once the individual gains further experience and a track record of the Company.
Commercial need performance in the role Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies selected on the basis of An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional comparable size, complexity, geographic spread and business focus circumstances, to reflect the criticality of the role and the individuals experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial year ending 31 May 2018 are: Chief Executive Officer 575,000 Chief Financial Officer 400,000 Pensions and benefits Competitive, cost-effective flexible Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys flexible pension and benefits The aim is to provide a flexible, market-competitive pension and benefits No performance metrics No performance metrics pension benefits allowance to help plan, from which the executive can receive a range of benefits, Company pension contribution allowance, with value for Directors capped 17% of base salary.
Flexible apply to performance apply to performance recruit and retain Executive Directors.
benefits are also provided for the wider workforce who receive a 12% and benefits.
The Board recognises certain stakeholder views that advocate Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a Director is required to relocate.
the alignment of pensions benefits throughout the business and, recognising its commitment to continue to honour existing contractual commitments, it will keep the policy under review.
| | 64 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 65
