23 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 OUR PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE REVIEW FOOD We have had a good year in a diffi cult products for customers looking for environment.
Sales were up 4.2% and something extra special.
We introduced our growth outpaced the market.
Over the shoppers to exciting new fruits and year, our market share rose 20bps to 4.5%.
vegetables, including the biggest avocado on the UK high street and biancoli, Our focus this year was on building on a cauli ower similar in appearance and our strengths of innovation, quality and texture to Tenderstem broccoli.
We made our food more 14 dishes from Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore accessible by opening 68 new Food-only and Korea to our ever-popular Taste Asia R A TRANSPARENCY stores, taking the total to 636, including 383 range and off ered customers a delicious franchise stores.
Between our three formats Our sustainability credentials are a key fresh meal in 25 minutes with our Foodhall, Simply Food and Food To Go part of the M&S diff erence and we need relaunched Cook range.
Our product we deliver convenient food in convenient to ensure our strong ethical standards developers are constantly working to locations, with ranges tailored to each remain at the forefront of everything we translate the theatre of restaurant desserts stores location and size and off ering the do.
We published our inaugural Human into something our customers can enjoy most relevant choice for our customers.
Rights Report which outlines the steps at home hits this year included our We continue to focus on making the we are taking to support and respect Chocolate Melting Dome and Chocolate shopping experience as special as our food.
human rights and our plans for the future.
We were one of first organisations to Constantly curious, our development team We know our customers want great value report against the UN Guiding Principles is always trying to push the boundaries of every time they shop with us.
So we reduced on Business and Human Rights Reporting innovation.
Independent tests prove that the number of promotions we ran and Framework and the highest ranked we are maintaining our lead on quality and focused on delivering competitive prices retailer in the Corporate Human Rights innovation.
We introduced 1,600 new lines every day alongside simpli ed promotions.
We also extended the this year, and from festive Secret Centre We upgraded our popular Dine In off er and reach of our interactive supply chain Cheeses to our Texan-inspired Smokehouse our Indian Takeaway meal deals, and saw map to include Food, Beauty and BBQ collection, newness accounted for sales increases of 7% and 10%, respectively.
a quarter of our entire range.
We extended A basket of our opening price point our premium Collections range to more Simply products, excluding milk for We know our strategy in Food is the right one.
We will continue to make every food which we pay a premium to our farmers, is competitor price-matched to ensure moment special with our diff erentiation, we are off ering customers great value on newness and quality.
CLOTHING & HOME At Christmas, we improved service for our Our priority in Clothing & Home is to recover customers with a new Christmas Food to and grow sales.
We have focused on Order site and a better in-store collection improving quality, lowering prices and experience customer satisfaction streamlining our ranges.
We hosted Taste of is on an improving trajectory as a result.
Christmas events in 600 stores, off ering HEALTHY CHOICE our customers inspiration and the chance Sales over the year fell by 2.8% to 3.8bn as We want to lead the market on health to try special and new products to help we reduced our reliance on discounting.
by off ering customers healthy ways to them plan their Christmas dining.
We grew market share in Lingerie and feel great and great ways to feel healthy.
Kidswear, and stabilised our share in R Customers are increasingly concerned We extended our Eat Well range, and Menswear.
We removed a greater proportion about the origin of their food, so maintaining added 41 lines to our Made Without range, of promotions from Womenswear which the integrity of our food supply chain is which has trebled in size since 2015 aff ected market share.
As we continue our essential to our success.
At M&S we pride sales rose 4% and 38% respectively.
We journey of improvement, one overarching ourselves on our strong relationships with introduced a wholesome store cupboard aim underpins everything we do: to get it suppliers, from those with large factories range with 37 new products across areas right.
Right t. to smaller craft producers.
Our Farm Animal including dried grains and grain pots.
Delivered with great Health & Welfare Policy sets out the high expert chefs travelled to Japan to bring service.
We believe we are on a solid path standards we expect of our suppliers, and back the knowledge and skills required to sustainable growth.
we have a dedicated team of agriculture to develop a new collection of exceptional and sheries specialists responsible for sushi using traditional methods and Read more about our Clothing & Home implementing our agriculture policies strategy on p08-09 specialist ingredients.
With specially across our supply base.
Our business is selected Japanese rice, authentic nori We reduced the number of promotions founded on a long-standing mutual seaweed, fresh wasabi and soy sauce and lowered prices to focus on full-price trust between us, our suppliers and our brewed in Japan, it is our most authentic clothing sales.
As result full-price sales were customers.
So if a trusted supplier makes sushi range ever and customers love it up 2.7%.
We have lowered over 2,400 prices a mistake, we believe it is right to stick with we have already sold 740,000 packs.
since January 2016, particularly on opening them, help them to rectify the issues and, in turn, make them a more robust business.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 24 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE CONTINUED price points, so we are now off ering our growth, our effi cient buying operation and customers better value every day.
We ran strong focus on costs will help mitigate this.
89 fewer promotions and reduced the We increased our focus on product number of sales in the year from nine to six.
categories for which we are best known, such In 2017, we will reduce this further to four.
as Lingerie, Schoolwear, Bedding and Bath, At the same time, we increased the number which resulted in market share growth in of tailored promotions for Sparks members all these categories.
We know where our so that we continue to reward our loyal strengths lie and these categories provide customers.
By removing the noise of opportunities for growth.
From our constant promotional activity and by credibility in Food, we will grow our Cooking OVERSEAS GROWTH cutting prices, we delivered more consistent & Dining departments.
We will capitalise on value and restored our price integrity In April we opened our new agship store our number one market share position in and customers noticed the diff erence.
in Doha with our largest franchise partner, Schoolwear to grow our school shoes market For example, when we lowered the price Al-Futtaim.
The 46,000 sq ft store in the share.
We also have a great opportunity in of jeggings from 19.50 to 15, sales rose Doha Festival City Mall sells fresh food for Beauty we sold 210,000 of our innovative by 35% year-on-year.
This resulted in an the first time in Qatar.
It also features our Beauty Advent Calendar in just two weeks, improvement in full-price sales.
largest international Lingerie department, highlighting the success of off ering an in-store bakery and a table-waited M&S We are working hard to improve the style something diff erent to our customers.
Caf, which serves British classics like sh and design of our products.
In Womenswear, Customers are responding positively to and chips and afternoon tea.
The store is this means creating beautiful, high quality these changes.
As we move through the 28th M&S store in the Gulf and the wardrobe essentials, the area for which M&S recovery to growth, we will continue to third in the city.
is famous, in one master colour palette.
listen to our customers and to focus on We know t is one of the most important contemporary style and wardrobe essentials focus on leveraging our M&S.
com platform measures of quality for our customers, with better products, prices and availability.
and e-commerce distribution centre to so we reviewed and updated our block ful l international orders.
patterns to ensure that everything from INTERNATIONAL exactly where we put darts to the Weve simpli ed our International business This year we announced changes to our measurements on a neckline means we and remain committed to our international International operations that will build a are off ering a consistent, good t. In Mens ambitions.
We still sell our products from more sustainable, pro table and customerformalwear, we reduced the number of ts Dublin to Dubai and from Sydney to San focused International business for M&S.
from six to four while increasing the range of Francisco.
After the reorganisation, we will styles, colours and sizes.
This gave clarity to trade in 50 markets with over 400 stores and International revenues were broadly at at shoppers and customer feedback measures an online presence in 25 markets.
We are just -0.1% at constant currency up 10.7% on on quality, t and style were all up on the as focused on our customers internationally a reported basis while adjusted pro ts grew previous year.
as we are in the UK international customer 15.4% to 64.4m.
However, performance satisfaction levels have risen signi cantly varied across diff erent parts of the business.
Some of our customers told us that M&S year-on-year.
The changes will allow us to While our franchise business made a pro t had become too diffi cult to shop in, with play to our strengths in markets where of 81.9m, our owned business was losstoo much product duplication leading to we have strong brand awareness, an making in a number of markets.
In our confusion about the sub-brands.
So we established store estate and a loyal franchise business, revenues from are streamlining our ranges by cutting the customer base.
Going forward, we will shipments to our partners declined by 3%, number of sub-brands we sell: Indigo in continue to expand with our trusted due to lower shipments to the Middle East Womenswear and Collezione and North franchise partners, enabling us to leverage as a result of the weak retail market in Coast in Menswear are being phased out.
their scale, infrastructure and local the region, although there was better We also trimmed the number of clothing expertise.
We will focus on our successful momentum in the second half of the lines we off er by 12%.
At the same time, we joint ventures in India, where like-for-like year.
Shipments to our European partners have increased the depth of our buys and clothing sales grew 9%, and Greece, where increased, driven by new Food store improved availability across all Clothing & sales were up 3% on a constant currency openings in France, while shipments to Asia Home departments.
The result was more basis.
We also remain committed to our also bene tted from the expansion of our consistent ranges with better size and established owned business in the Republic Food business and new store openings.
of Ireland, which this year was aff ected by As we announced in November, our new It is now a year since we changed the our strategy to reduce promotions and strategy will put our International business structure of our Womenswear team to discounting.
We will expand our popular on a more sustainable footing by focusing focus on product categories rather than franchised Food business in France.
We have also simpli ed how we work In addition, we will continue to reach opportunities for growth remain in markets in Menswear, with an even greater focus on customers through fully localised owned where M&Ss unique off er resonates with product categories that re ects how our and operated websites, via established customers.
The action we are taking will male customers shop.
Some 68% of our marketplaces such as Myntra in India make us more customerand partnerproducts are now designed in-house and and Zalando in Europe and with our focused, driving sustainable pro t growth our simpli ed structure means our buying franchise partners.
teams across Clothing & Home can work in a more collaborative way.
Not only does REACHING OUR CUSTOMERS Our decision to exit owned stores in ten this remove duplication and allow greater markets will result in the closure of 53 stores, In November we outlined plans to reshape coordination in our pricing architecture, but the last of which is expected to shut this our UK store estate to ensure it remains it leads to effi ciencies in our supply base.
The aff ected businesses were lossrelevant and convenient for our customers.
can focus on working with our best suppliers making and in markets where there is limited The changing shape of retail and the growth and buy bigger volumes and better quality opportunity for growth.
These closures in online has inevitably had an impact on our fabrics through fewer factories.
resulted in charges of 130.5m, which space requirements.
This year alone, online R signi cantly impacted pro ts this year.
sales rose by 5.6% on a reported basis to Our improved margin performance is We also simpli ed our overseas 836.3m up 4.9% at constant currency.
a result of better sourcing and less reliance multichannel strategy, closing websites We will reduce our Clothing & Home space on promotions.
Whilst there is a risk that in very small markets and shifting more by around 10% over the next five years while rising sourcing costs will impact margin 25 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 continuing to grow sales through fewer to sub-brands.
Meanwhile we increased centred on the things we sell, Mrs Claus stores in better locations and through M&S.
space for destination areas, such as Coats the tale of Santas wife as a skilled behindcom.
We are also improving the customer and Knitwear, and put these to the front the-scenes operative was our first ever experience in store.
As part of the of the store.
We reviewed our ranging to non-product-led campaign.
It aimed to tap transformation, we will improve around 25% ensure better availability and more choice.
into peoples emotional connection with of our Clothing & Home space.
More space Customers rightly want a similar experience M&S.
Through our #lovemrsclaus social will be deployed to Food and to growth areas of M&S however they shop with us and this media hashtag and tie-ins with our Make such as Kidswear and Home.
Approximately new approach means the shopping journey Every Moment Special activity in store, 30 full-line stores will close.
At the same time, in store is more aligned to that on M&S.
Mrs Claus was a key ingredient that lifted we will open 250 new Simply Food stores our Christmas performance.
Our drive to improve availability was as to take our Food business to even more relevant to M&S.
com as it was for our stores On the back of the campaigns success, customers.
This will result in us having more and there was a signi cant improvement in May this year we introduced our new stores in more convenient locations with an over the year.
This omnichannel approach brand proposition.
More than a tagline, estate that re ects how our customers want means we can be responsive to how and Spend It Well is a call to action, designed to shop with us.
where our customers are shopping and to inspire and enable our customers to Our commitment to putting our customers make best use of stock to ensure customers make every moment special by focusing at the heart of everything we do has been get what they want.
on the experiences, people and things that brought to life this year through our Making really matter.
The campaign represents a We have improved the shopping experience Every Moment Special initiative.
Its about commitment to putting customers at the across all devices over the year as we made knowing our customers and listening to heart of everything we do and it is the first them easier to use through a series of small what they want.
The results have seen we have created based on deep customer upgrades and page developments.
We know customer service satisfaction ratings insight.
With its signi cant focus on our customers like the reliable service that improve, and our people are energised customer experience on and offl ine, it aims shopping on M&S.
com off ers our postMaking Every Moment Special has evolved to position M&S as an enabler of a life well purchase net promoter scores are at an into a movement within M&S.
This is also the first time we have all-time high.
changes in store that further enabled our united both Food and Clothing & Home colleagues to spend more time with our Online shopping often starts with a speci c under a single brand philosophy.
We put over 3,000 extra item rather than a speci c retailer so we Well will sit across all digital channels, stores, employees in key areas: we removed certain made changes to our pages to make them marketing communications and Sparks, tasks that were taking colleagues off the easier for search engines to read and list.
giving our customers a clear and consistent shop oor: we introduced hosts in some of This helps attract more online shoppers view of M&S.
our bigger stores to greet customers: and to M&S.
com in the two weeks leading up Our Sparks membership club is pivotal we introduced handheld devices to improve to Easter, non-paid revenue from search when it comes to giving customers what the shopping experience.
This technology engines was up 29%.
We are aligning our they want and rewarding their loyalty.
Nearly gives our store colleagues access to a channels to give customers consistent and 1.6m members joined this year, taking total wealth of information that enables them to complementary experiences online and in membership to 5.6m.
Sparks analytics spend more time helping customers, from store.
For example, promotional activity on have given us access to a wealth of insights up-to-date stock information to letting M&S.
com now mirrors what happens in our that enable us to be more relevant to our them assist with activating Sparks off ers.
Our online tool for booking a store customers.
We aim to create a personal bra tting is used by over 1,500 customers We also made our stores easier to shop in.
relationship with them, allowing us to tailor a day.
Shop Your Way remains a crucial nexus Following customer feedback, we reduced our off ers and experiences.
By doing this between our physical and online stores.
co-ordinated displays and the space given we have shown that we can encourage Two-thirds of our online transactions also people to shop more frequently in diff erent touch a store at some point whether categories and via diff erent channels, ordering in store or picking up there.
Over and devices, thereby creating shareholder half of all Sparks visits are made via mobile, value.
We are working on making Sparks making it a crucial sales and communication even better.
Over the next year we will channel for us.
Looking ahead, we will increase levels of personalisation, make the focus on improving the speed of our site, scheme easier to use at diff erent customer particularly on mobile, and off ering a touchpoints, and continue to drive shopper broader range of delivery options.
behaviour in ways that are relevant to them.
A ENGAGING OUR CUSTOMERS Since we launched Plan A in 2007, it has LISTENING TO OUR CUSTOMERS sparked some fantastic innovations.
It has R Amid erce competition, it is vital that our made us challenge the way we do things Our Easy Dressing School Uniform, brand remains relevant to our customers.
and to think diff erently.
It has also helped us created with customer insight and help Through our marketing activity this year we to have a positive impact on communities.
from the National Autistic Society, makes have taken a diff erent approach to engaging The new iteration of Plan A comes with a new dressing for school easier, quicker and with customers.
It is an approach built on ambition: to increase levels of engagement more comfortable for both parents and what they have told us, rather than what we with our customers by addressing the issues children.
Popular items include the Boys want to tell them.
Its designed to show that we know they really care about.
We have trousers, which are a pull up style, so no we understand their lifestyles and what identi ed three new priorities around ddly zips or buttons, with the care label matters to them.
Its aimed at reinforcing which all our Plan A activity will be based: inside the side pocket for comfort.
After an emotional connection and at sparking Wellbeing, Community and Planet.
a customer contacted us about off ering conversations about M&S and fresh new The launch dovetailed with our Spend It clothing for children like her grandson thinking about our brand.
Well campaign: after all, looking after the who have specialist needs, we worked Our new marketing approach focuses on planet and living life to the full are part closely with her, her grandson and other the feeling and emotion people get when of the same philosophy.
families on adapting and extending some they shop at M&S.
We first used it in our of our bodysuits and sleepwear up to Read more about our new Plan A award-winning Mrs Claus Christmas commitments marksandspencer.
The range was very well received campaign, which had over 22.5m online and we have since introduced more views and resulted in high customer products and extended it up to age 16. engagement.
Where previous ads have FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
