16 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Chief Financial Officers review A focus on returns The Group is performing strongly, supported by leading network quality and growing customer advocacy.
Wecontinue to deliver good cost efficiency, supporting theGroups improving free cash flow profile and .
Our business model Fit for Growth: a second Our business model: phase of savings identified Vodafone has invested 71 billion over the leading scale that enables past four years including India in order Fit for Growth is a comprehensive cost constant reinvestment in our to strengthen the quality of our assets efficiency programme designed to drive core assets to drive growth and enhance our customers experience.
operating leverage and margin expansion This commitment to invest lies at the heart without impacting the customer experience.
of our strategy, as it enables a differentiated Customers During the year, we have continued customer experience, supporting our leading to make good progress, delivering an absolute market share and premium price position.
reduction in our cost base on an organic basis.
Scale is also critical, as only a leading or coThis is despite the significant underlying cost leading market position combined with Revenue Assets #1 or 2 scale, inflation created by Project Spring and continued highly efficient operations and talented people delivering value strong growth in fixed and mobile customers to society and provides us with sufficient cash generation shareholder during the year.
Areas of significant cost to continue to invest, while also earning returns saving included procurement, shared service the necessary return for our shareholders.
centres, improved sales channel efficiency and This virtuous cycle in which investment standardised network design.
This cost focus Reinvestment Cash flow drives a differentiated customer experience, is reflected in our improved margin performance, supporting leading scale, which enables with 15 markets out of 22 growing adjusted ongoing re-investment is the key to our EBITDA faster than service revenue, driving a 1.2 Our business plan: leading scale and business model see pages 18and 19. percentage point improvement in organic Group sustained investments to provide I am confident that the investments we have adjusted EBITDA margin.
high-quality services and attract made have repositioned Vodafone for future customers, whichin turn provides the Phase two of the Fit for Growth programme profitable growth.
However, our returns funds for reinvestment and attractive has now been developed and new internal on capital are below our cost of capital shareholder returns.
three-year margin targets have been set across in several important markets, as is evident from the Group.
These imply another reduction For more information: our modest adjusted EBIT margin of 8.3%.
Pages 18 and 19 in absolute operating costs on an organic basis Consequently, I remain focused on three key during the coming financial year.
activities in order to drive our returns on capital higher in the years ahead.
Substantial investments over the last four years including India 1 Capital expenditure M&A Spectrum and licences KDG, Ono, VodafoneZiggo JV, 290,000 17 Hellas Online, Cobra new and upgraded base station sites markets have 800 700 spectrum for 4G acquired leading fixed and IoT companies to improve coverage and quality vs. 4 in 2013 to become a fully converged operator 40bn 18bn 13bn Note: Total 71bn 1 Renewals and acquisitions.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 17 Future opportunities include the modernisation From an operational perspective, the Group Looking ahead of our legacy IT infrastructure with scalable, remains highly focused on the management We expect adjusted EBITDA to grow low-cost cloud-based solutions and greater of the business and committed to its organically by 4% to 8%: this implies a range use of digital technologies to reduce the cost continued success, both prior to the of 14.0 to 14.5 billion at guidance exchange of customer interactions.
completion of the merger and thereafter.
This range excludes Vodafone India, but includes the benefit of shareholder Given India currently generates minimal free cash Portfolio management: India recharges received by the Group from flow for the Group, and has historically required and the Netherlands in focus VodafoneZiggo and from Vodafone India, large spectrum investments, the merger also We continue to actively manage our portfolio as well as an anticipated benefit from the improves our dividend coverage.
The merger of operating companies.
We must either introduction of handset financing in the UK.
is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected achieve leading or co-leading scale in a market, Note that shareholder recharges are excluded to complete during calendar 2018. or find a path over time to divest the asset.
from our calculation of organic growth.
This approach is critical to ensure that we are Compensation: a focus Excluding Vodafone India, we expect free allocating our capital investment towards on adjusted EBIT cash flow of around 5.0 billion, before the higher return opportunities.
impact of M&A, spectrum payments and We are changing our compensation structure restructuring costs.
This year, we completed our joint venture to align incentives more closely with adjusted with Liberty Global on 31 December.
Adjusted EBITDA is an important measure The Board intends to grow dividends per VodafoneZiggo has convergence of our performance, however it does not share annually.
Dividends will be declared co-leadership along with the incumbent and capture the cost of our capital investments.
in euros and paid in euros, pounds sterling is thus in an ideal position to compete, while This change will help to ensure that the and US dollars.
The foreign exchange rate capturing synergies with a net present value company remains highly focused on capital at which future dividends declared in euros of 3.5 billion.
Currently the mobile market efficiency moving forwards.
will be converted into pounds sterling and in the Netherlands is highly competitive, US dollars will be calculated based on the weighing on our growth.
However, given Performance against 2017 average exchange rate over the five business future cost synergies and the opportunities for financial year guidance days during the week prior to the payment cross-selling, we remain confident in the midBased on guidance foreign exchange rates, of the dividend.
term outlook and expect to receive our share adjusted EBITDA for the 2017 financial year of at least 500 million in cash returns from grew organically by 3.4% to 15.8 billion, the JV during calendar year 2017. consistent with the 3% to 6% organic growth implying 15.7 to 16.1 billion guidance In addition, as Vittorio has outlined, at the Nick Read range set in November 2016 including India.
end of March we announced our intention Chief Financial Officer On the same basis our free cash flow was to merge our Indian business with Idea Cellular 4.3 billion, consistent with our free cash flow in India, creating a new market leader with guidance of at least 4.0 billion.
Our results are synergies worth approximately US$10 billion.
analysed on pages 35 to 41 in more detail.
Under IFRS rules India is technically treated as a discontinued operation for 2017 and prior For more information: Pages 35 to 43 financial years.
15 out of 22 countries growing adjusted EBITDA faster thanservice revenue 20122015: 6 countries 1 Adjusted EBITDA margin % 2015 28.3 2016 28.4 2017 29.7 Note: 1 2017 includes nine months of VodafoneNetherlands Creating a market leader in India results.
On 20 March 2017, we announced our agreement to combine the operations of Vodafone India and Idea Cellular.
The new company will be jointly controlled and will become the market leader in India, with almost 400 million customers With effect from 1 April 2016, the Groups and 41% revenue market share.
It will have the scale to meet customers presentation currency was changed rapidly accelerating demand for data consumption with a long-term vision and from pounds sterling to the euro commitment to bring world-class 4G networks to villages, towns and cities across India.
This is also an opportunity to create value for shareholders based to better align with the geographic split on delivering synergies with a net present value of US$10 billion, including of the Groups operations.
