184 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 6.
Other Information Basis of Reporting Non-Financial Data This annual report is written in accordance Certain employee data is included in Injury and Illness with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI the accounts and is also subject to separate Calculation Definitions core standards.
Johnson Matthey has applied external audit.
The groups social, health and The following metrics are used in this report.
these in an appropriate context to the group safety and environmental data is collected Lost time injury and illness rate LTIIR is by examination of the definition, explanatory annually at a group level.
It is completed defined as the number of lost workday cases notes and self diagnosis tests to ensure a fair, by each business and approved by a senior per 200,000 hours worked in a rolling year.
balanced and understandable description manager for each global division.
Data A lost workday case is defined as an when assessed against the reporting criteria.
reported at a site level combines actual incident where an employee or contractor is This report covers the period from 1st April measurement and estimates.
The processes unable to work for more than one scheduled 2016 to 31st March 2017.
Our last annual in place to internally and externally verify the working day as a result of a work related report was published in June 2016. reported data are described on page 185. injury or illness.
This report has been developed to Total recordable injury and illness incorporate the groups significant economic, Environmental Data rate TRIIR is defined as the number of environmental and social impacts and is set Calculation Definitions recordable cases per 200,000 hours worked within the context of the United Nations Our operational carbon footprint, reported in a rolling year.
Brundtland definition of sustainability 1987 A recordable case as defined under in tonnes of carbon dioxide CO equivalent, and our own sustainable business goals.
An 2 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions the OSHA Regulations is defined as a work understanding of the relevant local, national, related accident or illness that results in one and Scope 3 electricity transmission and regional and global issues, regulation and distribution losses.
Our Scope 2 emissions or more of the following: absence of more legislation is taken into account during than one day, medical treatment beyond are calculated according to the Greenhouse reporting.
The principles of inclusivity, Gas GHG Protocol corporate standard first aid, death, loss of consciousness and materiality and responsiveness help to shape restricted work or transfer to another job.
the structure of the report and in setting We report GHG emissions from processes 200,000 is the base for 100 full time priorities for reporting.
equivalent workers working 40 hours per and energy use and convert the total group Performance data covers all sites energy use to tonnes CO equivalent using week for 50 weeks per year.
2 which are under the financial control of conversion factors for each emissions source the group, including all manufacturing, as published by Defra in October 2016.
LTIIR by Event Type Definitions research and warehousing operations of the For the location based method of parent company and its subsidiaries.
Data Slip, trip or fall: Injury occurring where Scope 2 accounting, for all facilities outside from new facilities is included from the point there is too little friction or traction between of the US, we use national carbon intensity at which the facility becomes owned by the an individuals footwear and the walking factors related to the consumption of grid company and operational.
Trip injury occurs when the foot hits electricity in 2014 made available in the 2016 explains how we are continuing to build an object causing a person to lose balance.
edition of the world CO emissions database 2 sustainability into our business planning and A fall injury is recorded when someone falls of the International Energy Agency.
They were decision making processes and how, through from an elevated surface e. g. roof, object or purchased under license in November 2016 our governance processes, we manage social, temporary work platform e. g. ladder or into for sole use in company reporting.
For US environmental and ethical matters across an opening in a floor or a hole in the ground.
facilities we use regional carbon factors the group.
Struck against: injury occurring as a result published by the Environmental Protection Data measurement techniques, including of coming into contact with a surface or object Agency in January 2017, eGRID data 2014. calculations for social, environmental and in which the action was initiated by the person For the market based method of Scope 2 health and safety performance, are applied for example when a screwdriver slips.
accounting, we have applied the hierarchy to internationally recognised protocols such of sources for determination of appropriate as the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Calculation of Occupational carbon intensity factors, as outlined in Standard Revised Edition and the GRI Illness Rates Table 6.3 on page 48 of the GHG Protocol indicator protocols as appropriate.
We have successfully exceptions are noted.
Incidence rate for occupational illnesses obtained carbon intensity factors directly All non-financial performance data in the year number of new occupational from our grid electricity suppliers in the EU, is reported on a financial year basis unless illnesses diagnosed in the year x 1,000 US and Australia.
However, it has not been otherwise stated.
Baseline year data has been average number of employees in the year.
possible to obtain this from suppliers in restated, where necessary, to take account of China, India, South Africa and changes in best practice methodologies non-OECD Europe.
For employee data, percentage Under the UK mandatory GHG reporting calculations are made in relation to the requirements, we are required to ensure that number of permanent and temporary the quantification of GHG emissions and data employees in the group but do not include reliability is sufficient to meet our obligation agency or self-employed workers not directly under the UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic employed by Johnson Matthey unless and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. otherwise stated.
The data we have presented for our carbon footprint in this report contains all Johnson Mattheys material GHG emissions and therefore meets the requirements of this legislation.
We have included a mandatory GHG report in the table on page 69.
