O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Chief Financial Officers Report The financial year was a period of physical consolidation for our Mark Higgins European operations as we commenced operations from our new Chief Financial Officer regional distribution centre in Bergheim.
This resulted in us investing more than we had anticipated in Europe with operating losses increasing to 27.6m 2016: 23.0m.
The gross loss in Europe reduced from 4.9m in 2016 to 4.0m in 2017, reflecting the significant progress we have made with our supplier relationships and improvements in delivery costs.
Our increasing scale has helped to leverage European SG&A Costs which have reduced to 33.2% of revenue 2016: 44.4%, and we expect to make further progress in the year ahead as volumes increase.
Over the next few years we will continue to apply our UK learnings in Europe and undertake initiatives to continue to improve product margins to a mature state, make supply chain and cost-todeliver efficiencies and utilise our UK assets where possible, leveraging our cost base through growth, as we set out at the Capital Markets Day in February 2017.
I am pleased to present the financial review for the Group for the year to 31March 2017.
We maintained our focus on delivering value for all our In March 2017 we announced that we had raised 50m of gross stakeholders through our 4Cs strategy and have made good progress proceeds via a placing of new shares in the Company from both new and against all these objectives.
Furthermore we have continued to grow existing investors.
The new shares were admitted to trading on 3 April Group revenue, increased profits across our core UK business and 2017 which was outside our reporting period and therefore the proceeds ensured we are suitably capitalised to continue to accelerate our growth are not included in the balance sheet as at 31March 2017 but are detailed across Europe.
Going forward we will continue to increase sales and within the Events after the reporting period note on page 111.
The profits by leveraging the assets we have built, driving out further placing was undertaken to suitably capitalise the business to support efficiencies and, in the short to medium term, reinvesting our free cash our continued growth and increasing scale, providing us with the flow in the growth of our European operations.
flexibility to react to market opportunities and changes whilst we capitalise on our increased brand awareness.
We experienced a strong start to our financial year, driven in part by the stamp duty change in March 2016 which had a positive impact on the Our customer base and repeat purchase metrics are healthy, overall MDA market.
During the second half we began to feel the impacts highlighting the benefits of our model which will help drive continued of dampening consumer confidence and a reduction in consumer growth across our new territories.
Our expanding range and categories spending power as a result of growing inflationary pressures.
Sterling ensures resilience as we broaden our revenue streams.
This, together deflation in our market saw cost prices increase by 1015% through 2016. with our strong balance sheet and outstanding customer proposition, Despite these factors and the impact of lower trading days against the will ensure that we are well positioned to trade well through possible prior year due to 2016 being a leap year, we achieved a 17.0% increase challenging market conditions.
In the first half of the year the Group made a profit on an Adjusted EBITDA basis with UK profits exceeding Europe Performance at a glance losses, however with margin pressures in the UK in the second half of Financial KPIs the year our UK profitability growth reduced and Europe losses Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 % change exceeded such profit giving an overall Group Adjusted EBITDA loss for the year.
Nonetheless, we have grown market share across all countries Group revenue m 701.2 599.2 17.0% and categories and have achieved a gross margin improvement of 0.7% UK revenue m 629.7 558.5 12.7% across the Group due to product margin gains and increased efficiencies Europe revenue m 84.7 55.6 52.3% in our delivery network in Europe as our volumes build.
We are confident that we will be able to drive further efficiencies and build UK Adjusted EBITDA m 24.4 17.2 41.7% margin by leveraging our increased scale, although in the UK product Europe Adjusted EBITDA losses m 31.5 30.4 3.6% margins are under pressure as we enter the new financial year.
Group Adjusted EBITDA m 2.1 3.9 46.2% In the UK, our focus on educating our customers that AO is a multiGroup Operating Loss m 12.0 10.6 13.2% category electrical retailer began to deliver results as we experienced Non-Financial KPIs particularly strong performances in our SDA category where we have Non-Financial KPIs, such as Brand Awareness and Trustpilot scores continued to expand our range.
Sales in our new Computing category are highlighted on page 21. performed better than we initially anticipated further highlighting that our innovative way of retailing and demystifying products is resonating well with our customers and we continued to see ancillary sales including that of product protection plans perform well.
See our computing launch video here.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 45 45
