Strategic Report PERFORMANCE REVIEW Our high quality portfolio continues and import cost inflation.
These factors will heighten their focus on the best space, where to date, demand has held up well.
On the to generate strong income streams consumer side, confidence will be vulnerable to political and economic uncertainties and we with high occupancy and long leases: have seen some evidence of softening retail spend in the first part of 2017 with inflation we also have optionality to create impacting disposable income.
value from our development pipeline Our view is that Brexit will accelerate polarisation in our markets.
In recent years we have positioned our business to benefit from the long term trends driving demand for space, by providing places which reflect peoples changing lifestyles.
Our data-driven Market and strategy approach to understanding how people use our It is nearly one year since the UK voted to leave properties guides investment and placemaking the European Union.
In that time, the economy activities across our portfolio, as well as our 13.9bn has outperformed expectations, with GDP approach to targeting an increasingly broad portfolio valuation projections for 2017 revised upwards to an range of occupiers.
We provide places with average of 2% and unemployment below 5%, a blend of uses and a mix of services in its lowest in over 40 years.
However, we have attractive environments, accommodating 3.1% entered a prolonged period of uncertainty and the preferences of our occupiers, their total property return businesses will face a number of headwinds.
This is most Mindful of this background, but facing a clear effective where we control the wider need to move forward, occupiers are continuing surroundings, underpinning our focus to make decisions, but plans are taking longer on our multi-let retail properties and 1.1% to come to fruition.
ERV growth This is reflected in our markets.
IPD capital Portfolio performance return fell 2.4% in the three months immediately Our portfolio saw a valuation fall of 1.4% over following the referendum but since then, six the year.
The decline of 2.8% in the first half -1.4% months of positive capital returns totalling was primarily due to outward yield shift of valuation movement 2.0% have partially reversed this position.
This was partially offset by a valuation increase of 1.6% in the second half when yields On the investment side, overall volumes are moved inwards by 5 bps and we benefited down year on year.
However, London offices from the impact of sales, particularly our 8.3 years saw a pick-up in activity towards the end of 50% interest in The Leadenhall Building which weighted average unexpired lease term 2016, and momentum was sustained into 2017, exchanged in the year.
Valuations were also with a number of high profile transactions, supported by continuing ERV growth.
concluded at tight yields, generally ahead of 98% valuation.
This included our exchange of The The value of our Retail portfolio was down 1.8% occupancy rate Leadenhall Building, which demonstrates the reflecting total outward yield shift of 14 bps, continuing appeal of high quality, well located with 18 bps movement in the first half partially properties in London.
In retail, activity has offset by 3 bps contraction in the second half.
been subdued with a lack of quality stock being We saw variation within Retail, with the strongest 44% brought to the market.
This has resulted in ERV growth on our multi-let portfolio at 2.4%.
carbon intensity reduction since 2009 limited transactional activity in multi-let retail, This was 2.5% at our Local centres, marginally index score although long term, secure income assets ahead of our Regional centres at 2.3%.
We remain attractive to a range of investors.
saw a valuation fall on superstores of 5.2%, reflecting a fall in ERVs of 4.0%, but a stronger We expect Brexit-related headwinds to impact development is forecast to be at elevated performance across our other single-let assets our occupational markets.
In offices, it will be levels, but we are increasingly seeing plans with valuations up more than 5%.
This reflected some years before we have clarity on the impact being deferred or cancelled, and a significant the sale of Debenhams, Oxford Street and of proposed regulatory changes which may proportion of the supply proposed in 2019 lease extensions and rent increases agreed affect occupier demand, particularly in financial and 2020 remains uncommitted.
However, demand from more creative sectors, which has accounted for a growing Retailers are facing a more challenging Offices were down 0.7% with outward yield share of activity in recent years, has held up environment with cost pressures from a movement of 15 bps for the full year, as 21 bps well, and we are encouraged that a number of number of sources including the National expansion in the first half was partially offset leading global companies have reaffirmed their Living Wage, business rates in some areas by 6 bps contraction in the second half.
We saw commitment to London since the referendum.
Vacancy rates have risen from low levels to Valuation ERV Total property Valuation movement growth return marginally above long term averages in both the Year ended 31 March 2017 m % % % City and West End following recent development completions.
We expect further supply to apply Retail 6,654 1.8 1.6 3.5 downward pressure on market rents, but Offices & Residential 7,015 0.5 0.5 3.0 our experience today is that the right space in Canada Water 271 10.8 0.9 8.1 strong locations continues to command rents Total 13,940 1.4 1.1 3.1 around pre-referendum levels.
Central London 28 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the largest valuation falls on assets with near Hempel Collection, sales accelerated following term expiries, particularly those properties the launch in March 2017, and a reduction in vacated by UBS at Broadgate.
At Clarges, Mayfair we intend to 2.0bn UBSs new building 5 Broadgate gained in value market the remaining 11 apartments following gross investment activity benefiting from a long lease with RPI linked completion in late 2017 but we agreed the sale uplifts.
The value of The Leadenhall Building of one of the larger apartments in the year ahead also increased reflecting the sale price of valuation following a one-off approach.
activity reduces our residential properties to 1.5bn sell to 210 million of which 150 million is disposals The value of Canada Water fell 10.8% reflecting at Clarges.
the valuers reassessment of development risk and returns, particularly on residential, Our 195 million of acquisitions in the year were as well as planning and feasibility costs focused on adjacencies to existing holdings, 0.5bn not recovered.
This 46-acre regeneration notably our 64 million acquisition of the New acquisitions and capital expenditure opportunity is valued at 6 million per acre.
George Street Estate in Plymouth which lies The next major value creation step is expected between Drake Circus and our proposed leisure to be on securing planning.
scheme and our 49 million purchase of 10-40 The Broadway, Ealing which is adjacent to our 1.7m sq ft Our portfolio outperformed IPD at the sector Ealing Broadway Local retail centre.
In both lettings and renewals level, with Retail and Offices 60 bps and 40 cases these acquisitions complement and bps ahead on a capital returns basis.
Overall enhance our existing plans.
we underperformed the IPD universe which comprises 20% industrial assets which Development spend totalled 183 million in the 8% performed well this year, by 110 bps on a year.
We completed almost 200,000 sq ft of office lettings and renewals ahead of ERV capital return basis and by 150 bps on a space at 4 Kingdom Street, Paddington Central total return basis.
and 7 Clarges Street and 187 apartments at Aldgate Place Phase 1 and The Hempel Investment and development activity multi-let assets which were not aligned Collection.
Capital expenditure enhancing our The gross value of our investment activity with our strategic goals.
The largest sale was assets was 109 million, including extensions since 1 April 2016, as measured by our share Debenhams, Oxford Street for a price of 400 and unit reconfigurations at our multi-let retail of acquisitions, disposals, capital spend on million.
We sold 226 million 410 million gross assets with directly associated income uplifts.
developments and other capital projects was value of superstores including 116 million as We have invested 44 million improving our retail 2.0 billion.
This includes 1.5 billion of sales on part of our Tesco JV swap transaction which environments, notably at Meadowhall which average 9% ahead of valuation, at an average exchanged and completed after the year end, accounted for 23 million, as part of our 60 yield of 4%.
resulting in the termination of the last of our million 100% refurbishment.
This completes five Tesco joint ventures.
In aggregate, our at the end of 2017, and is the most significant Offices sales included our 50% interest in Tesco joint ventures delivered an annualised investment in the centre since it opened in 1990, The Leadenhall Building, which exchanged return of over 10% since the first one was ensuring that it continues to meet consumers in March for a headline price of 1.15 billion established in 1997.
Over the last five years, we evolving expectations.
The sale, to C C Land, is conditional have now sold over 900 million of superstores, good response from occupiers with 37 long term upon C C Land shareholder approval.
A Special reducing their weighting in the Retail portfolio lettings and renewals signed here in the year.
General Meeting of the shareholders of C C from 22% to 8% and in the overall portfolio We have also invested 5 million enhancing the Land has been convened on 18 May 2017 from 13% to 4%.
Multi-let retail now accounts public realm at our London campuses, primarily to approve the transaction.
We expect the for 78% of the Retail portfolio increasing from Paddington Central, as part of a 12 million transaction to complete shortly thereafter.
This transaction is a good example of how our standalone office assets provide liquidity We have progressed sales at each of Following development completions, our allowing us to develop and trade opportunistically.
our residential schemes with 56 million speculative development exposure has reduced At our campuses we focus on delivering exchanged over the year, on average 4.5% to below 4%.
This is well within our internal sustainable returns over the long term.
ahead of valuation with a further 27 million risk threshold for speculative development.
reserved at prices in line with March 2017 This threshold was reduced to 8% of overall In Retail, we made 881 million of disposals, valuations.
Sales at Aldgate Place were portfolio value from 10% in the year, reflecting 3% ahead of valuation, comprising 709 million exchanged at prices in line with valuation, a moderation of our appetite for speculative of single-let properties and 172 million of leaving just one apartment to sell.
At The development risk given uncertainty in our markets.
Our most significant commitment is 100 Liverpool Street at Broadgate: totalling Retail Offices Residential Canada Water Total 520,000 sq ft, including 90,000 sq ft of retail.
From 1 April 2016 m m m m m It is due to complete at the end of 2019, with 1 Purchases 187 8 195 costs to come of 152 million British Land 1,2 share.
We also commenced a 66,000 sq ft Sales 881 609 56 1,546 leisure development at New Mersey, Speke Development Spend 20 132 21 10 183 which is largely pre-let and expect to complete Capital Spend 91 18 109 the residential element of Clarges, Mayfair Net Investment 583 459 35 18 1,059 later this year.
Gross Investment 1,179 759 77 18 2,033 Construction cost forecasts continue to On a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of joint ventures and funds suggest a slowdown in the rate of growth over 1 Includes 43m acquisitions and 116m disposals that exchanged and completed post year end as part this year and next, despite increasing pressure of the Tesco JV swap transaction resulting in a net 73m disposal of superstore assets: also includes on input costs.
Our experience suggests that a further 49m acquisition that exchanged and completed post year end.
2 cost inflation is marginally lower than it has Of which, 575m Offices sales and 19m Residential sales completing post year end.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Strategic Report PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Developments Our retail opportunities include a 322,000 British Land share sq ft leisure extension at Meadowhall.
We have submitted our plans and expect a decision over Current Cost to ERV let Residential Spec 1 Sq ft value complete ERV under offer exchanged dev.
the summer with a view to starting on site in At 31 March 2017 000 m m m m m % 2018.
Our plans envisage a multi-level Leisure Completed in year 489 343 37 16 11 Hall with dining and entertainment options alongside high quality internal and external Committed 690 478 218 21 1 278 4% spaces for events and community use, Near term 1,083 345 338 43 25 6% including new restaurants, a new cinema, Medium term 3,031 caf court and gym.
Canada Water 5,500 Eden Walk is a 538,000 sq ft mixed use, On a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of joint ventures and funds except area regeneration scheme in Kingston, which we which is shown at 100%.
1 own in joint venture with USS.
In March 2017, we Speculative development is defined as valuation plus costs to come less percentage pre-sold pre-let as a proportion of the investment portfolio value.
The near term figure quoted is the current position pro forma achieved consent for our development, which for commitment of near term opportunities.
includes 40 new retail and restaurant units, 380 new homes and 35,000 sq ft of high quality, been over the last two years.
On the retail side, we are refining modern and flexible office space.
Our proposal continue to take a cautious view and maintain our plans for a 104,000 sq ft leisure scheme at will create an estimated 600 additional jobs for prudent allowances within project budgets Drake Circus in Plymouth and we expect to start local people.
We are progressing our plans to to reflect specific sectors and locations.
In total, these commitments secure vacant possession of the site, and expect of the costs on our committed development amount to 338 million of spend and would take to commence development in 2019, but in the programme have been fixed.
our speculative development commitment to 6%.
meantime the scheme is income producing with a yield of 3.4%.
Our divestments, totalling 1.5 billion this year, Looking further ahead, our medium term our planning activity and progress on leasing pipeline covers a range of uses, including Canada Water is the most significant discussions improve our optionality and leave office-led development in London, and retail and development opportunity in our medium term us well placed to make timely decisions on mixed use developments across the country and pipeline: the shopping centre and leisure scheme commitments in our development pipeline.
The majority of these projects remain income producing with a yield of 2.8%.
Our completed developments are substantially are income producing, including 2&3 Finsbury We are working closely with the London Borough let, with almost 80% of the office space at Avenue and Eden Walk or are held at low cost of Southwark, the Greater London Authority, 4 Kingdom Street under offer, and over 80% of Blossom Street and the proposed leisure Transport for London and the local community the office space at 7 Clarges Street let.
Leasing scheme at Meadowhall providing us with on our masterplan for the 46 acre site, with plans discussions on our committed pipeline are real optionality on the timing and nature of our for up to 5.5 million sq ft of space across a wide progressing and we are under offer on all of commitment.
The total potential cost associated range of uses.
This includes 2 million sq ft of the office space at our proposed redevelopment with these opportunities is 1.4 billion plus workspace and 1 million sq ft of retail and leisure of 1 Triton Square.
This activity enables us Canada Water.
We will maintain an appropriate space alongside educational and cultural uses to progress developments whilst keeping level of development risk, and so on our and up to 3,500 new homes.
These will include speculative commitments at an appropriate office-led developments, commitment is likely a mix of affordable and market priced housing level.
We secured planning consents totalling to be influenced by the progress of pre-let as well as a more targeted provision, including 2.3 million sq ft in the year across the portfolio discussions.
We have a disciplined approach student accommodation.
The revised masterplan and submitted planning applications on a further to capital allocation and retain the flexibility integrates principles of sustainability and 1.3 million sq ft.
This provides for a much wider to respond to the changing environment.
wellbeing which will create a new urban range of opportunities in the near and medium centre for London.
Our active programme term than we had at the start of the year.
Opportunities at our campuses include the of engagement with the local community and 105,000 sq ft Gateway Building at Paddington other stakeholders includes our fourth public In our near term pipeline, we expect to commit Central, where we are in advanced negotiations consultation which started earlier this month to the refurbishments of 1 Finsbury Avenue with an operator for a boutique hotel on the site and we are targeting submission of a planning 288,000 sq ft and 135 Bishopsgate 325,000 of the current management suite.
We expect application around the end of the financial year.
sq ft at Broadgate, in the coming months to proceed if these discussions are successful, We will evaluate phasing of the project and following receipt of planning and agreement subject to planning.
We are also working to potential funding structures as we move closer with our joint venture partner.
Our plans at both enhance the existing consent for a 240,000 sq ft to securing planning.
In the meantime, we have include increasing retail and leisure space by office building at the site of 5 Kingdom Street.
been engaging with a wide range of potential 88,000 sq ft including a cinema and roof terrace In the meantime, we have let space on a short occupiers and are encouraged by the interest.
In being added to 1 Finsbury Avenue.
Royal Bank term basis to Pergola Paddington Central, the short term, we have created an exciting new of Scotland will be surrendering their lease at who are creating an 850-capacity pop up dining events space at the Printworks to raise the public 135 Bishopsgate in June 2017 ahead of expiry in concept which benefits the broader campus.
profile of the area and to generate income, as 2019 and we will receive a payment of 34 million At Broadgate, we have secured planning for a well as testing the appetite for this kind of facility 100% compensating for the remaining lease 563,000 sq ft redevelopment of 2&3 Finsbury within our plans.
The space has already played term and dilapidations: we are already seeing Avenue: UBS have vacated 2 Finsbury Avenue host to Secret Cinema and Mulberry in London good interest on a significant portion of the space and we have secured short term lettings on 90% fashion week, and now regularly hosts cultural here.
At 1 Triton Square we are currently under of this space whilst their lease at 3 Finsbury events.
In total, almost 100,000 people have offer on all of the office space, and have received Avenue remains in place break in late 2018. attended events there.
approval from the London Borough of Camden Looking further forward, we expect to take for our redevelopment.
Subject to completion of vacant possession of 1-2 Broadgate in summer More details on the portfolio, property the planning process and the pre-let, we expect 2019 and are working up our plans for a 375,000 performance, individual developments and to commit and to start on site in March next year.
sq ft scheme which will include a substantial assets sold and acquired during the year This will coincide with the expiry of short term retail element.
At Blossom Street, we have can be found in the detailed supplementary leases agreed to maintain optionality for the secured full consent on a 340,000 sq ft office-led tables on pages 162 to 171. redevelopment of this site while mitigating mixed use development.
30 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our actions this year have positioned us to exploit optionality we have created in our development pipeline Committed Near term Medium term 100 Liverpool Street, Broadgate 1 Finsbury Avenue, Broadgate Gateway Building, Paddington Central 520,000 sq ft 288,000 sq ft 105,000 sq ft Completing: 2019 Target commitment: 2017 Target planning submission: 2017 Office led development at the gateway of our Broadgate Refurbishment with a mix of retail and leisure at Boutique hotel and leisure scheme, providing campus, adjacent to new Liverpool Street Crossrail ground floor, including a cinema, with more flexible a new use to Paddington Central.
Plans include 90,000 sq ft of retail and leisure.
office space on the upper floors and roof terrace.
Clarges, Mayfair residential 1 Triton Square, Regents Place Blossom Street, Shoreditch 34 apartments 366,000 sq ft 340,000 sq ft Completing: 2017 Target commitment: 2017 Planning obtained: 2016 Mixed use development comprising 34 luxury Redevelopment of existing building adding 125,000 Mixed use development in Shoreditch.
Our plans apartments of which 60% pre-sold by value, sq ft of office space.
Under offer for pre-let of entire envisage character offices with a mix of floorplates 11 apartments to sell on completion.
alongside retail and residential, retaining much of the original fabric of the buildings.
New Mersey, Speke leisure Drake Circus, Plymouth leisure Canada Water 66,000 sq ft 104,000 sq ft 5.5m sq ft Completing: 2018 Target commitment: 2018 Target planning submission: end of the financial year Leisure extension, 64% pre-let and anchored Leisure extension will include a 12-screen Cineworld, 46 acre mixed use regeneration opportunity in London.
13 restaurant units and 420 car park spaces.
Our masterplan, covering 5.5 million sq ft, envisages a broad mix of workspace, retail and leisure, residential and community use.
Existing uses provide an income yield of 3%.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Strategic Report RETAIL PLACEMAKING Weve had a successful year.
We have leased well, our operational metrics continue to outperform and weve grown our rents, particularly where we have invested Retail highlights of the year Our Retail portfolio 6.6bn portfolio valuation British Land share 98% Charles Maudsley occupancy rate Head of Retail and Leisure 8.6 years lease length to first break Our Retail business has had a successful 312m year, evidenced by our continued strong annual footfall leasing, our operational metrics which are outperforming and our ERV growth which is Our portfolio has the potential to reach ahead of the market, particularly where we have invested.
This is our tenth consecutive year of outperformance on a total returns 60% basis.
This is testament to our strategy, of the population which is to create outstanding places for modern consumer lifestyles.
The growth of online has driven polarisation in retail, as occupiers are increasingly focused on the best, and the most appropriate space to profitably grow sales across all channels.
We expect this trend to accelerate in the coming years, as retailers face a range of headwinds such as cost inflation and weaker Key consumer spending while the terms on Regional centres which the UK leaves the EU are negotiated.
Local centres For many of our occupiers, the best space Asset catchment areas means a number of flagship or hub stores supplemented by a network of more convenient outlets which ensure sufficient coverage and are an important part of online fulfilment networks, including click and collect.
This mirrors our strategy in Retail which is to operate both Regional centres, attracting visitors from a wide catchment for planned trips, with a breadth and depth of retail and leisure, and Local centres which fit into the daily life of communities and are more Source: CACI Retail Footprint 2016 convenient and accessible.
32 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our focus is on our occupiers and their customers and we use a range of sources to understand needs.
We engage with consumers directly through shopper surveys and collect data on their online interactions, generating insights about how, when and where people like to shop.
This guides everything from our investment in the portfolio to the occupiers we are targeting, enabling us to position our centres to be the best in their catchment, for the range of shopper missions they serve.
A high level of customer services is a key element of our offering and we now manage our retail Over 5,000 children took part in the Young Readers Programme organised in partnership with the assets in-house through Broadgate Estates: National Literacy Trust across 22 centres in our this transition was completed in the year and portfolio enlivening our spaces and strengthening we have been very pleased with how this has links with local communities.
This is the sixth year Retail highlights of the year Local Mayflower, Basildon enabled us to deliver a consistent and a high of our partnership.
standard of service across our retail portfolio.
Our Retail portfolio This year, footfall and in-store sales which increasingly sophisticated pitching process exclude click and collect and the boost to online which leverages our insights to help prospective from physical stores, outperformed their occupiers understand our offer and positioning 6.6bn benchmarks by 240 bps and 220 bps respectively, within our catchments.
A number of operators, portfolio valuation British Land share but both were flat overall.
Differing dynamics including Primark, JD Sports, Sports Direct and were evident across our portfolio, with footfall Schuh chose to locate more of their flagship at our Regional centres down 1.9% but sales up stores with us in the year, by adding to their 0.3% illustrating how people are visiting these existing space at our Regional centres.
At our 98% larger centres less frequently, but spending Local centres, we saw new lettings to Wilko, occupancy rate more.
At our Local centres, footfall was up 2.1% River Island, Nandos and more community 156,000 sq ft but in-store sales were down 0.7% reflecting focused occupiers such as Explore Learning greater click and collect usage at these sites and local gyms.
We are also appealing to more which is not included within in-store sales.
Our premium brands, particularly where we have 8.6 years 3m True Value of Stores research, conducted in the invested and Meadowhall is a good example of lease length to first break annual footfall year with retail consultancy GlobalData illustrated this.
Neals Yard, Nespresso, Hawes & Curtis, the important role physical stores play in boosting Flannels and Ghost London all signed in the Regional Fort Kinnaird, Edinburgh sales across other channels, including click and year as our 60 million 100% refurbishment collect.
On average, click and collect usage is 46% programme nears completion.
312m greater at our Local centres than the national annual footfall average and click and collect customers spend This strong demand for our space is reflected in around 50% more than the average shopper.
the re-letting of 90% of the 247,000 sq ft of space Our portfolio has the This outperformance illustrates that in a returned to us following BHS administration, potential to reach polarising market, our centres are attracting a with long term leases at levels significantly disproportionate share of consumer demand.
in excess of previous passing rent.
60% This year, despite a more uncertain trading Like-for-like rental growth excluding of the population environment, and with the portfolio virtually full surrender premiums was 2.0%, driven by our at 98%, we let more space, on better terms, to strong leasing activity as well as rent reviews a wider range of occupiers than in the previous with over 120 reviews settled on average 3.4% 560,000 sq ft year.
Lettings and renewals totalling 1.3 million ahead of passing rent and ahead of valuation sq ft were signed in the year, on average 10.8% assumptions.
This year we renewed eight ahead of ERV.
Our Regional centres accounted Homebase leases, totalling 283,000 sq ft 13m for approximately two-thirds of this activity but extending the lease term to 15 years, increasing annual footfall both Regional and Local centres achieved leasing rents and providing a significant capital uplift terms which were strongly ahead of ERV.
Growing food & beverage and leisure across our multi-let portfolio Our leasing covered a broad range of sectors, ERV growth across our multi-let properties but we were particularly successful in fashion, was 2.4% and this performance provides strong 10 homewares and food & beverage which evidence that our strategy is working.
Investment accounted for 25%, 27% and 15% of leasing in our assets, guided by our insights has driven 8 respectively.
Reflecting our customers demand for our space, bringing our portfolio to preferences, our plans are to increase the near full occupancy, and generating the demand 6 leisure and food & beverage allocation across tension needed to drive rents.
We are particularly our portfolio from the current position of 10% pleased that ERV growth across assets benefiting 4 up from 6% four years ago, and we made good from our investment was 3.2%, which was ahead progress on this in the year with 133,000 sq ft of of the portfolio average.
We are particularly pleased that several growth was nearly 14% following completion of of our occupiers have chosen our assets for their our 6 million investment to improve the public 0 March March March March March first out of town locations including Thaikhun, realm there, including a new playground, the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Wahaca, Smiggle, Superdry, Charles Clinkard addition of public art and reconfiguration of and Pret-A-Manger.
This success reflects an the car park.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 % of rent Strategic Report RETAIL PLACEMAKING CONTINUED The changes British Land is making to its centres will make them some of the very best around.
The concept 1.3m sq ft of retail lettings and renewals of continually updating the experience, improving the public realm and getting the balance right between retail and leisure is so important.
The investment 11% lettings and renewals ahead of ERV in their assets is spot on.
Timothy Melgund, CEO Paperchase 240bps footfall growth ahead of the benchmark 220bps in-store sales growth ahead of the benchmark 70 work placements with our occupiers on our Starting out in Retail programme, part of Bright Lights 21 of our centres providing customers with augmented reality games during the year 46% more click and collect usage at our Local centres than the national average Enlivening our places Events such as the live screening of sports, theatre and film, drive footfall to our centres including SouthGate, Bath.
Development spend in the year was 20 million completing in late 2017.
At Teesside, we are on and included a new leisure quarter at Glasgow site with a 30 million refurbishment programme 3.5% Fort, with four new restaurants and a multito coincide with the centres 25th anniversary.
total property return storey car park adding 600 spaces and increasing Our improvements focus on the public realm car park capacity by over 30% to accommodate and customer service facilities and will deliver growing visitor numbers.
This follows leisure more flexible space for our occupiers.
and retail extensions in 2013 and 2015 which have -1.8% underpinned improved operational performance Our insight has also guided our placemaking valuation movement at the centre.
The centre is now ranked top in activities across the portfolio.
This year we its category by CACI in Scotland.
Our leisure staged a virtual Christmas present hunt at 21 extension at New Mersey, Speke, where Local and Regional centres, the largest ever construction commenced this year will add augmented reality game in UK retail property.
1.6% an 11-screen cinema, pre-let to Cineworld, Eats from the Street, showcasing the best in UK ERV growth and six restaurant units, significantly enhancing street food returned to ten of our centres and we the leisure offering at this centre.
Opening launched Street Style a fashion and beauty event in summer 2018, we have already pre-let which ran across seven of our assets.
Our Young restaurants to Wagamamas, Nandos and TGI Readers Programme, run in partnership with the 1.2bn Friday.
This year we achieved planning consents National Literacy Trust and retail occupiers, is in gross investment activity on 840,000 sq ft, covering a range of activity from its sixth year and we are pleased that over 5,000 large mixed use developments to small-scale children took part this year.
Our Bright Lights improvements to existing properties, providing skills programme provided work placements optionality for the future.
with our retail and leisure occupiers for 70 local 881m unemployed young people of which 75% moved retail disposals at average yield of 4.3% This year, capital spend in the Retail portfolio into permanent jobs soon after.
Initiatives such as totalled 91 million of which just over half were these help enliven our places, attracting new and initiatives delivering an immediate increase in repeat visitors to our centres and foster stronger income.
The remainder were initiatives to enhance connections with local communities and our 790kw environments with longer term benefits for occupiers.
The people who live in and around our of solar panels across five centres, our assets.
The refurbishment programme at assets are an important part of our catchment with more planned Meadowhall was the most significant of these, and their loyalty is increasingly relevant as accounting for 23 million British Land share.
customers have greater choices around how This is part of our 60 million 100% upgrade and where they shop.
34 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OFFICES PLACEMAKING Weve had a strong year.
We have made good progress letting space across our development pipeline and our campuses are appealing to a broader range of occupiers than ever before Our Offices business has had a strong year.
has proved to be a magnet for these new The portfolio is virtually full and we have made and growing companies.
This trend is good progress letting space across our recently driving a change in the type of space which completed, committed and near term pipeline.
is succeeding, with a growing emphasis on In line with our strategy to create outstanding flexibility, co-working and wellbeing, as well places for modern professional and consumer as environments which are compatible with lifestyles we are increasing the mix of uses the way peoples work and leisure time overlap.
across our campuses, to appeal to a broader Financial services accounted for under 20% range of occupiers.
of take up, less than half the figure in 2010.
This trend may accelerate further with Office take up in central London has been led regulatory and policy changes following Brexit, by the technology and media sectors, which but the feedback we have is that the preference are now the most significant component of of financial services companies is to retain the Tim Roberts demand, accounting for nearly one third of majority of their operations in London because Head of Offices and Residential activity in 2016.
With its pool of international overwhelmingly this is where their employees talent and reputation for innovation, London want to live and work.
Our Offices portfolio in London Key Campus Standalone assets Crossrail 6.3bn Launching 2017-2018 portfolio valuation British Land share 98% occupancy rate Regents Broadgate Place 4.9m sq ft 1.6m sq ft Paddington City Central 30 mins from 7.8 years Liverpool St. lease length to first break 1m sq ft Kings Cross Euston Warren Regents Street Whitechapel Park Farringdon West End Bond Street Midtown The City Liverpool St. Paddington Tottenham Court Road Clarges, Mayfair Heathrow The Portman Cluster 15 mins from Marble Arch House Paddington York House 1 Pro forma for sale of 10 Portman Square The Leadenhall Building.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Strategic Report OFFICES PLACEMAKING CONTINUED Our campuses Our strategy focuses on providing the right space, the right services, and the right Broadgate 50% interest environments to meet this broader spectrum 2.8% of demand.
We have engaged more actively total property return with the users of our space, and this year, launched the Office Agenda an online platform where we share key insights with -0.7% workers and decision makers on topical issues valuation movement including the role of real estate in attracting and retaining talent and smart offices.
Our surveys of nearly 4,000 office workers and decision makers provided valuable 0.5% insight into what makes a great place to ERV growth work, helping our occupiers refine their office strategy and enabling us to better reflect their needs.
Regents Place At the portfolio level, this includes broadening The success of our approach is demonstrated the range of uses on our campuses with a by our leasing activity, which this year totalled higher allocation to retail and leisure, as well 279,000 sq ft, 1.4% ahead of ERV.
33,000 sq ft as delivering more flexible office space with related to retail, leisure or community space.
floorplates which are easily divisible, enabling We have let a further 85,000 sq ft on a short us to target a wider range of occupiers.
At the term or meanwhile basis, adding uses which campus level, we are applying our placemaking enliven our campuses and address lease framework by enhancing and enlivening our expiries while preserving optionality for assets with a comprehensive programme of redevelopment.
We were pleased that a events including exhibitions, art installations, number of our major occupiers re-committed concerts, wellbeing activities, pop-up shops, to our campuses in the year, including bars, markets and restaurants, and live Facebook who have agreed terms to further screening of sports, theatre and film.
We also extend their occupation of 106,000 sq ft at 10 partner with our occupiers on community Brock Street.
At 20 Triton Street, Dimensional initiatives, such as the Regents Place Fund Advisors have agreed to a re-gear, taking Paddington Central Community Fund, where our partnership their term to 10 years original expiry June with occupiers has invested 30,000 this year 2020, with an additional 12,000 sq ft and to support local community projects, making a Credit Agricole have agreed to extend their positive difference and strengthening our links 140,000 sq ft lease at Broadwalk House from with local communities.
This activity, as well as the final across our campuses and our results show that lettings at Marble Arch House and The satisfaction levels are high, and have improved Leadenhall Building has increased like-for-like over the last two years, particularly amongst rent across the office portfolio by 4.5%.
We are also letting well across our recently completed and near term pipeline whilst successfully expanding our mix of uses.
At 4 Kingdom Street, Paddington Central, we were almost 80% under offer on the office space within a week of completion in April.
In aggregate, these leases are on terms 3% Standalone They arent just landlords.
ahead of pre-referendum net effective ERVs and over 25% ahead of our Investment They take a real interest 7 Clarges Street, Mayfair Committee assumptions at commitment in in the campus.
We have signed a two year lease with Pergola Paddington Central for an 850-capacity Harry Tsakalotos, EBRD pop-up dining destination on the site of 5 Kingdom Street.
The venue will feature some of Londons most popular restaurants and bars, including Patty & Bun, DF Mexico and Raw Press and the offering will change each season.
At Broadgate, we are addressing vacancies at 2 Finsbury Avenue with 90,000 sq ft of short term lettings, including to Theatre Delicatessen, a fintech company and an architecture practice.
36 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We started on site at 100 Liverpool Street in to commit to both refurbishments in the our relationship with an existing occupier the year.
It sits at the gateway to our Broadgate coming months with an associated cost of at Paddington Central, who need additional campus, adjacent to Liverpool Street station 90 million.
At Paddington Central, we are space for their digital team.
This initiative where the first Crossrail services will in advanced negotiations with an operator strengthens existing relationships and attracts commence next year.
It covers 520,000 sq ft to pre-let a boutique hotel and all day dining new occupiers to our campus, potentially our an increase of 140,000 sq ft and is designed concept on the site of the existing management core occupiers of the future.
We have allocated to be divisible into units as small as 3,000 sq ft suite the Gateway Building.
At Regents Place further space across our campuses including with shared facilities catering to demand from we are pleased that we are under offer on at 4 Kingdom Street, and we have commenced smaller businesses.
90,000 sq ft is allocated 310,000 sq ft representing all of the office fit-out across 80,000 sq ft. to retail and restaurants, and we are space at our proposed redevelopment of committed to both the WELL standard for 1 Triton Square, and received approval from Following the exchange of The Leadenhall wellbeing and the WiredScore Platinum rating the London Borough of Camden last week.
Building, our standalone office portfolio for internet connectivity and infrastructure.
At 7 Clarges This development is a good illustration of This means that across our campuses, Street, the 51,000 sq ft office element of our our strategy in Offices to deliver buildings we are under offer or in advanced negotiations mixed use development in Mayfair, we were which meet evolving customer needs and on over 700,000 sq ft of space with significant pleased that over 80% of the space was let appeal to a broader range of occupiers.
discussions ongoing across the London or under offer just four months after its The redevelopment is expected to more business with potential occupiers on a further launch in September.
We achieved an than double rents at the building.
850,000 sq ft of space, which could trigger average rent of 113 psf, on terms in line further development commitments.
with pre-referendum net effective ERVs, The next phase of development will see the demonstrating the continuing demand for mix of uses continue to evolve.
Our revised As part of our campus offering we will quality office space in London.
At Yalding plans for a 288,000 sq ft refurbishment at shortly launch a branded flexible workspace House 29,000 sq ft we have let four of the 1 Finsbury Avenue include a cinema, retail offer which enables us to capture incremental six floors and are under offer on the final and restaurants at ground floor, and our demand from the increasing number of small two.
Like The Leadenhall Building, these proposals at 135 Bishopsgate allocate 43,000 businesses taking space in London as well are buildings where we can develop and sq ft to retail.
We have submitted plans for as meeting a growing need amongst our trade opportunistically, to provide liquidity refurbishment of these buildings, and are in existing occupiers for flexible space for specific in our portfolio and enhance returns.
discussions with prospective occupiers on projects and teams.
Our first flexible deal is nearly half of the combined space.
We expect on 25,000 sq ft at 2 Finsbury Avenue, extending 279,000 sq ft lettings and renewals 1.4% lettings vs ERV 1.15bn headline sale price of The Leadenhall Building 100% 150m development and capital spend 700,000 sq ft of lettings under offer or in advanced negotiations across our campuses Enlivening our campuses Pergola, an 850-seater outdoor dining concept at Paddington Central, will host some of Londons most popular bars and restaurants.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
