Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Performance review Our customers What customers tell us is at the heart of the decisions we make to improve their shopping trip Listening to customers experience with us.
This is an important way of HIGHLIGHTS staying in regular touch with the different types With over 11 million customer transactions of people who shop with us, and adapting our every week, listening hard and responding Number of customer transactions business to suit their needs.
quickly is crucial as we continue to turnaround each week the business.
We have established a number We will listen even harder to our customers of ways for the whole Morrisons team to throughout 2017, as we still have more to do.
over 11m get closer to customers and improve the Serving customers better shopping trip.
Service and expertise are key parts of our Average number of customers On average we connect with over 30,000 ambition for customers.
More customers tell us per month who participated customers every month through our online in listening sessions they are either satisfied or highly satisfied with panel of customers and regular in-store their store experience and say we have started listening sessions.
They have told us about to improve on a number of the measures that changes to their shopping behaviour including over 30,000 are important to them.
shopping more frequently and looking for new products such as Free From, vegetarian and low At Morrisons we are food makers and sugar products.
shopkeepers offering good quality food at Key Measures great value.
Our customers tell us that they We are continuing to increase the breadth and rate us highly in terms of quality fresh food depth of our customer listening.
This allows us and recognise our food making credentials Satisfied with time taken to queue?
to get first hand feedback from customers on through our skilled and specialist colleagues their shopping journey.
They also associate The Morrisons MyView customer panel is us with British products, working closely with an important way of getting closer to our farmers and making more of our own food customers.
MyView allows customers to than other retailers.
contribute regularly to online discussions and Customers tell us that our in-store food surveys, giving us immediate feedback on which makers on Market Street are a unique point we can act quickly.
The panel, for example, has of difference.
Having our experts on hand helped us to improve our cafs where customer to help and advise is part of the Morrisons feedback directly led to a new caf menu with Source: Morrisons is Listening survey experience.
During the year, we made changes an expanded vegetarian range and more meals in some stores, by opening up Market Street with fewer than 600 calories.
departments such as butchery to make the Our social media channels give us access fresh food we produce in-store each day more to direct feedback from customers as do visible to customers.
customer emails and calls through to our Throughout the year, we showcased a number Contact Centre.
In this way, thousands of of Morrisons Makes It products unique customer comments can be used to improve products made by our specialist food makers, our products and our service.
each at great value for money.
We continue At Morrisons we recognise that our customers to invest in price through our Price Crunch are all different.
We have identified five family programme becoming more competitive for segments and understood what is important to customers, and developing the Morrisons price each of them regarding their shopping.
To help list for customers.
us understand the needs of each of the family We committed to improving the customer types, we have begun a six month programme experience at the checkout, particularly the where we are in regular contact with a number length of time our customers take to queue.
We talk to them regularly We have made good progress, and customers both online and through social media to tell us that this has made a big difference understand how they feel about Morrisons, to their shopping trip.
Significantly more and what we can do to improve their shopping 10 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 customers are now highly satisfied with the Listening to our customers... time taken to queue than they were in 2015.
Customers also tell us that our colleagues... and responding are friendly and we have made good progress improving the availability of products on Our More Card allows customers to collect our shelves.
points every time they shop with us.
More Card These points can be converted into savings on their shopping trip.
The More Card programme is now well established and growing in popularity.
The number of customers actively using a More Card continues to grow, meaning more customers are regularly collecting More Card points which can be converted into savings on their shopping.
The More Card programme is one of the ways the business is able to listen, expect pressure to build on imported food In addition, as we broaden Morrisons and make helping us to serve customers better and be input prices.
the brand more accessible, our addressable more competitive by providing a range of market also broadens too.
As a British manufacturer and retailer sourcing home grown product wherever possible, and as It is clear that customer shopping habits are Since November 2015, customers have been British farmings biggest single direct customer, evolving, with customers choosing to shop able to earn More Card points every time we feel well-placed to mitigate some of those more frequently and through more channels, they shop with us.
We are determined to work with with online and convenience increasingly More Card points in-store and online, when growers, farmers, manufacturers and other important markets.
they buy fuel on our forecourts and when suppliers to do the best we possibly can for they eat in our cafs.
We are following the customer into online, our customers.
Morrisons is a value brand and convenience and areas of wholesale supply.
We continue to find ways to enhance our customers respond well to us working the customer benefits of the More Card However, the supermarket channel still hard to deliver the best possible quality at programme.
We recently introduced represents the majority of the UK grocery the lowest price.
Baby & More a new way for parents and market.
It is forecast that this will continue to We do not operate in a vacuum and market parents-to-be to enjoy offers and earn be the case for many years.
Therefore, making forces are very important.
For example, the additional More Card points on the babyour core supermarkets strong again is a key current oil price rise has been putting pressure related products they buy.
In addition, priority for our turnaround.
on prices at the pump, making household food customers can now save for Christmas We also have exciting opportunities to provide budgets tighter for our customers.
We are also using their More Card with our Christmas our customers with more popular and useful mindful of other market and economic factors Savers programme.
services when they visit our stores.
So, our such as rising property, employment, energy market is widening into other areas outside and distribution costs.
The market of, but complementary with, food retail.
While recognising the volatility of the various The UK food retail market remained highly market forces, we plan for them and can work competitive throughout the year.
Our turnaround is about investing expect that to change during 2017 18.
We will in opportunities and good execution, and is learn from the constantly evolving market more in our control than it is dependent on the and our competitors, and believe that intense market.
If we continue to serve our customers competition can again bring out the best better, we expect to continue to recover in Morrisons.
Morrisons whatever the prevailing food retail market conditions.
The longer term impact of Brexit is still unknown.
Specifically for food shoppers, if sterling stays at its currently low level we would 11 Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Performance review continued Our colleagues Listening to colleagues is informing our plan Our colleagues have a say in what matters The opportunity to develop and grow HIGHLIGHTS Listening is fundamental to shaping our During the year, we have focused on developing colleague-led turnaround plan.
Our Your our colleagues to achieve our priorities and to People progressing from the Say survey was completed in March 2016 support our turnaround.
shop floor to more senior by two-thirds of colleagues and included over positions in 2016 17 This year we designed our My Job and Our 69,000 free text comments, every one of five ways of working programmes which have which was read.
been delivered to all of our store managers 920 Our measure of overall colleague engagement and Buying teams.
These colleagues spent time was over 75% in 2016 and included understanding their roles and developing both Number of store managers improvement in all business areas.
Each area their technical and leadership skills.
In 2017, we who participated in of the business saw an improvement in key intend to extend the programme to all our My Job training questions such as I receive a fair days pay for store management teams and to Manufacturing, the work I do and I am proud to work here, Logistics and People teams.
reflecting our significant payroll investment, 491 To support our food makers and shopkeepers especially the increase to 8.20 per hour for we trained over 6,000 colleagues on Fruit & Veg all our store colleagues.
during 2016 and trained 2,500 new Retail team We introduced Your Say forums in July 2016 managers on the technical skills for their role.
across all stores and sites for colleagues at all Our apprentice and graduate programmes levels.
These are colleague driven groups that remain popular, with around 200 colleagues are empowered to listen hard and respond starting their career on one of our schemes quickly to make Morrisons a better place to in areas including craft skills, engineering and work and shop.
Any suggestion which cannot finance.
Accelerated learning programmes in be acted upon locally is sent centrally for Manufacturing and Logistics have continued review and response.
to provide a way to fast track colleagues to Listening to our colleagues... gain new skills at pace, and progress to the Highly valued and treated with respect next stage in their career plans.
It is critical that colleagues feel valued and... and responding We made a commitment to all colleagues that they share in the success of the business.
Our annual Mastercraft competition across the business that they will have a career The business wide colleague bonus scheme has been extended to Manufacturing conversation every year.
This has supported was changed for 2016 17 with each store or us in managing our talent and succession plans colleagues and more categories.
site rewarded for performance against service more effectively, leading to successfully placing measures which they can influence directly.
individuals into key roles across the business.
In its first year, the new measures resulted Our five ways of working in a payout equivalent to around 9% of the We held our sixth annual Mastercraft underlying profit before tax.
During the year, competition in November.
Mastercraft is our Our five ways of working, introduced we launched a new uniform for store colleagues in-house competition celebrating the talent across the business during 2016, provide the which is better suited to each role.
In addition, of our very best food makers and shopkeepers framework of how we operate as a business we now provide a free laundry service for that we have in our business.
and colleagues are reviewed against them colleague uniforms in all our fresh food areas.
as part of their annual performance review.
The title of Mastercraft Champion 2016 was The five ways of working are: Having listened to our colleagues we have contested by 46 finalists including for the developed a new recognition programme which first time colleagues from our Manufacturing Customers first has been introduced across all business areas business across Butchery, Fish, Deli, Bakery, Teamwork during 2016.
The new Thank You programme Cake Shop, Wine, Fruit & Veg and Flowershop.
Freedom in the framework gives our managers the tools and freedom to The day was a huge success and highlights what Listening and responding be able to recognise their colleagues in a way makes Morrisons unique, our food making and which is personal to them.
shopkeeping skills, through our talented in-store Selling, controlling costs, growing profits, and site colleagues.
removing waste 12 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Our suppliers Working closely with our supply chain to improve the shopping trip for customers Our turnaround is powered by listening and Our supply chain HIGHLIGHTS that will define how and what we improve.
Our vertically integrated business model We work closely with our suppliers to build means we control more of our supply chain Percentage of Morrisons branded beef, strong, mutually beneficial relationships and and have closer relationships with farmers lamb, pork, chicken, milk and eggs to ensure the best results for our customers.
We have greater control over sourced in the UK supply chain visibility, quantity and quality, Strong supplier relationships which reduces risk as we know where our food 100% Our ambition is always to have lasting, comes from.
These relationships allow us to mutually beneficial arrangements with our better understand our supply chain and work suppliers, responsible and fair trading terms together to ensure the highest quality and Suppliers taking part in our and practices in line with the Groceries Supply ethical standards.
listening survey Code of Practice GSCOP.
We work closely We take pride in our British heritage and buy with our suppliers to encourage and promote British wherever possible.
100% of our Morrisons responsible practices throughout the supply over 500 branded beef, lamb, pork, chicken, milk and chain, helping to ensure sustainable supply eggs are sourced in the UK.
Buying British for future generations.
reduces food miles, adds to the national During the year, we worked on improving the economy, strengthens agricultural industries way we buy our products to buy and sell and supports rural communities.
This included simplifying our supplier In October 2015, we launched our For Farmers arrangements to facilitate relationships built range, giving customers the choice to buy a on trust and teamwork, allowing us to speed brand of products where a clear element of the up, be more competitive and ultimately serve proceeds goes back to farmers.
During the year, customers better.
we have increased the range to 15 product lines, Our ways of working with our suppliers covering milk, cream, cheese, butter and bacon.
centre around building a culture of putting Customers value this choice and these options customers first, mutual respect and listening.
have proved popular, with strong sales across We have been listening hard to our suppliers the range.
For example, over 58 million litres of as we continue to turnaround the business.
Milk for Farmers has been sold in our stores.
During 2016, we conducted an independent The range has generated over 5m of additional Listening to our suppliers... supplier listening survey in which over 500 income for farmers, since it was launched.
This survey, which will Read what weve been doing in our Corporate... and responding be repeated regularly, builds on our day-to-day responsibility section on page 20. interactions with suppliers and allows us In October 2015, we launched Milk For to understand views across many different Farmers.
We have since expanded the categories.
We understand that how we range to 15 product lines.
need to work with our suppliers will differ by category and according to size of supplier.
This survey allows us to gain a significant Modern Slavery statement level of insight into how we can work more Morrisons is subject to the provisions effectively with all our different suppliers.
of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Group will publish its first statement this year in line with the required timescales.
A copy of the statement will be available on www.
com and submitted to the Business and Human Rights Resource Centres BHRRC Central Registry for Modern Slavery Statements.
