STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES DIRECTORS REPORT Principal risks Financial and business reporting Capital structure The Directors submit the Annual Report of The Board has continued to place great emphasis on risk The Board believes that the disclosures set out in the Strategic The structure of the Companys share capital is detailed in Note 30 Polymetal International plc together with the management in 2017 taking into account material external economic Report on pages 1 to 74 of this Annual Report provide the to the financial statements.
There are no specific restrictions on the audited financial statements of Polymetal and geopolitical challenges and considering the Groups information necessary for shareholders to assess the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
regulated by the Articles of the Company and applicable legislation.
International plc for the year ended The detailed assessment of principal risks and uncertainties The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 31 December 2017. facing the Group is set out on pages 68 to 74 of this Annual Report.
the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer Directors of shares or on voting rights.
The Directors, their status and Board Committee memberships Corporate governance The corporate planning process is underpinned by life-of mine are set out on pages 76 to 77 of the Report.
Refer to pages 75 to 85 for a description of the Groups corporate plans and stress scenario testing.
The stress tests are designed The Articles of the Company can be altered by a special resolution governance structure and policies.
to evaluate the resilience of the Group to the potential impact of of the Company.
A resolution is a special resolution when it is Appointment and replacement of directors principal risks and the availability and effectiveness of the mitigating passed by three-quarters of the members who being entitled to The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, Going concern actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or do so vote in person, or by proxy, at a General Meeting of the either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director and, in either case, In assessing its going concern status, the Group has taken account occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the likely Company.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles, the Directors have whether or not for a fixed term.
Irrespective of the terms of his or her of its financial position, anticipated future trading performance, effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards the power to allot Equity Securities as defined in the Articles.
appointment, a Director so appointed shall hold office only until the its borrowings and other available credit facilities, and its forecast regular monitoring and review of risk and internal control systems, next AGM.
If not re-appointed at such AGM, he or she shall vacate There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate compliance with covenants on those borrowings and its capital as discussed on pages 86 to 91, were taken into account.
As at 31 December 2017, upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements and employees share plans.
the Group held US$36 million of cash and had net debt of Key assumptions The Company may, by ordinary resolution, remove any Director from US$1,420 million.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has undrawn None of these is considered to be significant in terms of their likely The key assumptions underpinning the Boards assessment include office notwithstanding any provision of the Companys Articles or impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the facilities of US$1,361 million, of which US$1,266 million were gold and silver prices, production volumes, foreign exchange rates of any agreement between the Company and such Director, but considered committed.
Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and the ability to roll forward borrowing facilities as they fall due in without prejudice to any claim that he or she may have for damages and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss the ordinary course of business.
The key assumptions made are for breach of any such agreement.
No special notice needs to The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
consistent with those used for business planning purposes, and also be given of any resolution to remove a Director and no Director having taken account of reasonably possible changes in trading Substantial shareholdings in the Company are disclosed on page 194. for the assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability proposed to be removed has any special right to protest against his performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to of ore stockpiles and heap leach work in progress.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, appoint Details of employee option schemes are set out in the Remuneration continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months another person in place of a Director removed from office.
from the date of this report and that it is appropriate to adopt the Report on page 97.
There were no acquisitions of the Companys In making forecasts, full consideration has also been given to own shares in 2017. going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial all other principal risks to the business.
These risks have been Directors interests statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. considered in our stress testing where appropriate, or are Information on Directors interests in shares of the Company is As at 31 December 2017, the Group and its subsidiaries held considered to be either immaterial or too remote to affect set out in the Remuneration Report on page 106. no treasury shares 31 December 2016: no shares.
Longer-term viability statement our viability over a three-year period.
Management proposes the following long-term viability statement As at 31 December 2017, the Company had shareholders Directors indemnities in 2017 Annual Report with reference to discussions on strategy, The risks are considered individually and in aggregate, authority to purchase up to 43,011,266 of its own ordinary shares.
To the extent permitted by the Companies Jersey Law 1991, objectives and business model: where appropriate.
the Company has indemnified every Director and other officer At the AGM of the Company held in 2017, the power to allot Equity of the Company other than any person whether an officer or not Viability statement Liquidity and solvency Securities was renewed up to an aggregate number of 143,370,887 engaged by the Company as auditor out of the assets of the Based on key drivers and measures of success used within the The sources of funding available to the Group are set out in ordinary shares, provided that the Directors power in respect of Company against any liability incurred by him or her for negligence, business, the Board assessed the prospects of the Group, taking Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our base case such an amount may only be used in connection with a pre-emptive default, breach of duty, breach of trust or otherwise in relation to the account of potential impact of the principal risks to the Groups projections demonstrate that the Group should be able to operate issue as defined in the Articles.
This provision does not affect any indemnity business model and ability to deliver its strategy, including solvency within the currently available debt facilities and comply with all to which a Director or officer is otherwise entitled.
and liquidity risks during the reasonably reliable lookout period.
The Directors are further empowered pursuant to Article 12.4 of related covenants during the lookout period.
The committed undrawn facilities of US$1,266 million noted above have an average the Companys Articles to allot Equity Securities for cash as if Political donations Article 13 of the Articles Pre-emptive rights did not apply and Lookout period period of maturity of four years.
The Company may not make a political donation to a political for the purposes of paragraph b of Article 12.4 of the Articles, The period over which the Board considers it possible to form a party or other political organisation, or to an independent election Our stress testing focuses in particular on significant adverse changes the Non Pre-emptive Shares as defined in the Articles are an reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, based candidate, or incur any political expenditure, unless such donation in market prices of gold and silver or foreign exchange rates and aggregate number of up to 43,011,266 ordinary shares.
on the stress testing and scenario planning process employed by or expenditure is authorised by an ordinary resolution of demonstrates that under reasonably possible downside gold and the Group, is the three-year period to December 2020.
This is within shareholders passed before the donation is made or the expenditure silver price and exchange rate assumptions, the Group will continue The authorities above will, unless previously revoked or varied, the Groups existing medium-term forecasting performed on the incurred.
No such donations were made in 2017 2016: none.
expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or, if earlier, maintaining liquidity and covenant compliance.
annual basis and covering strategic and investment medium-term at the close of business on the date which is 15 months after the planning.
The Board is confident that routine operational risks are date of the resolution which granted them, being 16 August 2018.
Expectations being effectively monitored and managed within the three-year lookout period and corporate scenario planning is focusing primarily The Board confirms that taking into account the Groups current on plausible changing external factors with a reasonable degree of position and based upon the robust assessment of the principal confidence whilst still providing an appropriate longer-term outlook.
risks facing the Group and stress testing-based assessment of the Groups prospects, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2020.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 112 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 113 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES DIRECTORS REPORT D DI IRE REC CTO TOR RS S RE RESP SPO ON NS SI IB BI ILIT LITY Y S ST TA AT TE EM MEN ENT T The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Pursuant to Article 57 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Dividends the Company is authorised to make market purchases of and financial statements in accordance with applicable law that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial The Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the ordinary shares of the Company, provided that: and regulations.
attributable to equity holders of the Company was US$354 million financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 2016: US$395 million.
Underlying net earnings adjusted for the the maximum number of ordinary shares to be purchased is Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the after-tax amount of impairment charges, foreign exchange gains 43,011,266 ordinary shares: for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention losses and change in fair value of contingent consideration liability to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In August 2017, the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the for each ordinary share is 1 penny: the Company declared an interim dividend of US$0.14 per share European Union IFRS.
The financial statements are required by law The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 2016: US$0.09 per share, which was paid in September 2017. the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey the corporate and financial information included on the Companys The Directors have proposed the payment of a final dividend of for each ordinary share is the higher of: Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that website.
Legislation in the UK and Jersey governing the preparation US$0.30 per share 2016: US$0.18 per share.
financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation a. an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
quotations of an ordinary share in the Company as derived Annual General Meeting requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five The AGM of shareholders of the Company will take place other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and Responsibility statement business days immediately preceding the day on which the on Wednesday 25 April 2018 at 11 am BST to be held at recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and etc.
venues Monument, 8 Eastcheap, London, EC3M 1AE, UK.
out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework the financial statements, prepared in accordance with b. an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair Auditors independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors are London Stock Exchange Trading System: of this Annual Report confirms that: taken as a whole: and also required to: pursuant to Article 58A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit the management report, which is incorporated into the strategic properly select and apply accounting policies: the Company may hold as treasury shares any ordinary shares information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and report, includes a fair review of the development and performance purchased pursuant to the authority conferred in this resolution.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner of the business and the position of the company and the the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next information: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties of any relevant audit information and to establish that the AGM or 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, that they face.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Groups auditor is aware of that information.
being 16 November 2018 whichever is earlier.
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to By order of the Board, Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and Approval of share issues, consideration for which does not conditions on the entitys financial position and financial as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint it will be proposed at exceed US$25 million, is delegated to any Director holding the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews performance: and any executive office.
both the level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue in fees as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the As of 9 March 2018, the total issued share capital of the Company operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the comprises 430,115,480 ordinary shares of no par value, each audit process.
reasonably reliable lookout period of three years.
During the year, 1,853,142 ordinary shares in the Bobby Godsell Having taken all matters considered by the Board and brought to Company were issued as follows: 893,575 shares for additional 25% the attention of the Board during the year into account, we are Chairman of the Board of Directors stake in Tarutin deposit: 815,348 shares as payment for a deferred satisfied that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced consideration for the acquisition of the Primorskoye property, and understandable, and provides the information necessary for 144,219 shares in accordance with the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
On behalf of the Board Vitaly Nesis Group Chief Executive Officer 9 March 2018 Bobby Godsell Chairman 9 March 2018 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 114 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 115 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Opinion Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement In our opinion the financial statements: Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about report, add or draw attention to in respect give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in of these matters.
then ended: preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : and the financial statements.
have been properly prepared in accordance with Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is We have audited the financial statements of Polymetal International PLC and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to the consolidated income statement: Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were report, add or draw attention to in respect the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the of these matters.
the consolidated balance sheet: knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to the consolidated statement of cash flows: continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the consolidated changes in equity: and the related notes 1 to 34. the Disclosures on pages 68-74 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the Directors confirmation on page 112 that they have carried out a robust assessment and as issued by the IASB.
of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or Basis for opinion the Directors explanation on page 112 as to how they have assessed the prospects of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of Recoverability of exploration and evaluation assets the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
Recoverability of ore stock piles and heap leach work in progress These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was US$22 million 2016: US$21 million which was determined on the basis of adjusted profit before tax.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Scoping All reportable segments were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of the Armenian component where specific procedures were performed.
This represents a change from 2016 where the Armenian component was subject to a full scope audit.
Significant changes The recoverability of operating and development assets and goodwill is no longer considered a significant in our approach risk due to sustained stable operational performance of the assets and reduced volatility in gold, silver and copper prices.
Accounting for acquisitions is also no longer considered a significant risk as the acquisitions to which it related, being Kapan in Armenia for $38m and Komarovskoye in Kazakhstan for US$120 million, were made in the prior year.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 116 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 117 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Our application of materiality Recoverability of exploration and evaluation assets We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a Key audit matter At 31 December 2017, the Group held US$150 million in respect of exploration and evaluation E&E assets.
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in description evaluating the results of our work.
Recoverability of E&E assets is dependent on the expected future success of exploration activities.
E&E costs, including geophysical, topographical, geological and similar types of costs, are capitalised into exploration assets if Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: management concludes that future economic benefits are likely to be realised based on an assessment of exploration results and identified mineral resources.
Group materiality The evaluation of each assets future prospects requires significant judgement.
According to IFRS 6 Exploration for US$22 million 2016: US$21 million and evaluation of mineral resources, the potential indicators of impairment include: managements plans to discontinue Basis for determining We used adjusted profit before tax as a key benchmark, supported by a range of other relevant financial the exploration activities, lack of further substantial exploration expenditure planned, expiry of exploration licences in materiality metrics, for determining the Groups materiality.
This approach is consistent with our 2016 audit and has the period or in the nearest future, or existence of other data indicating the expenditure capitalised is not recoverable.
given a materiality figure which represents 4.9% of the adjusted profit before tax figure 2016: 4%.
The groups accounting policy relating to E&E assets is set out on page 131 of the annual report, along with the disclosure note on page 151, and the Audit Committees consideration of the risk on page 89.
Rationale for the The profit before tax is adjusted to exclude net foreign exchange gains and losses which could, if included, benchmark applied distort materiality year on year.
The use of this metric is consistent with our 2016 audit and has been chosen on the basis that the adjusted profit before tax is a key benchmark for management and How the We have reviewed and challenged managements assumptions used in assessing the recoverability of the Groups E&E investors to appraise the groups performance.
The adjustment for US$10 million net foreign exchange scope of our assets, the most significant being the Bolshevik asset in the Kazakhstan segment.
loss 2016: US$65 million net foreign exchange gain is not significant in 2017. audit responded We have reviewed the Board minutes to ensure there are no plans to discontinue exploration activities and reviewed the to the key audit Board-approved budget for 2018 to check that specific exploration project spend was identified where relevant.
matter We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$1.1m 2016: US$0.42m We have assessed the recoverability of assets by meeting with operational management to discuss material E&E for the group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the assets, reviewing drilling and other testing results in the year and confirming future development plans.
Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We have reviewed licence conditions to ensure there were no breaches of key terms, and no licences have expired or expire in the near term.
An overview of the scope of our audit We have performed detailed testing to assess the validity of costs capitalised in the year.
The group holds various mining assets in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia.
Our audit scope focused primarily on nine identified components Voro, Okhotsk, Dukat, Omolon, Varvara, Amursk-Albazino, Mayskoye, Kyzyl and another single component comprising the support function corporate entities such that 96% of revenue 2016: 100% and 98% of assets 2016: 97% were subject to a full scope audit.
Key No impairments of E&E assets were identified from the work performed.
observations In addition to above, we have performed specific procedures on the Armenian component that consisted of specified procedures on recoverability of E&E assets and on provisionally priced sales, and reviews of all other balances.
Recoverability of ore stock piles and heap leach work in progress At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there Key audit At 31 December 2017 the Group held US$265 million in respect of ore stockpiles and heap leach work in progress.
were no significant risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
matter The write-downs of these metal inventories in the year ended 31 December 2017 were US$18 million.
description The assessment of the recoverability of ore stockpiles and heap leach work in progress requires management The Group audit team was involved in the work of the component auditors at all stages of the audit process.
The signing partner and senior judgement in the determination of expected quantities of metal to be recovered, costs to process into concentrate members of the Group engagement team visited the head office in St. Petersburg regularly in the year and continued to follow a programme or Dor for sale, and in estimating future revenue to be realised on sale.
of regular planned visits to the Groups other business units which included a site visit to the Kyzyl mine in Kazakhstan in October 2017.
The Group audit team directed and reviewed in detail the work on significant risks performed by the component auditors.
The Groups accounting policy relating to valuation of inventory is set out on page 132 of the annual report, along with the disclosure note on page 155, and the Audit Committees consideration of the risk on page 89.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual component, which were between US$8.8 million and US$19.8 million 2016: US$10.5 million and US$18.9 million How the We have attended inventory counts performed by managements experts, performed roll forward testing from the scope of our count dates through to year end by testing managements metal inventory models and assessed managements audit responded experts methodology, expertise and objectivity.
to the key audit To challenge managements recoverability assessment, we have analysed the metal inventory balances to identify matter adverse changes in costs per unit, and reviewed the production reports specifically focusing on unusual variances in grades of ore extracted, stockpiled and processed, achieved recoveries and technical losses in comparison to prior periods and approved life of mine plans.
Where a recoverability risk has been identified, we have recalculated the projected net realisable values based on expected commodity prices, technological recoveries and costs to complete.
We challenged managements assumptions against the achieved technological recoveries, actual processing costs in the year and the approved life of mine plans.
We have also performed substantive analytical procedures on managements inventory costing calculations.
Group revenue Total assets % % Key No additional write-downs of ore stockpiles and heap leach work in progress were identified from the work performed.
observations 2 4 96 98 Full audit scope Full audit scope Specified audit procedures Specified audit procedures POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 118 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 119 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Other information Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in We have nothing Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to report in auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other respect of these than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of matters.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by our engagement letter In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine Matters on which we are required to report by exception whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in other information, we are required to report that fact.
Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or the other information include where we conclude that: proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule James Leigh, FCA 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognized Auditor Responsibilities of directors London As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 9 March 2018 statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 120 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 121 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Notes US$m US$m Notes US$m US$m Revenue 6 1,815 1,583 Assets Cost of sales 7 1,106 846 Property, plant and equipment 18 2,054 1,805 Gross profit 709 737 Goodwill 19 18 17 General, administrative and selling expenses 11 158 120 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 96 25 Other operating expenses, net 12 44 36 Non-current loans and receivables 15 10 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 20 3 Deferred tax asset 16 61 38 Operating profit 510 581 Non-current inventories 21 123 113 Foreign exchange loss gain, net 10 65 Total non-current assets 2,367 2,008 Change in fair value of contingent consideration liability 28 2 22 Current inventories 21 514 493 Finance income 4 3 VAT receivable 96 61 Finance costs 15 63 63 Trade receivables and other financial instruments 22 71 70 Profit before income tax 443 564 Prepayments to suppliers 38 31 Income tax expense 16 89 169 Income tax prepaid 6 18 Profit for the financial period 354 395 Cash and cash equivalents 23 36 48 Profit for the financial period attributable to: Total current assets 761 721 Equity shareholders of the Parent 354 395 Total assets 3,128 2,729 354 395 Liabilities and shareholders' equity Earnings per share US$ Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 26 135 133 Basic 30 0.82 0.93 Current borrowings 24 26 98 Diluted 30 0.81 0.93 Income tax payable 10 8 Other taxes payable 38 34 Current portion of contingent consideration liability 28 5 14 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Total current liabilities 214 287 Year ended Year ended Non-current borrowings 24 1,430 1,280 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Contingent consideration liability 28 57 62 US$m US$m Deferred tax liability 16 77 78 Profit for the period 354 395 Environmental obligations 25 39 37 Items that may be reclassified to profit and losss Other non-current liabilities 4 4 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 113 280 Total non-current liabilities 1,607 1,461 Currency exchange differences on intercompany loans forming Total liabilities 1,821 1,748 net investment in foreign operations, net of income tax 23 56 NET ASSETS 1,307 981 Total comprehensive income for the period 444 619 Stated capital account 30 2,031 2,010 Total comprehensive income for period attributable to: Share based compensation reserve 31 21 12 Equity shareholders of the Parent 444 619 Translation reserve 1,151 1,241 444 619 Retained earnings 406 200 Total equity 1,307 981 Notes on pages 126 to 167 form part of these financial statements.
These financial statements are approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Vitaly Nesis Bobby Godsell Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 122 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 123 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Year ended Year ended Number 31 December 31 December of shares Stated Share based Total equity 2017 2016 outstanding capital compensation Translation Retained attributable Total Notes US$m US$m Notes unaudited account reserve reserve earnings to the parent equity Net cash generated by operating activities 33 533 530 Balance at 1 January 2016 424,650,138 1,969 6 1,465 23 487 487 Cash flows from investing activities Profit for the financial year 395 395 395 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 18 383 271 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 224 224 224 Acquisitions of joint ventures and associate 20 16 21 Share based compensation 31 7 7 7 Loans forming part of the net investment in joint ventures 20 52 Shares alloted to emploees 31 110,850 1 1 Nezhda call option premium paid 20 12 Issue of shares to acquire Acquisitions of subsidiaries 4 7 107 non-controlling interest 30 898,875 14 14 Loans advanced 18 4 Issue of shares in exchange Receipt of repayment of loans provided 11 2 for asset acquisitions 4 1,120,690 11 11 11 Net cash used in investing activities 477 401 Issue of shares for business acquisition 4 1,481,785 15 15 15 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends 17 158 158 158 Borrowings obtained 24 3,108 1,436 Balance at 31 December 2016 428,262,338 2,010 12 1,241 200 981 981 Repayments of borrowings 24 3,032 1,410 Profit for the financial year 354 354 354 Dividends paid 17 138 158 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 90 90 90 Contingent consideration paid 28 5 2 Share based compensation 31 10 10 10 Net cash used in financing activities 67 134 Shares allotted to employees 31 144,219 1 1 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 11 5 Issue of shares to acquire Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 23 48 52 non-controlling interest 30 893,575 10 10 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Issue of shares for contingent consideration 815,348 10 10 10 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 36 48 Dividends 17 138 138 138 Includes US$5 million outstanding as of 31 December 2016 Note 26, paid during the year ended 31 December 2017 for Kapan acquisition.
Balance at 31 December 2017 430,115,480 2,031 21 1,151 406 1,307 1,307 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 124 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 125 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amended accounting standards adopted by the Group 1.
GENERAL The following amendments to IFRSs became mandatory effective during the year ended 31 December 2017.
The amendments generally Corporate information require full retrospective application, with some amendments requiring prospective application.
Polymetal Group the Group is a leading gold and silver mining group, operating in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative: Polymetal International plc the Company is the ultimate parent entity of Polymetal Group.
The Company was incorporated in 2010 as a Amendments to IAS 7 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses: and public limited company under Companies Jersey Law 1991 and has its place of business in Cyprus.
Its shares are traded on the London and Moscow stock exchanges.
Amendments to IFRS 12 included in Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle.
Significant subsidiaries The Group has determined these amendments do not have significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.
As at 31 December 2017 the Company held the following significant mining and production subsidiaries: New accounting standards issued but not yet effective Effective interest held, % IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15, which covers principles that an entity shall apply to report information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, Deposits and production Country of 31 December 31 December timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
Application of the standard is mandatory for Name of subsidiary facilities Segment incorporation 2017 2016 annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with earlier application permitted.
The Group has determined the impact of IFRS 15 on its consolidated financial statements with the primary focus being understanding those sales contracts where the timing and Gold of Northern Urals CJSC Vorontsovskoye Ural Russia 100 100 amount of revenue recognised could differ under IFRS 15, which may occur for example if contracts with customers incorporate Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company LLC Avlayakan Khabarovsk Russia 100 100 performance obligations not currently recognised separately, or where such contracts incorporate variable consideration.
Khakanzha plant The Groups revenue is primarily derived from commodity sales, for which the point of recognition is dependent on the contract sales terms, Svetloye LLC Svetloye Khabarovsk Russia 100 100 known as the international commercial terms Incoterms.
As the transfer of risks and rewards generally coincides with the transfer of Magadan Silver JSC Dukat Magadan Russia 100 100 control at a point in time under incoterms, the timing and amount of revenue recognised by the Group for the sale of commodities is not Lunnoe materially affected.
Arylakh For the Incoterms Cost, Insurance and Freight CIF and Cost and Freight CFR the seller must contract for and pay the costs and freight Goltsovoye necessary to bring the goods to the named port of destination.
Consequently, the freight service on export commodity contracts with CIF CFR incoterms represents a separate performance obligation as defined under the new standard, and a portion of the revenue earned under Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC Mayskoye Magadan Russia 100 100 these contracts, representing the obligation to perform the freight service, is deferred and recognised over time as this obligation is fulfilled, Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC Birkachan Magadan Russia 100 100 along with the associated costs.
Tsokol The impact of applying the change during the year ended 31 December 2017 would be to reduce revenue and operating costs respectively Dalneye by US$9 million with no impact on profit.
There would be no effect on current assets and current liabilities as at 31 December 2017.
Sopka Kvartsevaya The Group plans to use the modified approach, so the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 15 will be recognised as an adjustment to Olcha the opening balance of retained earnings as of 1 January 2018.
Albazino Resources Ltd Albazino Khabarovsk Russia 100 100 IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9.
This standard is Amur Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC AGMK Plant Khabarovsk Russia 100 100 effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and permits early adoption.
IFRS 9 provides a revised model for Varvarinskoye JSC Varvarinskoye Kazakhstan Kazakhstan 100 100 recognition, measurement and impairment of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 also includes a substantially reformed approach to hedge Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLC Bakyrchik Kazakhstan Kazakhstan 100 100 accounting.
The Group has determined the impact of IFRS 9 on its consolidated financial statements with the primary focus being on the application of the expected credit loss model under which an entity calculates the allowance for credit losses by considering on a Inter Gold Capital LLC Bolshevik Kazakhstan Kazakhstan 100 100 discounted basis the cash shortfalls it would incur in various default scenarios for prescribed future periods and multiplying the shortfalls Komarovskoye Mining Company LLC Komarovskoye Kazakhstan Kazakhstan 100 100 by the probability of each scenario occurring.
Kapan MPC CJSC Kapan Armenia Armenia 100 100 The impacts of adopting IFRS 9 on the Group results for the year ended 31 December 2017 are as follows: Going concern Impairment: The impact of the introduction of an expected credit loss model for the assessment of impairment of financial assets held In assessing its going concern status, the Group has taken account of its financial position, anticipated future trading performance, its under amortised cost would be to increase the Groups operating costs by US$4 million and decrease the Groups profit before tax by borrowings and other available credit facilities, and its forecast compliance with covenants on those borrowings and its capital expenditure US$4 million for the year ended 31 December 2017, and to reduce current assets by US$4 million at 31 December 2017. commitments and plans.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group held US$36 million of cash and had net debt of US$1,420 million, with Classification and measurement: The measurement and accounting treatment of the Groups financial assets is unchanged on application US$1,361 million of additional undrawn facilities of which US$1,266 million are considered committed.
Debt of US$26 million is due for of the new standard.
The Groups cash generation and liquidity remains strong and the Group believes it will be able to operate within existing facilities, but could secure additional financing if and when needed.
Hedge accounting: no impact as the Group does not elect to use hedge accounting.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, having taken account of reasonably possible changes in trading As these effects are considered immaterial to the Group, the Group has elected not to restate prior period on adoption of the new standard performance, show that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months from the date in 2018. of this report and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
IFRS 16 replaces the following standards and interpretations: IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease.
The new standard provides a single lessee accounting model for the recognition, measurement, presentation Basis of presentation and disclosure of leases.
IFRS 16 applies to all leases including subleases and requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all The Groups annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 are prepared in accordance with International leases, unless the lease term is 12 months or less, or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost or finance.
Application of the standard is mandatory for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier basis, except for certain financial instruments which are measured at fair value as of end of the reporting period and share-based payments application permitted.
The Group is in the process of determining the impact of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial statements.
which are recognised at fair value as of measurement date.
Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Joint Ventures: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor The following accounting policies have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended and its Associate or Joint Venture remove an inconsistency between the two standards on the accounting treatment for gains and losses 31 December 2017. arising on the sale or contribution of assets by an investor to its associate or joint venture.
Following the amendment, such gains and losses may only be recognised to the extent of the unrelated investors interest, except where the transaction involves assets that constitute a business.
In December 2015, the IASB has postponed the effective date of this amendment indefinitely pending the outcome of its research project on the equity method accounting.
The Group doesnt expect it to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 126 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 127 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value 1.
GENERAL CONTINUED at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated income The following standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective as of reporting date and are not applicable or have no effect to statement.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in equity are the Group: reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest was disposed of.
Amendments to IAS 40 Investment Property, effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2018: Goodwill and goodwill impairment Amendments to IAS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, effective for annual period beginning on or after Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is 1 January 2018: measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payments, effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2018: assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration, effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2018: and If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment, effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2019. of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of consolidations Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which Subsidiaries goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, from the date that If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the control effectively commenced until the date that control effectively ceased.
Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Acquisition of mining licences When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used The acquisition of mining licences is often effected through a non-operating corporate entity.
As these entities do not represent a business, by the Group.
it is considered that the transactions do not meet the definition of a business combination and, accordingly, the transaction is accounted for as the acquisition of an asset.
The net assets acquired are accounted for at cost.
Where asset acquisition is achieved in stages net assets All intra-group balances, transactions and any unrealised profits or losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
acquired are accounted for sum of cost of the original interest acquired and the cost of additional interest acquired.
Changes to the Groups ownership interests that do not result in a loss of control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the change in their relative Investments in associates and joint ventures interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint arrangement.
consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
Significant influence constitutes the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but does not extend to a control or joint control over the enactment of those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on the disposal is calculated as the difference between 1 the aggregated consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and 2 the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and non-controlling interests.
A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties Business combinations sharing control.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination.
When acquiring A joint operation is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute an integrated relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, rather set of activities, whether the integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed as a business by a market participant, and thus than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In relation to its interest in a joint operation, the Group recognises: its share of assets and whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, using the guidance provided in the standard.
Acquisitions of businesses are liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the joint accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the operation: and its share of expenses.
date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Transaction costs incurred in A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement and is connection with the business combination are expensed.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition may include an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration When entering in a new joint arrangement, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the parties that have joint control over the arrangement.
Contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement joint operation or rights to the net assets in a business combination.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition retrospectively with the of the arrangement joint venture, using the guidance provided in the standard.
When a joint arrangement has been structured through a corresponding adjustment against goodwill where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
Measurement period adjustments separate vehicle, consideration has been given to the legal form of the separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual arrangement and, are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period about facts and circumstances that existed when relevant, other facts and circumstances.
The measurement period may not exceed one year from the effective date of the acquisition.
The subsequent accounting for contingent consideration that does not qualify for as a measurement period adjustment is based on how the contingent Equity method of accounting consideration is classified.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not subsequently remeasured.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Liabilities and Contingent Assets or IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement with the corresponding amount being For all Russian entities the functional currency is the Russian Rouble RUB.
The functional currency of the Groups entities located and recognised in profit or loss.
operating in Kazakhstan Varvarinskoye JSC, Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLC, Inter Gold Capital LLC, Komarovskoye Mining Company LLC is the Kazakh Tenge KZT.
The functional currency of the Groups entity located and operating in Amenia Kapan MPC CJSC is the The identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: Armenian Dram AMD.
The functional currency of the parent company Polymetal International plc and its intermediate holding companies is US Dollar.
deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits, respectively: Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an investee at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Any excess liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Share-based Payment at the acquisition date: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 128 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 129 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Russian Rouble, Kazakh Tenge and Armenian Dram are not freely convertible currencies outside the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED and Armenia, accordingly, any translation of Russian Rouble, Kazakh Tenge and Armenian Dram denominated assets and liabilities into The requirements of IAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to the US Dollar for the purpose of the presentation of consolidated financial statements does not imply that the Group could or will in the future Groups investments.
Where an indicator of impairment exists or the carrying value of the asset contains goodwill with an indefinite useful life, realise or settle in US Dollars the translated values of these assets and liabilities.
the entire carrying amount of the investment including goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36 as a single cash generating unit through the comparison of its recoverable amount the higher of value in use and fair value less Foreign currency transactions costs to sell with its carrying amount.
Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Any reversal Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currencies foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36. on the dates of the transactions.
All monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of When a Group entity transacts with its investees, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the investee are recognised in the transaction.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date on which the most recent fair Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or the jont venture that are not related to the Group.
Exchange differences arising from changes in exchange rates are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Exchange differences generated by monetary items that forms part of the intragroup net investment in the foreign operation are recognised Functional and presentation currency in the consolidated financial statements within foreign currency translation reserve.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all Russian entities the functional currency is the Russian Rouble RUB.
The functional currency of the Groups entities located and Property, plant and equipment operating in Kazakhstan Varvarinskoye JSC, Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLC, Inter Gold Capital LLC, Komarovskoye Mining Company LLC is the Kazakh Tenge KZT.
The functional currency of the Groups entity located and operating in Amenia Kapan MPC CJSC is the Mining assets Armenian Dram AMD.
The functional currency of the parent company Polymetal International plc and its intermediate holding companies Mining assets include the cost of acquiring and developing mining assets and mineral rights.
Mining assets are depreciated to their residual is US Dollars.
values using the unit-of-production method based on proven and probable ore reserves according to the JORC Code, which is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared.
Changes in proven and probable reserves are dealt with prospectively.
Depreciation is charged The Group has chosen to present its consolidated financial statements in U. S. Dollars US$, as management believes it is a more on new mining ventures from the date that the mining asset is capable of commercial production.
In respect of those mining assets whose convenient presentation currency for international users of the consolidated financial statements of the Group as it is a common presentation useful lives are expected to be less than the life of the mine, depreciation over the period of the assets useful life is applied.
currency in the mining industry.
The translation of the financial statements of the Group entities from their functional currencies to the presentation currency is performed as follows: Mineral rights for the assets under development are included within Exploration and development.
When a production phase is started, mineral rights are transferred into Mining assets and are depreciated as described below.
all assets and liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates at each reporting period end date: all income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions Capital  that are translated at rates on the date of such transactions: Capital  assets are measured at cost less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented as movements relating to the effect of translation to the Groups presentation currency within the Translation reserve in equity: and Exploration and development assets in the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash balances at the beginning and end of each reporting period presented are translated Mineral exploration and evaluation costs, including geophysical, topographical, geological and similar types of costs, are capitalised into using exchange rates prevalent at those respective dates.
All cash flows in the period are translated at the average exchange rates for exploration assets if management concludes that future economic benefits are likely to be realised based on current internal assessment the periods presented, except for significant transactions that are translated at rates on the date of transaction.
of exploration results and identified mineral resources.
On the disposal of a foreign operation i. e. a disposal of the Groups entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of Exploration and evaluation expenditures are transferred to development assets when commercially-viable reserves are identified, so that the control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that entity first establishes proved-and-probable reserves in accordance with JORC Code and respective mining plan and model are prepared includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation, and approved.
At the time of reclassisfication exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment based on the economic all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners of the Company are models prepared.
reclassified to profit or loss.
The costs to remove any overburden and other waste materials to initially expose the ore body, referred to as stripping costs, are capitalised In the case of a partial disposal that does not result in the Group losing control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, as a part of mining assets when these costs are incurred.
the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For all other partial disposals i. e. reductions in the Groups ownership interest in associates or jointly Non-mining assets controlled entities that do not result in the Group losing significant influence or joint control, the proportionate share of the accumulated Non-mining assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
When parts of an item of exchange differences is reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
property, plant and equipment are considered to have different useful lives, they are accounted for and depreciated separately.
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identifiable assets and liabilities acquired arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each reporting period.
Estimated useful lives are as set out below: Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
Machinery and equipment 5 20 years The Group translates its income and expenses in presentation currency on a monthly basis.
During the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 exchange rates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements were as follows: Transportation and other assets 3 10 years Russian Kazakh Armenian Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Rouble Tenge Dram US Dollar US Dollar US Dollar Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the assets carrying amount at the date.
The gain or loss arising is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
31 December 2017 Year ended 57.60 332.33 484.10 Stripping costs Average 58.35 326.02 482.71 During the production phase of a mine when the benefit from the stripping activity is the improved access to a component of the ore body Maximum monthly rate 59.96 338.78 486.51 in future periods, the stripping costs in excess of the average ore to waste ratio for the life-of-mine of that component are recognised as a non-current asset.
After initial recognition, the stripping activity asset is depreciated on a systematic basis unit-of-production method Minimum monthly rate 56.43 312.48 478.25 over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body made accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
31 December 2016 Year ended 60.66 333.29 483.94 Estimated ore reserves Average 67.07 341.81 480.49 Estimated proven and probable ore reserves reflect the economically recoverable quantities which can be legally recovered in the future from known mineral deposits.
The Groups reserves are estimated in accordance with JORC Code.
Maximum monthly rate 77.23 361.53 493.83 Minimum monthly rate 62.20 332.19 474.10 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 130 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 131 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Effective interest rate method The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument and of allocating interest income or Leases expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments including Operating leases all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals arising under through the expected life of the financial instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Financial assets Impairment of property, plant and equipment Non-derivative financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: FVTPL, available for sale AFS financial assets and An impairment review of property, plant and equipment is carried out when there is an indication that those assets have suffered an loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the carrying amount of the asset is compared to the estimated recoverable amount of the recognition.
No financial instruments have been classified as available for sale and FVTPL.
asset in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The carrying amounts of all the cash-generating units are and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Interest income is determined assessed against their recoverable amounts determined based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation.
Fair value is based on the by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
application of the Discounted Cash Flow Method DCF using post-tax cash flows.
The DCF method is attributable to the development of proved and probable reserves and certain resources where a relevant resource-to-reserve conversion ratio can be reasonably applied.
Impairment of financial assets If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Financial assets asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial consolidated income statement.
recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
For equity investments classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the original carrying amount that would For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Impairment loss may be subsequently reversed if there has been a significant change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation: or Inventories the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.
Metal inventories Inventories including refined metals, metals in concentrate and in process, dor and ore stockpiles are stated at the lower of production cost For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the assets carrying or net realisable value.
Production cost is determined as the sum of the applicable expenditures incurred directly or indirectly in bringing amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
inventories to their existing condition and location.
Work in-process, metal concentrate, dor and refined metal are valued at the average total production costs at each assets relevant stage of production i. e. the costs are allocated proportionally to unified metal where unified The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade metal is calculated based on prevailing market metal prices.
Ore stockpiles are valued at the average cost of mining that ore. Where ore receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered stockpiles and work in-process are not expected to be processed within 12 months, those inventories are classified as non-current.
uncollectible, it is written-off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for that product based on forward metal prices for inventories which are expected to be realised within 12 months, and the flat long-term metal prices non-current inventories, less estimated costs to complete production and For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease selling costs.
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the consolidated income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed Consumables and spare parts does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Consumables and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average moving cost.
The portion of consumables and spare parts not reasonably expected to be used within one year is classified as a long-term asset in Derecognition of financial assets the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest Financial instruments in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are added Financial liabilities to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in the Other financial liabilities consolidated income statement.
Other financial liabilities including borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial Instruments Designated as Fair Value Through Profit and Loss FVTPL Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial instrument other than a financial instrument held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or in the consolidated income statement.
the financial instrument forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information Embedded derivatives about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and related to those of the host contracts and the hybrid contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
Further details of derivative financial instruments Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial instruments at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 28.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 132 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 133 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Borrowing costs Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Current and deferred tax Cash and cash equivalents Current and deferred tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when they relate to items that are recognised in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, cash deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax is also recognised in or fewer, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Uncertain tax positions Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provision for uncertain tax positions is recognised within current tax when management determines that it is probable that a payment will be made to the tax authority.
For such tax positions the amount of the probable ultimate settlement with the related tax authority is recorded.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date, When the uncertain tax position gives rise to a contingent tax liability for which no provision is recognised, the Group discloses tax-related taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to contingent liabilities and contingent assets in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Revenue recognition Environmental obligations Revenue is derived principally from the sale of gold and silver bullions and copper, gold and silver concentrate and is measured at the fair An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts.
development or ongoing production of mining assets.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value using a risk-free rate applicable to the future cash flows, are provided for and capitalised at the start of Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion and sale of copper, gold and silver concentrate is recognised when the risks and rewards of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement over ownership are transferred to the buyer, the Group retains neither a continuing degree of involvement nor control over the goods sold, the the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset in the cost of sales line and the unwinding of the discount on the provision in amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the the finance costs line.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided Group.
Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion represents the invoiced value of metal shipped to the buyer, net of value added tax VAT.
for at their net present values and recognised in the consolidated income statement as extraction progresses.
Sale of gold and silver bullion Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes The Group processes dor produced in the Russian Federation at Dukat, Okhotsk operations, Voro, Omolon, and Amursk-Albazino into in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the cost of the related London Good Delivery Bars prior to sale.
This final stage of processing is carried out on a toll-treatment basis at four state-owned refineries.
asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in The Group sells gold and silver bullion to banks through long-term agreements.
The sales price, as determined in the agreement, may be the consolidated income statement.
variable based upon the London Bullion Market Association LBMA spot or fixed price, however the Group does not enter into fixed price contracts.
For domestic sales, title passes from the Group to the purchaser at the refinery gate with revenue recognised at that point.
For The provision for closure cost obligations is remeasured at the end of each reporting period for changes in estimates and circumstances.
export sales, once the gold and or silver bars have been approved for export by Russian customs, they are then transported to the vault of Changes in estimates and circumstances include changes in legal or regulatory requirements, increased obligations arising from additional the purchaser, which is typically located in London.
Title passes and revenue is recognised at the point when the gold and or silver bars are mining and exploration activities, changes to cost estimates and changes to the risk free interest rate.
Employee benefit obligations Sales of copper, zinc, gold and silver concentrate Remuneration paid to employees in respect of services rendered during a reporting period is recognised as an expense in that reporting The Group sells copper, zinc, gold and silver concentrate under pricing arrangements where final prices are determined by quoted market period.
The Group pays mandatory contributions to the state social funds, including the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation and prices in a period subsequent to the date of sale.
Concentrate sales are initially recorded based on forward prices for the expected date of Kazakhstan, which are expensed as incurred.
Revenue is recorded at the time of shipment, which is also when risks and rewards pass to the buyer.
Revenue is calculated based on the copper, zinc, gold and silver content in the concentrate and using the forward London Bullion Market Association LBMA or Taxation London Metal Exchange LME price to the estimated final pricing date, adjusted for the specific terms of the relevant agreement.
Until final Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Income taxes are computed in accordance with settlement occurs, adjustments to revenue are made to take into account the changes in metal quantities upon receipt of new information the laws of countries where the Group operates.
Revenue is presented net of refining and treatment charges which are subtracted in calculating the amount to be invoiced.
Current tax The Groups sales of copper, zinc, gold and silver concentrate are based on a provisional price and as such, contain an embedded derivative that is The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated income required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes.
The host contract is the receivable from the sale of the concentrate at the statement because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items that are never taxable or deductible.
forward exchange price at the time of sale.
The embedded derivative, which does not qualify for hedge accounting, is measured at FVTPL with The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
changes in its fair value recognised within revenue in the consolidated income statement for each period prior to the final settlement.
Deferred tax Share-based compensation Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to account for share-based compensation.
IFRS 2 requires companies to recognise statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all compensation costs for share-based payments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets The fair value of the awards granted under Performance Share Plan as defined in the Remuneration report is estimated using a and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business Monte-Carlo model valuation see note 31. combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Awards which are granted under Deferred Share Awards plan and are released over a period of three years, are measured at share price Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, and at a grant date and are prorated across periods to the different vest dates see Note 31. interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as a general, administrative and selling expense over the vesting period with a with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against corresponding increase in the share-based compensation reserve.
Upon the exercise of the awards the amounts recognised within which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
the share-based compensation reserve are transferred to stated capital account.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 134 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 135
