PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 30 Financial review Asia Regional highlights Revenue S trong second half performance for Asia driven by continued improvement in results in Australia, despite 222.7m tough trading conditions.
2016: 188.2m A further year of good growth momentum in Indonesia with new product launches performing well.
The Imperial Leather range was completely refreshed with new products such as body perfumes and the Cussons Kids range was also completely relaunched.
Significant refresh of the Raffertys Garden and five:am brands.
Renovation growth Significant brand renovations Overall profitability for the smaller Asian businesses in successes for the Imperial Leather, Thailand and the Middle East were in line with prior year.
Cussons Kids, Raffertys Garden and five:am brands.
In Australia, tough trading conditions In Indonesia, continued revenue and were evident in all categories, profit growth was achieved for the year Imperial Leather particularly during the first half of the significantly ahead of country GDP Body Mist year.
A stronger second half performance growth.
This was achieved through was achieved through a significant successful renovation and innovation The fragrance market in Indonesia refresh of the Raffertys Garden and across the market leading Cussons Baby offersour Imperial Leather brand the five:am brands, the launch of new brand as well as significant new product opportunity to tap into a growing market products across all categories as well as launches across Imperial Leather and segment of consumers who like to layer margin improvement projects across the Cussons Kids which took place during multiple fragrance products as part of business.
The improvement in thesecond half of the year.
The Imperial their body care regime.
profitability is successfully being Leather range was completely refreshed Created by Seven Scent, the Groups maintained and the business is now well with new products such as body master perfumers, Asias new Imperial Leather body mist range consists of five placed to achieve growth across the perfumes and the Cussons Kids range body mist variants, complementing the broad portfolio of Personal Care, Home was also completely relaunched.
existing range of body wash products.
Care, Beauty and Food & Nutrition.
The launch has been supported by a TV Overall profitability for the smaller Asian campaign, showing how consumers can businesses in Thailand and the Middle layer fragrance to achieve the biggest, East was in line with the prior year.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 31 Original Source Relaunch for #PackMoreIn Cussons Kids Range reaches over The Cussons Kids range was relaunched 20million consumers at the end of 2016, providing a complete range of kids toiletries including body wash, shampoo, colognes and oral care.
The Original Source #PackMoreIn campaign was developed to support the The brands characters Captain brands positioning of packing more in Energizeand Princess Lovely have been to our products and was designed to modernised to reflect the active lifestyle allow consumers to pack more in to kids can enjoy while staying clean and their lives.
The campaign ran in Australia, protected.
The relaunch has been Indonesia and the UK.
supported by an integrated TV and media campaign featuring the body The initiative was supported with an careranges and the oral care range onpack promotion allowing consumers which includes toothpaste, toothbrush to win one of four intense, natural and mouthwash.
experiences including bungee jumping or cage diving with sharks.
The campaign was brought to life through engaging experience videos featured across digital platforms, linked to high profile social media influencers.
In total, the campaign reached over 20 million consumers, driving Original Source to its highest ever brand share of 8.9% of the shower gel category in the UK.
