PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 32 Financial review Europe Regional highlights Revenue Robust performance in UK washing and bathing division underpinned by product renovation and despite tough 280.9m trading conditions.
2016: 275.8m Significant innovation within Beauty division including the launch of a new range of products targeting millennials under the Being by Sanctuary Spa sub-brand.
In the UK, the Imperial Leather range was completely relaunched and successful product launches for Carex andOriginal Source took place.
Innovation growth Greece and Poland performance both slightly ahead Significant brand renovation and innovation projects have been oftheprior year.
completed for St. Tropez, Sanctuary Spa, Carex, Imperial Leather and Original Source.
In the UK, performance in the washing In the Beauty division, whilst first half and bathing division has been robust performance was affected by a poor Sanctuary Spa launches with renovation and innovation summer last year which impacted sales new premium feel continuing to drive good performance of St. Tropez in the UK, performance across Imperial Leather, Carex and inthe second half across St. Tropez, Sanctuary Spas renowned body care Original Source despite competitive Sanctuary Spa, Charles Worthington and range has been upgraded with new long market conditions.
The Imperial Leather Fudge has been strong.
A full relaunch lasting fragrance technology designed range has been completely relaunched ofthe Sanctuary Spa brand took place toprolong the usage experience of during the year and successful product with a new product range and a more thebrands iconic scent on the skin.
launches have taken place under the premium look and feel.
A new sub-brand, Thepackaging has also been modernised Carex and Original Source brands.
Being by Sanctuary Spa, was launched with accents of rose gold to give a luxe feel to the products for better standout Operational excellence and customer towards the end of the financial year on shelf and to reinforce Sanctuary Spas service, underpinned by the world-class targeting younger millennial consumers position as the No1 indulgent bathing factory and innovation centre in with a range of 46 products.
The new design marks a Manchester, remains important in ofnew product launches have taken celebration of what Sanctuary Spa stands servicing the broad customer and place across the other brands including for and the premium outer packaging consumer base.
anew-to-market St. Tropez self-tan face now matches the decadent experience mask.
Growth of St. Tropez in selected that the formulations inside deliver.
premium retailers in the US has been strong and US sales now represent approximately 20% of the divisions revenue.
Profitability in the smaller markets of Poland and Greece was slightly ahead ofthe prior year.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 33 Original Source Milks grow market share Last years Original Source Milks launch was successful for new product development achieving a market share of 1.4% in the shower gel category.
The range is proving to be a compelling consumer proposition based on the ingredient trend of natural milks combined with the brands heartland ofintense, 100% natural fragrances andvegan certified claims.
The range isalso resonating with a younger audience and adding incremental value.
Carex Love Hearts A key part of the Carex brand is its Fun Editions range which offers interesting and engaging fragrances to make St. Tropez handwashing more fun and enjoyable.
The new Being brand breakthrough Last year, we restaged the Fun Editions range with the launch of a Love Hearts has millennial appeal innovation variant under licence from confectionery manufacturer Swizzels.
This product has In May 2017, our Beauty division launched This year, St. Tropez launched a first to proven to be extremely popular with a bold, sassy and young brand aimed at market Self Tan Bronzing Face Sheet 2.4 m bottles sold last year.
We have Generation Z 18-25 year olds called Mask which skillfully merged St. Tropezs runanumber of impactful marketing Being by Sanctuary Spa.
This consumer leading DHA technology with the latest campaigns featuring the Love Hearts segment represents a quarter of the sheet mask technology to boost the product, including offering consumers UKpopulation and holds significant penetration of tanning actives for an the chance to win personalised bottles.
spending power in the washing and accelerated facial tan.
The brand has Extensive research ensured that we international listings and is available developed the ideal fabric composition inthe UK at Boots.
The range will also and texture to provide the best besold in North America later this year.
spreading and absorption for the new Digital marketing and key influencers tanning serum.
The mask offers have played a role in launching the brand moisturising technology containing with social media targeted to establish hyaluronic acid and pentavitin to boost the brand identity.
Being by Sanctuary the skins hydration.
St. Tropezs Self Tan Spa is made up of 45 products across Bronzing Face Sheet Mask technology fivefragrances which pack a punch.
