PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 28 Financial review Africa Regional highlights Revenue All businesses in Nigeria traded relatively well despite significant year-on-year currency devaluation and lack 305.6m ofliquidity.
2016: 357.2m Groups diverse brand portfolio working well with product offerings at all price points catering for a consumer under significant inflationary pressure.
S trong local brands, local product manufacturing and anextensive distribution network.
Innovation growth In the smaller markets, profitability in Ghana was lower The region has been helping than the previous year due to tough trading conditions consumers to carry on buying their favourite, trusted brands anda volatile exchange rate, profitability in Kenya was through the innovation of creating ahead of the prior year.
a greater choice of pack sizes and price points.
In Nigeria, low oil prices have contributed network.
The Nigerian consumer is under Nigeria results and assets are translated to an environment of reduced income for significant inflationary pressure with most into Sterling using the interbank exchange the country leading to continued pressure of their staple purchases, both local and rate in compliance with International on the currency.
The introduction of a imported, doubling in cost over the last Financial Reporting Standards.
Revenue in new flexible exchange rate regime in year.
The consumers preference is the PZ Wilmar joint venture was 156.9m June 2016 led to a 50% devaluation of therefore to buy trusted local brands 2016: 175.8m with profit before tax at the Naira to US Dollar on the interbank andPZ Cussons is able to tailor sizes to key 5.8m 2016: 6.4m.
The joint venture is market.
Liquidity at this rate has price points to ensure consumer needs are equity accounted for and therefore whilst generally been poor throughout the met.
In addition, as a result of the reduced the revenue is not consolidated, the yearalthough there has been some currency availability, priority has been Groups 50% share of profit after tax is improvement during the second half.
given towards purchases of materials for included within the Africa regional result.
Further currency requirements have our larger, faster moving product lines.
therefore been obtained through the In terms of the smaller African markets, secondary market where rates have All business units across Personal Care, whilst profitability in Ghana was lower beenvolatile and significantly higher Home Care, Electricals and Food & than the previous year due to tough than the interbank rate.
All businesses in Nutrition have performed relatively well trading conditions and a volatile the Nigerian market have therefore been in this challenging trading environment exchange rate, profitability in Kenya changing pricing and sizing of products with market shares either held or grown, was ahead of the prior year.
to reflect both their blended actual although volumes in all categories are costand future replacement costs.
lower as a result of changes to relative pricing.
Achievement of a Sterling profit PZ Cussons remains well placed to deal result for Africa only slightly lower than with these challenges with strong local the previous year represents a good brands, local manufacturing for all performance considering the significant products and an extensive distribution level of price, cost and volume volatility.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 29 Morning Fresh launches new sachet pack Morning Fresh dish wash liquid continues to maintain its No1 spot in Nigeria and Kenya delivering innovation within the category.
This year the brand introduced greater consumer choice with the development of a new small pack 25ml sachet.
This first for the Dish Care category enabled Morning Freshs loyal consumers to stay with the brand they know and love at prices that match their disposable income.
Olympic grows brand affinity and market share The Olympic milk brand continued to strengthen its brand positioning of Active Tempo Multipurpose for Longer and establish differentiation Range within the Nigerian market.
The endorsement from our brand New Imperial Leather ambassador, R&B singer Peter Okoye, In Fabric Care, we relaunched Tempo Deo Spray engaged thousands of consumers with Multipurpose Detergent in a new pack his Instagram posts and generated over size, keeping the brand within reach of 50,000 views on the airing of Olympics our consumers and maintaining a critical We have successfully launched the new TV commercial.
price point in an environment of low Imperial Leather deodorant spray range consumer disposable income.
The brands association with Manchester across our key African markets of Kenya City Football Club and sponsorship We also leveraged a similar strategy for and Ghana, and most recently in Nigeria.
of an international 5-a-side football the Dish Care liquid category, where our This range expansion is in line with our competition have also been key factors Morning Fresh is the premium market strategy of stretching the brands in driving consumer affinity.
leader, by launching a new value offering strongheritage from wash to body care.
with Tempo Multipurpose Liquid Wash. Thenew range also helps to enhance These new products have enabled us to Imperial Leathers reputation of offering long-lasting luxury products with offer Nigerian consumers optimum value, through a combination of multipurpose inspiring fragrances to meet the evolving needs of our consumers.
formulations and affordable pack sizes.
