[TEMPLATE] Accounting Policies The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements, except IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, has been applied for the first time in 2007 with the 2006 comparatives restated accordingly.
A BASIS OF PREPARATION The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 121 to 125.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2008.
The financial statements are presented in the Groups functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
The accounting for the disposal of properties to CDLHT in 2006 has been adjusted in respect of the land lease element of the transaction on the 75-year leases of the Orchard Hotel and M Hotel.
In the 2006 Financial Statements the proportion of the consideration received as prepayment by CDLHT of the operating lease of the land was effectively netted off against the freehold land value for these two hotels.
Freehold land has been restated to the value before the transaction and the deferred income arising from the lease prepayment has been recognised on the balance sheet at the value at the date of the transaction of 87.5m.
In addition, certain comparatives have been restated to comply with the current years presentation.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that investment properties and, from 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale, are stated at their fair value.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies headline operating profit, other operating income and impairment of the Group together with the other operating income, interest, tax and minority interest elements of its share of joint ventures and associates profit for the year.
This is in accordance with IAS 1.
Presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
Headline operating profit may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The Directors intend to follow such presentation on a consistent basis in the future.
Uses of estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statement in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgements in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 31 Accounting estimates and judgements.
i Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 but not relevant The following standards, amendments and interpretations are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 but the application of these standards has no material effect on these accounts to the Groups operations: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment ii Forthcoming interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been adopted by the Group.
The following standards and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 or later periods but that the Group has not elected for early adoption: IFRS 8, Operating Segments mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 introduces the management approach to segment reporting.
IFRS 8 will require the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each segments performance and to allocate resources to them.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to result in amendments to segmental disclosure.
Millennium & Copthor Millennium & Copthor ne Hotels plc ne Hotels plc | Annual Repor | Ann t & Accounts 2007 ual Report 2007 71 71 [TEMPLATE] Accounting Policies Revised IAS 23, Borrowing Costs mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 removes the option to expense borrowing costs and requires that an entity capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
The Group will apply IAS 23 from 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to have any material impact on the Groups accounts, as the Group currently capitalises borrowing costs where appropriate.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 requires a share-based payment arrangement in which an entity receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity instruments to be accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction, regardless of how the equity instruments are obtained.
The Group will apply IFRIC 11 from 1 January 2008, with retrospective application required.
It is not expected to have any material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 addresses the accounting by entities that operate, or otherwise participate in, customer loyalty programmes for their customers.
It relates to customer loyalty programmes under which the customer can redeem credits for awards such as free or discounted goods or services.
The Group will apply IFRIC 13 from 1 January 2009 and expects the impact to be immaterial.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 clarifies when refunds or reductions in future contributions in relation to defined benefit assets should be regarded as available and provides guidance on the impact of minimum funding requirements MFR on such assets.
It also addresses when a MFR might give rise to a liability.
The Group will apply IFRIC 11 from 1 January 2009, with retrospective application required.
The Group has not yet determined the potential effect of the interpretation.
iii Forthcoming standards and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant for the Groups operations: IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to control, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Joint ventures and associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence or joint control respectively commences until the date that it ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate or joint venture, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of joint venture partners and associates.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
C FOREIGN CURRENCY i Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
72 72 Millennium & Copthor Millennium & Copthor ne Hotels plc ne Hotels plc | | Ann Ann ual Repor ual Repor t & Accounts 2007 t 2007 [TEMPLATE] ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the foreign operation.
D DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
E HEDGES i Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction still is expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
F PROPERTY, PLANT, EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION Land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under IFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Millennium & Copthor Millennium & Copthor ne Hotels plc ne Hotels plc | Annual Repor | Ann t & Accounts 2007 ual Report 2007 73 73 [TEMPLATE] Accounting Policies Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP are measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, are treated as a base stock upon initial hotel opening.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks are written off as incurred to the income statement.
G LEASES i Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within creditors.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals payable by the Group under the operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
In cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incured in earning the lease income are recognised as an expense.
ii Lease premium On occasion the Group makes and receives initial payments on entering into both long and short leases of land and buildings.
As leases of land are normally classified as operating leases if title is not expected to pass, the element of the payment attributable to land is recorded on the balance sheet as lease premium prepayment and is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the purchase of leases of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the lease prepayments.
In the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the balance sheet as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and non-current liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
H IMPAIRMENT The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
74 74 Millennium & Copthor Millennium & Copthor ne Hotels plc ne Hotels plc | | Ann Ann ual Repor ual Repor t & Accounts 2007 t 2007 [TEMPLATE] Impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Where permissable under IFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
I INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 40: Investment Property.
An external, independent valuation company, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The Groups associated undertaking, CDLHT, holds hotel assets which are leased to both the Group and external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreements involved.
For the purposes of the preparation of the Groups financial statements, to the extent that these assets held by CDLHT qualify to be accounted for as investment properties in accordance with IAS 40, the Group equity accounts for its share of CDLHTs fair value change within its overall share of profits from associates.
Such share of fair value change is recorded as a share of other operating income of associates in the Groups income statement.
Where in the Groups view, the indicators of the lease arrangement are of an owner-occupied property, the property is accounted for in the Groups financial statements as part of CDLHTs property, plant and equipment with the Groups share of CDLHTs results for the period incorporating an appropriate depreciation charge.
J INVENTORIES Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
K DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are held for sale in the short-term and are therefore classified as current assets.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
L CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
M BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
N INCOME TAX Income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences Millennium & Copthor Millennium & Copthor ne Hotels plc ne Hotels plc | Annual Repor | Ann t & Accounts 2007 ual Report 2007 75 75 [TEMPLATE] Accounting Policies are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: ii and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
O EMPLOYEE BENEFITS i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses within the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period in which they occur.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
iv Share-based payment transactions The share-based incentive schemes allow Group employees to acquire shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The fair value of options and awards granted are recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to exercise options granted or for share awards to vest.
The fair value of the share awards or grants are measured using a stochastic model, taking into account the performance conditions applying to the share options and awards.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
P PROVISIONS A provision is recognised on the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Q REVENUE AND ITS RECOGNITION Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: 76 76 Millennium & Copthor Millennium & Copthor ne Hotels plc ne Hotels plc | | Ann Ann ual Repor ual Repor t & Accounts 2007 t 2007 [TEMPLATE] Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: REIT managers management fees earned from CDLHT and recognised on an accrual basis based on the applicable formula as described in note 29: Income from property rental recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Land, development property and property sales recognised when legal title transfers provided the related significant risk and rewards of ownership have passed by that date.
R DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
S SEGMENT REPORTING The Groups primary reporting format is two business segments, hotel and property operations, with each segment representing a business unit that offers different products and serves different markets.
The hotel operations comprise income from the ownership and management of hotels.
Property operations comprise the development and the sale of land and development properties and investment property rental income.
The Groups secondary reporting format is geographic location.
The hotel and property operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in six principal geographical areas: New York, Regional US, London, Rest of Europe, Asia and Australasia.
T NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their disposal is considered highly probable.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Then on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying value amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in the income statement, even for assets measured at fair value, as are gains and losses on subsequent re-measurement.
U OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Trade investments are classified as available for sale assets and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairments.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
V RELATED PARTIES For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Millennium & Copthor Millennium & Copthor ne Hotels plc ne Hotels plc | Annual Repor | Ann t & Accounts 2007 ual Report 2007 77 77
