Notice of Annual General Meeting The 2008 annual general meeting of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company will be held at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP on Wednesday 7 May 2008 at 10.00 am to consider, and if thought fit, to pass the resolutions set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 14 to 16 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Ordinary Business Resolution 1 That the Companys accounts, Directors report and auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2007 are received.
Resolution 2 That the final dividend of 10.42p per ordinary share recommended by the Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 payable on 16 May 2008 to holders of ordinary shares registered at the close of business on 25 March 2008 is declared.
Resolution 3 That Kwek Leng Beng is re-elected as a Director.
Resolution 4 That Kwek Leng Joo is re-elected as a Director.
Resolution 5 That John Arnett is elected as a Director.
Resolution 6 That Connal Rankin is elected as a Director.
Resolution 7 That KPMG Audit plc is re-appointed as the Companys auditor from the end of this meeting until the end of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Resolution 8 That the Directors are authorised to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
Special Business Resolution 9 That the Directors Remuneration Report set out in the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 is approved.
Resolution 10 That the Directors are authorised to exercise the power in Article 129 A of the Companys Articles of Association so that, to the extent determined by the Directors, the holders of ordinary shares be permitted to elect and receive new ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in respect of all or part of any dividend declared or paid at or after this meeting and before the start of the Companys annual general meeting in 2013.
Resolution 11 That the provisions of the Co-operation Agreement dated 18 April 1996, as amended by which the Company agrees that it shall use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that any issue of voting securities other than pursuant to an employee or executive share option scheme for cash which takes place is carried out in a manner that provides City Developments Limited with an opportunity to acquire additional ordinary shares at the time of such proposed issue for cash in such amounts as are necessary to enable it to maintain its voting rights in the Company at the same level as is held immediately prior to such issue be renewed for the period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys annual general meeting in 2009.
Resolution 12 That, in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company at the time at which this resolution is passed or at any time during the period for which this resolution has effect are authorised to: a make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates, as defined in sections 363 and 364 of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 100,000 in total: b make political donations to political organisations other than political parties, as defined in sections 363 and 364 of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 100,000 in total: and c incur political expenditure, as defined in section 365 of the 2006 Act, not exceeding 100,000 in total: during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on 30 June 2009 or, if sooner, the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2009.
In any event, the aggregate amount of political donations and political expenditure made or incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries pursuant to this resolution shall not exceed 150,000.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 129 Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 13 That, in substitution for all existing unexercised authorities, the authority conferred on the Directors by article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed unless previously renewed, varied or revoked for a period ending on the earlier of 30 June 2009 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting and for that period, the Section 80 Amount is 29,637,645.
Resolution 14 That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the authority conferred on the Directors by article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed unless previously renewed, varied or revoked for a period ending on the earlier of 30 June 2009 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting and for that period, the Section 89 Amount is 4,445,646.
Resolution 15 That the Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as defined in section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 30p each in the capital of the Company on the following terms: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 29,637,645 representing 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 19 February 2008 : b the minimum price, exclusive of costs, which may be paid for each ordinary share is 30p: c the maximum price, exclusive of costs, which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to not more than 105 per cent of the average of the market value for the share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: d this authority expires unless previously renewed, varied or revoked on the earlier of 30 June 2009 or the date of the Companys next annual general meeting: and e before this authority expires, the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under this authority which would or might involve the Company purchasing its own shares after this authority expires.
Resolution 16 That, with effect from conclusion of the meeting, the Articles of Association contained in the document produced to the meeting, and for the purpose of identification marked A and signed by the Chairman of the meeting, be approved and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the current Articles of Association of the Company.
By order of the Board Adrian Bushnell COMPANY SECRETARY 19 February 2008 Registered Office Victoria House Victoria Road Horley Surrey RH6 7AF United Kingdom 130 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 NOTES 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting convened by the notice set out above may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not subsequently preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person if he or she so wishes.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by the member.
To appoint more than one proxy you should contact the Companys Registrar at the following address: Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL.
A form of proxy for use at the meeting is enclosed.
To be valid, the form of proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the office of the Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the annual general meeting.
Information regarding electronic and CREST voting is shown below.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting, and for the purposes of determining how many votes the member may cast, members must be entered in the Companys register of members at 6 pm on 5 May 2008 or in the event of any adjournment 6 pm on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries in the register of members after that time are disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
As at 18 February 2008 being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 296,376,450 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 18 February 2008 are 296,376,450.
The following documents may be inspected during business hours at the Corporate Office, Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London W8 5SR and at the Companys registered office on a weekday public holidays excluded until the time of the meeting and at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until the end of the meeting: a copies of all service contracts between the Directors and the Company and the terms and conditions of appointment of non executive Directors: b a copy of new Articles of Association proposed to be adopted.
Members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should do so using the following means: i by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address: ii by writing to the Registrar at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL: or iii by using the Shareholder Helpline: 0871 3842343.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or in any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 131 Notice of Annual General Meeting INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Electronic Proxy Voting You may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy or voting instructions for the meeting electronically by logging on to www.
You will need your Reference Number this is the 24-digit number printed on the face of the accompanying Form of Proxy.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
The proxy appointment and or voting instructions must be received by Equiniti not later than 10.00am on 5 May 2008.
Please note that any electronic communication sent to the Company or the Registrar that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
The use of the internet service in connection with the annual general meeting is governed by the Registrars conditions of use set out on the website, www.
co. uk, and may be read by logging on to that site.
If you are not planning to come to the meeting and wish to vote on any of the resolutions the Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Form must be returned to Equiniti, Aspect house, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL to arrive no later than 10.00am on 5 May 2008.
If the card is posted in the UK, IOM or Channel Islands there is no postage to pay.
CREST Voting CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 7 May 2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Numbers or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
132 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
