25 Financial instruments continued Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily the US dollar and the euro.
Such risks can arise from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange risks arise in a subsidiary when future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies different to the entitys functional currency.
To manage this risk the subsidiary enters into forward contracts with Group Treasury.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each currency that arises from such exposures by using forward currency contracts with relationship banks.
Each subsidiary designates contracts with Group Treasury as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges, as appropriate.
Foreign exchange contracts taken with relationship banks are designated at Group as hedges of foreign exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis and are treated as cash flow hedges.
The Groups risk management policy is to hedge all contractually committed transactions as they occur.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash, bank balances and trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high-quality financial institutions.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk, with exposures spread over a large number of customers and counterparties.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from floating rate bank loans and from cash held on deposit.
The Groups cash balances are kept in interest bearing current accounts and on short-term deposit, so as to maximise the level of return while maintaining an adequate level of liquidity.
The Group does not invest surplus funds in long-term fixed interest securities, and is therefore not exposed to any significant fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups borrowings are primarily at variable interest rates, which expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Interest rate caps are used to protect the Group against significant increases in interest rates.
26 Provisions for liabilities and charges Regulatory Contingent reviews and considerall figures in millions Lapse complaints Property ation Other Total At 1 June 2006 38.9 41.6 19.3 0.1 0.8 100.7 Additional provisions charged to income statement 24.9 1.0 1.3 27.2 Unwinding of discount 0.8 0.5 0.7 2.0 Release of provisions 0.1 0.1 Utilisation of provisions 31.5 20.9 5.1 0.3 57.8 On acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.5 0.5 Transfer to Assets held for sale 33.1 21.1 0.3 0.6 55.1 At 31 May 2007 15.6 0.6 1.2 17.4 Analysis of total provision Current 5.6 0.1 1.2 6.9 Non current 10.0 0.5 10.5 15.6 0.6 1.2 17.4 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 85 Notes to the financial statements
