Notes to the Company financial statements A.
Accounting convention and policies Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The business activities of the Group expose it to financial risks Accounting convention that arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost interest rates.
The Company, on behalf of the Group, uses convention in accordance with the applicable UK Accounting forward currency contracts and interest rate caps to hedge Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and the accounting policies these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial set out below.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised directly in Share incentive schemes equity where they are designated as effective hedges of future The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based cash flows.
The ineffective portion of the hedge, where it occurs, compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
If the received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised item being hedged is a non-financial asset or liability then the as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the associated gains or losses on the associated derivative that had vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the previously been recognised in equity are included in the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting measurement of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Conversely if the item being hedged is a financial asset or Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions liability, any amounts arising from changes in fair value that are about the number of options that are expected to become deferred in equity are subsequently recognised in the profit and exercisable.
loss account in the same accounting period in which the hedged item affects net income.
At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, If the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the where they are not designated as effective hedges of future cash charge to the profit and loss account is adjusted over the flows, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any remaining vesting period of the options.
changes in the fair value of the underlying transaction are also recognised in the profit and loss account.
Where a financial The share-based payment charge is recharged as an expense to instrument does not qualify for hedge accounting, any changes the relevant employing subsidiary.
in the fair value are recognised in the profit and loss account as it arises.
Taxation Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, Hedge accounting of a transaction is discontinued when the together with deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is recognised, hedging instrument is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not the hedging instrument no longer qualifies for hedge reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events accounting.
Under these circumstances any cumulative gain or have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay loss on the hedging instrument, which has already been more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
recognised in equity, is retained in equity until the transaction occurs.
However, if a hedged transaction is no longer expected Fixed assets to occur, any net cumulative gain or loss that has already been Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the profit and Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write loss account.
off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset, over its expected useful life.
The residual values and useful economic Cash flow disclosure lives of fixed assets are reviewed annually.
Freehold land is not The Company is included within the consolidated financial depreciated, freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years.
statements of Misys plc and has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the Investments terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash Flow Statements.
Investments are shown at cost less any provision considered necessary for impairment.
The need for any impairment write down is assessed by comparison of the carrying value of the asset against the higher of net realisable value or value in use.
The value in use is determined from estimated discounted future cash flows.
Discount rates used are based on the cost of capital of the Company.
Bank borrowings Borrowings are initially stated as the net proceeds, being the principal loan element, net of issue and finance costs.
Issue costs together with finance costs are allocated to the profit and loss account over the term of the facility at the effective rate of interest.
Accrued finance costs attributable to borrowings where the maturity at the date of issue is less than 12 months are included in other payables within current liabilities.
For all other borrowings, accrued finance charges and issue costs are included in the carrying value of those borrowings.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 95 Notes to the Company financial statements
