Accounting policies Basis of preparation date is on or after 1 January 2009, with earlier application The financial statements have been prepared in accordance permitted.
It is not anticipated that this amendment will have with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that Capital Disclosure introduces disclosures about the level of an are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
entitys capital and how it manages capital.
It is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
The amendment The consolidated financial information has been prepared will cause a change in the disclosure of capital information but under the historical cost convention, except as described will have no impact on classification, recognition or valuation.
under the heading Financial Instruments.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment, states Basis of consolidation that impairment losses on goodwill and certain financial assets The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial recognised in an interim financial statement may not be statements of Misys plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
reversed in subsequent interim or annual financial statements.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities This interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of or after 1 November 2006.
It is not currently expected for this acquisition.
interpretation to have a material impact on the Group.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any provides guidance on whether share-based transactions deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of involving Group entities should be accounted for as equityidentifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition settled or cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
It is is credited to income in the period of acquisition.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
It is not currently expected for this interpretation to have a Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period have material impact on the Group.
been included in the financial statements from the date of acquisition.
Subsidiary undertakings disposed of are included in Critical accounting estimates and judgements the financial statements up to the date of disposal.
Accordingly, Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement based on historical experience and other factors, including of recognised income and expense and the consolidated cash expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable flow statement include the results and cash flows for the under the circumstances.
The preparation of financial period of ownership.
statements under IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates group of assets through a sale transaction rather than through and assumptions, actual outcomes could differ from those continuing use, and a sale is considered highly probable at the assumptions and estimates.
balance sheet date, the assets are classified as held for sale and measured at lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements arise in relation If the group of assets constitutes a separate major line of to revenue recognition, the impairment of intangible assets, business it is classified as a discontinued operation.
No including goodwill, recognition of provisions in respect of depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of nononerous property contracts, regulatory reviews and complaints current assets classified as held for sale.
provisions within Sesame, uncertain tax positions and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The accounting policies in Recent accounting developments respect of these items are set out below and further details IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires of the estimates and judgements impacting the financial disclosures that enable users to evaluate the significance of statements are set out in notes 4, 17, 18, 26 and 27. the Groups financial instruments and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments.
The standard is effective Revenue recognition for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received The expectation is that the disclosure of financial instrument or receivable from clients for goods and services provided information will change but there will be no impact on the by the Group, net of discounts and sales taxes.
recognition or valuation of the Groups financial instruments.
Revenue from system sales is recognised when a signed IFRS 8 Operating Segments, which will replace IAS 14 contract exists, delivery to a customer has occurred with Segment Reporting, adopts a management approach under no significant vendor obligations remaining and where the which segmental information is presented on the same basis collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
as that used for internal reporting purposes.
Assuming its In instances where a significant vendor obligation exists, endorsement by the EU it will be effective for annual periods revenue recognition is delayed until the obligation has been beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Whilst the standard will satisfied.
No revenue is recognised for multiple deliveries not impact the financial position of the Group it is possible that or multiple element products if an element of the contract future segment reporting disclosures may change.
remains undelivered and is essential to the functionality of the elements already delivered.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get of the contract.
Revenue from EDI and remote processing ready for use or sale.
The revised standard applies to borrowing services transaction processing is recognised as the services costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement are performed.
64 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Revenue from professional services, such as implementation, those actually achieved are charged or credited to the training and consultancy, is recognised as the services statement of total recognised income and expense as are performed.
Revenue on certain larger composite contracts is recognised Leases on a percentage of completion basis over the period from the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms commencement of performance on the contract to customer of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards acceptance.
The degree of completion of a contract is of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as measured using the costs incurred to date or milestones operating leases.
reached, depending upon the nature of the individual contract and the most appropriate measure of the percentage of Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are completion.
Losses on contracts are recognised as soon capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or present as a loss is foreseen by reference to the estimated costs of value of the minimum lease payments and are depreciated over completion.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Within Sesame, commission revenue received from insurers The interest elements of the lease obligations are charged based on gross premiums written is presented gross of to income on an actuarial basis over the period of the lease.
commission payable to Independent Financial Advisors IFAs Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income and is recognised when earned.
Annual fees received from on a straight line basis over the lease term.
certain IFAs for industry training, compliance support and access to Misys networks listing of insurance providers and Onerous property contracts products are recognised over the relevant subscription period.
Provision for onerous lease commitments is based on an estimate of the net unavoidable lease payments on these Share incentive schemes properties, being the rental due, plus any termination costs, The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based less any income expected to be derived from the properties compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services being sublet.
The provisions are discounted at an appropriate received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised rate to take into account the effect of the time value of money.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of Taxation the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth together with deferred taxation.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in recognised, using the liability method, in respect of all assumptions about the number of options that are expected to temporary differences that have originated but not reversed become exercisable.
at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
If the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent charge to the income statement is adjusted over the remaining that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits vesting period of the options.
from which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted, or where there are deferred tax liabilities against Pensions which the assets can be recovered.
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax these pension schemes are charged to the income statement rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing as incurred.
In addition, the Group has a closed funded defined differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted at the benefit pension scheme in the UK, as well as a number of balance sheet date.
other smaller defined benefit arrangements outside the UK.
The remaining active members of the closed UK defined Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement benefit scheme now contribute to a defined contribution except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly section of the scheme.
Full independent actuarial valuations to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
are carried out on at least a triennial basis and updated to each balance sheet date.
The assets of the schemes are held Foreign currencies separately from those of the Group.
Items included in the financial statements of Group companies are measured using the currency of the primary economic Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
environment in which each entity operates, their functional Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high in sterling.
quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is Each overseas operation translates foreign currency recoverable or deficit is recognised in full on the balance transactions into their own functional currency at rates ruling sheet.
Any current or past service cost is recognised in the at the date of each transaction.
Foreign currency monetary income statement.
The net of the expected increase in the assets and liabilities are retranslated at rates ruling at the present value of the schemes liabilities, and the Groups longbalance sheet date, and currency translation differences are term expected return on its schemes assets, are included in recognised in the income statement.
On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are Any difference arising from experience or assumption changes translated to sterling at the average exchange rate for the and differences between the expected return on assets and period, and their assets and liabilities are translated at Misys plc Annual Report 2007 65 Accounting policies Accounting policies exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Currency Capitalised expenditure on developed software is normally translation differences are recognised in the translation reserve.
amortised on a straight line basis over the useful economic life, once the related software product is available for use.
Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings used to finance an equity investment in an overseas operation Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software are offset in reserves against the exchange differences arising licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, on the retranslation of the net investment, up to the level of the are capitalised at cost and amortised over their useful investment.
The exchange differences on any ineffective portion economic lives.
Intangible assets acquired through a business are recognised in the income statement.
combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows, foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
with amortisation made on a straight line basis: When a foreign operation is disposed the cumulative Acquired intangibles 4-10 years translation differences that relate to it including changes to any Developed software 3-5 years long-term intra-group borrowing are removed from equity and Third party software 3-5 years recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment The Group hedges its exposure to certain foreign exchange Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated risks using derivatives and foreign currency borrowings.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis of the accounting policies in respect of these are given in the so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of financial instruments section.
each asset, over its expected useful life.
The residual values and useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are Business combinations reviewed annually.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the consideration, net of costs, less the Groups interest in the fair value of the Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful lives by major identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
class of asset applied from the date of purchase are: Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset.
It is not Freehold and leasehold property 50 years amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually and Short leasehold property over lease term whenever there is a potential indicator of impairment.
Any Computer and other equipment 4-10 years impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment of assets On the disposal of a previously acquired subsidiary, the Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are attributable amount of goodwill is included in the reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Contingent consideration Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually.
An impairment contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying recorded is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable expected to be payable in the future.
amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments continuing to be made For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
These at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable liabilities are reported under provisions in the balance sheet.
Other intangible assets and research and development An asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future expenditure economic benefits are expected from its future use or disposal.
Research expenditure, including the cost of in-house software Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is research, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
included in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical Financial instruments feasibility of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups complete the development and use or sell it: how the asset will balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the generate probable future economic benefits: and the ability to contractual provisions of the instrument.
A more detailed measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the asset description of the accounting policy for each type of significant during its development.
financial instrument is given below: Development costs which do not meet these criteria are Trade receivables recognised in the income statement as incurred and are not Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at subsequently capitalised.
The carrying value is reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
66 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Investments Hedge accounting of a transaction is discontinued when the Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date hedging instrument is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract the hedging instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned.
Investments Under these circumstances any cumulative gain or loss on are initially measured at fair value, equating to cost, including the hedging instrument, which has already been recognised transaction costs.
in equity, is retained in equity until the transaction occurs.
However, if a hedged transaction is no longer expected to Investments are subsequently measured at fair value unless occur, any net cumulative gain or loss that has already been this cannot be measured reliably by reference to quoted prices recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the in an active market, in which case they continue to be income statement.
measured at historical cost, net of any impairment.
A derivative that is embedded in another financial instrument, Financial liabilities and equity or in a host contract, is treated as a separate derivative if its Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the according to the substance of the contractual arrangements host contract.
Under these circumstances the host contract is entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that not carried at fair value but any unrealised gains or losses on evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after the derivative are reported in the income statement.
deducting all of its liabilities.
Provisions Bank borrowings Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal Borrowings are initially stated as the net proceeds, being the or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is principal loan element, net of issue and finance costs.
Issue probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle costs together with finance costs are allocated to the income the obligation: and if this amount is capable of being reliably statement over the term of the facility at the effective rate of estimated.
If such an obligation is not capable of being reliably interest.
Accrued finance costs attributable to borrowings estimated no provision is recognised and the item is disclosed where the maturity at the date of issue is less than 12 months as a contingent liability where material.
are included in other payables within current liabilities.
For all other borrowings, accrued finance charges and issue costs Exceptional items are included in the carrying value of those borrowings.
Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, these are disclosed as Trade payables exceptional within a separate line on the income statement.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in Equity instruments hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at an original maturity of less than three months that are readily the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The business activities of the Group expose it to financial risks that arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses forward currency contracts and interest rate caps to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised directly in equity where they are designated as effective hedges of future cash flows.
The ineffective portion of the hedge, where it occurs, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the item being hedged is a non-financial asset or liability then the associated gains or losses on the associated derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the measurement of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
Conversely if the item being hedged is a financial asset or liability, any amounts arising from changes in fair value that are deferred in equity are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same accounting period in which the hedged item affects net income.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, where they are not designated as effective hedges of future cash flows, are recognised in the income statement.
Any changes in the fair value of the underlying transaction are also recognised in the income statement.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 67 Accounting policies
