Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder Glossary and financial information review Acquired Sites Cover turn On-trade 239 pub restaurant sites acquired from The total number of main meals sold Any retail outlet which has a licence Whitbread PLC in July 2006. divided by the number of main meals to sell alcohol for consumption on that could be sold in one sitting.
the premises eg pubs, restaurants, Amenity nightclubs, clubs.
Design, dcor, furniture and facilities EBITDA that contribute to the environment and Earnings before interest, tax, Operating profit atmosphere of a pub.
depreciation, amortisation and Earnings before interest, tax and exceptional items.
AWT Average weekly take The average sales per pub per week, External costs Outlet employment ratio calculated as total sales divided by the Costs influenced by outside factors, Pub employment costs divided by total average number of pubs trading during ie regulatory and energy costs.
the period divided by the number of weeks in the period.
Formats Post-tax cash return Outlets where to the customers eye EBITDA less tax divided by average net Brands the business trades without any overt operating assets less revaluation reserve Outlets which trade under a common branding or badging but the customer plus accumulated depreciation plus name, or their own individual names offer and operating template are goodwill written off.
under an externally recognised group managed to defined standards.
name, with a consistent design, drinks Productivity range, menu, service style and Gross margin Sales less hourly paid wages divided by promotional programme.
Gross profit divided by sales, expressed the number of hours worked.
Business franchise Refinancing An agreement where an entrepreneur Gross profit The repayment of an existing loan with gains access to high quality pubs Sales less cost of goods sold, expressed the proceeds from a new loan.
and a sophisticated business support in monetary terms s. infrastructure whilst the Company REIT retains its scale purchasing and overhead Incremental pre-tax returns Real Estate Investment Trust advantages and shares in the trading Growth in annual pre-tax operating upside through a franchise fee.
The profit expressed as a percentage of the Same outlet like-for-like sales growth Company receives a commercial rent for associated capital investment.
For sites The increase in sales performance of all the property and retains the property which do not have 12 months postmanaged pubs that were trading for the ownership.
investment trading, incremental return two periods being compared, expressed Overview Operating and Reports financial review is estimated based on an annualisation as a percentage.
Capacity management of actual post-investment trading.
The process that seeks to ensure that Securitisation 2 Group at a glance 6 Chief executives review 28 Directors report 4 Chairmans statement of the market & strategy 30 Corporate governance a pub can service maximum volumes at IFRS A means of raising finance secured on 12 Key performance report peak trading times whilst maintaining International Financial Reporting identifiable and predictable cash flows indicators 33 Audit Committee report customer satisfaction levels.
derived from a particular set of assets.
13 Business review 35 Remuneration report 17 Financial review 46 Independent auditors 22 Risks and uncertainties report to the members Cash flow from operations National Minimum Wage Share buyback 24 Corporate social of Mitchells & Butlers plc The cash generated from the operations The minimum amount an employer The purchase in the open market by responsibility of the Company generally defined as must pay its workers as defined by law.
a listed company of its own shares.
revenues less all operating expenses.
Off-trade Uninvested like-for-like sales growth Accounts Shareholder information CAGR Any retail outlet which has a licence to The increase in sales performance Compound Annual Growth Rate.
sell alcohol for consumption off the of those managed pubs that have not premises.
received expansionary investment of 47 Group income statement 90 Mitchells & Butlers plc 100 Shareholder information Covers more than 30,000 in either year being 48 Group statement of parent company 101 Glossary The number of main meals sold.
recognised income balance sheet and expense 91 Independent auditors 49 Group balance sheet report to the members of 50 Group cash flow Mitchells & Butlers plc statement 92 Notes to the parent 51 Notes to the financial company financial statements statements 87 Five year review Front cover: The Trout Inn Premium Country Dining Wolvercote, Oxford Design and production The paper used in this Report is derived from CarnegieOrr sustainable sources This page: The Old Contemptibles Town Pub Print Birmingham Royle Corporate Print Mitchells & Butlers 101 Annual report and accounts 2007 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Mitchells & Butlers plc Mitchells & Butlers plc 27 Fleet Street Birmingham B3 1JP Annual report and accounts 2007 Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Purpose Mitchells & Butlers has a high quality, well located pub estate, focused on the long-term growth in the informal, value for money, eating and drinking-out markets.
Our operational and investment strategy is delivering better choice and value to our customers and generating profitable sales growth which is increasing our property values as well as our investment returns all to the benefit of shareholders.
Contents 2 Group at a glance 4 Chairmans statement 6 Summary operating and financial review 6 Chief Executives review 24 Corporate social responsibility 25 Finance Directors report 27 Summary financial statement 28 Board of Directors 29 Executive Committee 30 Directors report Front cover: The White Horse 30 Corporate governance report Metro Professionals 31 Remuneration report Parsons Green, London 35 Shareholder information This page: The Trout Inn 36 Glossary Premium Country Dining 37 Key brands Wolvercote, Oxford Operational highlights Financial highlights 18,500 10.1% Average weekly sales per pub Revenue 1,894m 5.1% 11.0% Same outlet like-for-like food sales Operating profit 343m before exceptional items 2.2% 21.2% Same outlet like-for-like drinks sales Earnings per share 35.5p before exceptional items million 107 16.3% Meals served this year Dividend 14.25p 1 Mitchells & Butlers Group at a glance Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Mitchells & Butlers know-how Our proven expertise at every level, combined with a pub estate of exceptional quality in prime locations, continues to deliver on our strategy of driving profitable volume growth and creating shareholder value.
Consumer relevance and format evolution Increasing property values Know-how Value and volume strategy Our people Increasing property values Our people Value and volume strategy Consumer relevance and Through the successful Key to the successful operation of Our operational strategy is to focus format evolution implementation of our operational our pubs is our ability to recruit, train on value and volume: improving the We strive to anticipate, identify and and investment strategy we are able and retain the best people.
We offer value we offer our customers leads respond to changing demographic to generate further uplifts in asset comprehensive training, so to higher volumes and improved profiles and consumer expectations values within our high quality freehold experience is not essential: however productivity.
These gains, along with by evolving our brands and formats.
estate for the benefit of shareholders.
personality and a passion for better purchasing terms, enable us customer service are critical.
to reduce costs and then reinvest the margin gains in further quality and value.
Acquired Sites pg 23 Cask ale training pg 18 Pub & Carvery pg 15 Sizzling Pub Co. pg 10 2 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Positioned for success Residential High Street With 3% of the pubs in the UK, we The majority of our pubs have prime We have successfully evolved our brands have a 10% share of pub market sales.
locations in residential areas and are and formats on the High Street over This has been achieved through a strategic therefore well positioned to take advantage a number of years and this has continued positioning of the estate to attractive of the growth in eating-out as well as to bear fruit, seeing strong growth in areas of the market, which has driven increasing our drinks market share.
our growth, particularly in food.
of main meals sold per annum 1998: 41m 3.1% 3.0% same outlet like-for-like sales growth same outlet like-for-like sales growth Growth and investment Investments in FY 2007 Our market We have invested a total of 253m in our The pub market is estimated to be worth pubs over the year.
This has enabled us over 19bn per annum.
It has benefited to develop, evolve and maintain our high over the last ten years from the growth quality estate, with significant returns in the popularity of eating-out, with Existing Sites on investment, whilst further improving approximately a third of total household Acquired Sites our relative value proposition in light New Acquisitions food expenditure now made outside the of the level of investment in the overall home.
This is in contrast to the more on-trade pub market.
traditional pub market of draught beer, which has declined, down 27% in volume since 1998.
Against this background, our strategy 1.1bn has proved exceptionally successful, Over 1.1bn UK expansionary driving market share gains in all investment over the last 16 years key categories.
Profitable market share gains 20% Food 6% 20% return on investments in the 3% core estate over the last two years Wine & 1% soft drinks -2% 20% Spirits -1% c. 20% sales uplift from -4% converted Acquired Sites Beer & 0% cider Excludes the Acquired Sites -4% MAB same outlet like-for-like volume growth White Webbs The Flask Estimated market volume growth Toby Carvery Metro Professionals based on BBPA AC Neilsen ONS Enfield Highgate, London 3 Mitchells & Butlers Chairmans statement Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Mitchells & Butlers results this year reflect Delivering shareholder value a strong financial performance and we are pleased with the operational development Since our foundation in 2003, across the business.
The executive team have been particularly effective in growing the Board has had an absolute sales and profits despite some significant economic and cost challenges, whilst also commitment to the creation and rapidly implementing the conversion of the high quality Whitbread sites acquired delivery of value to shareholders in July 2006.
We have extended our leadership of the eating-out market whether through organic growth, serving 107 million meals and generated significant drinks market share gains.
investment in the business for As a result, revenues have risen by 10%, high returns, the pursuit of value operating profits by 11% and earnings per share before exceptional items by 21%.
creative acquisitions, or a return This performance has enabled the Board to shareholders by way of dividends to recommend a final dividend payment of 10.0p per share, taking the total and share buybacks.
ordinary dividend for the year to 14.25p, an increase of 16.3%.
This payment is Roger Carr, Chairman additional to the Special Dividend of 486m paid to shareholders in October 2006 and reflects the strong growth in earnings per share, as well as our commitment to a progressive policy for dividends.
Since our foundation in 2003 the Board has had an absolute commitment to the creation and delivery of value to shareholders whether through organic growth, investment in the business for high returns, the pursuit of value creative acquisitions, or a return to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks.
With this guiding principle in mind, and recognising that a consistently higher valuation is placed by property investors on our estate than is valued within the Roger Carr Chairman The Old Bull & Bush Premium Country Dining Hampstead, London 4 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 current integrated model, the Board has REIT structure, which includes R20 There has been one change to the been investigating options for capturing procuring a fixed price underwriting for Board announced during the second half the value of the property estate for in the region of 25% of the REIT equity.
Tony Hughes, 59, stepped shareholders on a sustainable basis.
The attractiveness and feasibility of this down as Managing Director, Restaurants proposal is being explored.
A REIT on 1 October 2007 since when he has To that end, after a competitive process, structure would have to meet the Boards been assisting in the handover of his role substantial progress was made in the requirement for an appropriate balance and the further development of food summer on negotiating a joint venture to optimise the value of both demerged capabilities in the business.
He will retire transaction with R20 the investment companies as independent entities.
from the Board of the Company on vehicle of Robert Tchenguiz.
He is succeeded final stage of this transaction, we entered The Board will continue to review by Adam Fowle, previously Managing into hedging agreements which were a alternative structures that would Director for the Acquired Sites and fundamental bank requirement to secure demonstrably create value from the Business Development.
Adam has some the necessary financing arrangements property, whilst providing an attractive 20 years experience in licensed retailing, for the joint venture and to achieve long-term business model for the having joined Mitchells & Butlers in 1985. appropriate ratings from ratings operating company.
He was previously Managing Director agencies.
However, the sudden and of the Pubs & Bars division, becoming unprecedented collapse of world debt In view of the focus on Mitchells & Butlers a Retail Director at Sainsburys for two markets rendered the joint venture real estate, we considered it was important years.
He rejoined Mitchells & Butlers undeliverable but left the hedging to establish a current value of our freehold in 2005. arrangements in place.
Driven by a most and long leasehold properties and we unusual mix of inflation and interest requested Colliers CRE to update our I welcome Adam to the Board and rate expectations, combined with limited valuation as at 29 September 2007.
The would like to thank Tony for his liquidity, the cost of the hedges at the revised value of the estate in our books exceptional contribution to the Company year end, although not a cash item, had at 5bn represents a net increase over the last 12 years.
His vision and risen to 155m after tax.
The hedging of 1.1bn compared to the historical drive have been instrumental in the arrangements have been retained as the accounting basis and provides a solid and development of our highly successful Board remains committed to a property up to date foundation for judging the asset pub restaurant brands.
I wish him every based refinancing which would utilise strength of the Group in turbulent times.
them, once debt markets have recovered.
The Board will continue to balance the Because pubs are specific use assets, it Looking forward, 2008 will undoubtedly assessment of risk with potential reward is the operational success of the business be a more challenging year, with the of this policy.
which has been the primary factor in uncertain outlook for consumer confidence growing the value of our freehold property and the first year of the smoking ban.
Whilst the Boards focus has been on the and which has also enabled us to return However, I am confident that a clear establishment of a property joint venture, over 1.1bn in cash to shareholders management strategy for competitive alternative property based refinancing since demerger in 2003, over and above out-performance based on high quality structures remain under consideration.
This performance brands, excellent sites and strong In this context, the Board has received has been driven by our operational teams, operating skills will underpin the a proposal from R20 in respect of a who I believe are collectively the best in continuing progress of the Company.
demerged Real Estate Investment Trust the industry.
I would like to thank them all for their perseverance, flexibility and hard work during the year.
Value and volume cycle The success of our value and volume strategy means that we can reinvest gross margin and Reinvest margin Increase our labour productivity and in quality value value purchasing gains to provide our customers with even better quality and value.
Staff training, scheduling, incentives Reduce costs Increase volume Supply chain efficiency Increase Capacity buying power management of productivity 5 Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 Chief Executives review Strategic review Continued market out-performance Mitchells & Butlers has delivered another strong trading performance this year.
Our good results this year reflect our Like-for-like sales have grown 3%, driven by our continued focus on value, service, leadership position in the growing range and amenity.
Operating profit growth of 11% to 343m, before casual eating-out market and our exceptional items, has been generated by our efficient conversion of sales increases continued drinks market share into profits growth, through further improvements in employee productivity, gains.
Our average weekly sales per purchasing gains and effective cost controls.
Earnings per share for the year, managed pub are up 6% to 18.5k, before exceptional items, are up 21.2% well over three times that of the at 35.5p.
This is a result of the trading performance, together with the average UK pub, and we are contribution from the former Whitbread pub restaurants the Acquired Sites, now serving a total of 107 million a significant development project completed by Standard Commercial meals a year.
Property Developments Limited SCPD and the share consolidation that Tim Clarke, Chief Executive accompanied the Special Dividend in the early part of the year.
This strong performance has been delivered against a background of increasingly challenging market conditions in the second half of the year.
A softening in consumer confidence, particularly pronounced in the mid-market, driven by consecutive rises in interest rates, growing inflation pressures and an increased tax burden, was exacerbated by the volatility in the global financial markets.
In addition, industry growth was limited by a summer of prolonged poor weather.
Tim Clarke Chief Executive Travellers Rest Sizzling Pub Co. Caversham, Reading 6 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 These conditions have resulted in a These long-term trends are likely to be The strength of these strategic levers can market where we have seen the increasing reinforced by the smoking ban as new and be seen in the results we have achieved importance of food, soft drinks and lapsed customers, previously discouraged in the conversion programme on the sites wine against the decline in beer and by tobacco smoke, become regular pubacquired last year from Whitbread, of machine income.
Our experience so far suggests that which 172 have been completed so far.
large pubs, with the capability to serve Despite the substantial impact of the However, in the long term, the market for high volumes of good food at attractive poor summer weather, particularly on value for money eating and drinking out prices, will benefit from a ban on smoking.
destination pub restaurants, sales have continues to grow.
Our same outlet likeincreased by approximately 20% and we for-like food volumes increased by 6% in Mitchells & Butlers is well-placed are confident of achieving the 30% sales the year against a pub food market up 3%, to capture this long-term growth.
uplift targets in FY 2009, as indicated driven by key social changes such as the Our successful strategy of offering our at the time of acquisition.
increase in the number of women in work, customers an ever-wider choice of good the number of single households and the value food and drink in a high quality, Thus we believe we have a long-term, growth of an affluent retired population.
welcoming environment has enabled us sustainable growth model which will Since 1990, the proportion of adults to achieve good sales growth for a fourth enable us to continue to gain market visiting pubs at least monthly has risen consecutive year and positions us well to share despite the more uncertain outlook from 59% to 72%.
There has been a make further market share gains in a more for next year.
marked increase in the growth of less difficult market during the year ahead.
frequent customers since the turn of the century, who, attracted by the widening Our emphasis on innovation to develop appeal of pubs and the strengthened our brands and formats and our offers food offers, are increasingly visiting to eat.
to keep pace with fast-changing consumer The same period saw a decline in people expectations, and our relentless drive visiting the pub solely to drink, with to improve our scale efficiencies combine those visiting at least three times a week to ensure our customers enjoy the greatest dropping by more than half to 8% of possible choice, quality and value.
Our employees, recruited for their talent and personality, are trained and motivated to deliver excellent customer service.
In essence, our proven operational expertise at every level, combined with a pub estate of exceptional quality in prime locations, continues to deliver on our strategy of driving profitable volume growth and creating shareholder value.
Strategic process Outputs Our strategic decisions are made at Board level to focus operational effort in the primary growth areas of the market to maximise short and long-term value for our shareholders Area Example initiatives Market Driving food volume growth through improving 5.1% same outlet food sales growth Well positioned to capture the ongoing the quality and value offered to our customers.
2.2% same outlet drinks sales growth growth in eating-out as well as to Improving the quality and range of draught beers continue to take drinks market share.
sold and their price relative to competitors.
21.2% EPS growth Financial Strong sales and profits growth despite 8m of regulatory Driving both EPS and dividend growth, and 14m of closure and pre-opening costs.
20% incremental ROI and to invest for high returns.
Investment plans for all Acquired Sites prior to acquisition, speedy programme to be completed ahead of schedule.
70% internal succession rate People Comprehensive in-house training ensures that every to role of assistant manager Successfully recruiting, training and year, thousands of retail managers and employees retaining the right people with the complete the required professional qualifications to right personalities.
pursue their careers with us.
Pre-exceptionals On expansionary capital in the core estate over the last two years 7 Creating pubs people want to visit People come to our pubs to have a great time.
They also find good quality food and drink, a vibrant, friendly atmosphere and a high quality dcor.
The Prince Regent Metro Professionals Central London Sizzling Pub Co. Key to the success of our strategy to date has been our focus on leveraging the growth in food to attract customers to our pubs, thereby increasing higher margin, ancillary drinks sales to maximise profitability.
We also aim to reinforce the link between food and drink through our marketing activity and sales promotions.
Sizzling Pub Co. SPC was established in 2001 with only a few pubs initially trading under the format but this year it celebrated its 200th opening.
Sited in suburban locations, SPC pubs offer their local communities quality and value for money food and drinks in comfortable surroundings alongside friendly service.
Fundamental to the market outperformance of SPC is the formats ability to attract an increasing number of customers into its pubs through its great value food offer, to make incremental, full-price drinks sales to these customers.
Thus its current offer of two main meals for 6 from 2.30pm to 6.00pm Monday to Friday has seen the number of meals sold in this time-slot grow to 16,000 per week over the last two years.
The value food offer combined with other promotional activities such as weekly quiz nights, music and sports events Travellers Rest is also successful in driving repeat Sizzling Pub Co. Caversham, Reading visits by guests.
Our experts Keeping pace with change We constantly evolve our brands to suit changing consumer needs.
This year, we have refreshed our ONeills brand with a new, wider menu and a targeted investment programme.
Average weekly food sales have increased this year by over 20% across 68 sites.
25% Our own label wine has grown significantly and now represents around 25% of overall wine sales Tessa Tara Kevin Brand manager Category Procurement Menu Development manager Community pubs, manager Food Development team Marketing team Drinks Purchasing team 10 Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 continued The eating-out market, now accounting The improved quality, choice and value In soft drinks we have extended the range for approximately a third of the total of our food offers has broadened our of fresh fruit juices, cordials and mineral household expenditure on food in the customer base, attracting women, families waters.
The improved choice for customers UK, has grown steadily for many years.
and older guests as well as new pub in these categories within our Pubs & Bars However, it is only now at levels achieved visitors.
A widening customer base, division successfully drove sales growth of in the US over thirty years ago.
The pub, attracted by the food we offer, has enabled 16% from June to the year end, despite the with its informal, relaxed atmosphere and us to boost associated sales of higher poor summer weather.
variety of value for money casual dining margin drink sales.
Innovation in the offers is well placed to capture an even range of drinks we offer has been key We have installed branded coffee offers greater proportion of the growth in this to this success and we have seen our such as Costa, Illy and Segafredo in almost market, which has been accelerated by same outlet like-for-like drinks sales grow 1,200 pubs which is proving popular the smoking ban now in place for all UK by 2.2% for the year.
Our contractual with our customers coffee sales volumes pubs and restaurants.
freedom to source an increasing number have increased by 23% in the year.
The of products from a variety of producers introduction of branded coffee has worked For over a decade, Mitchells & Butlers has allowed us to extend the choice for particularly well where we have also taken has focused on developing a range of our customers across all drinks categories, advantage of the change in licensing law offers to meet consumers tastes, building including new premium products and our and the smoking ban to broaden the on consumer insight techniques to invest own label products offering great value.
reason for and time of visit to the pub.
strategically to evolve these offers to add We have focused on enhancing serve For example, we have opened for incremental value to the sites we own as quality, for example through our glycol breakfast in a number of city centre well as those we acquire.
We believe we cooling system, which improves the serve businesses such as selected Browns and have the leading portfolio of brands and consistency for the dispense of draught Nicholsons sites, which have seen formats in the industry.
products, both beer and wine.
Our own encouraging results so far.
label wine has grown to around 25% We have successfully widened the of wine sales and we have draught wine Overall, drinks volume growth has appeal of the pub to capture new areas dispense in some 630 pubs.
Draught experienced a slow down, with the onof growth in eating-out at both the higher wine sales now account for almost 10% trade beer market down 5% and the and lower scales of consumer affluence of total wine sales.
soft drinks and wine market down 2%, but continuous innovation within our However, the strong growth in our food offers is critical in order to keep pace Targeted marketing campaigns and point volumes and our drinks retailing skills with the constantly rising expectations of sale material, together with seasonal have enabled us to make substantial of customers as to food quality, the range promotions, have communicated our new market share gains in each of these of drinks on offer and the standards dishes and new drink ranges effectively to categories.
Very popular annual cask investment in each of these areas is also ale festivals run across our Nicholsons The extension of the quality of our drinks vital in widening the gap between our and Ember Inns businesses while All offers into non-traditional lines will also amenity, product range and value for Bar One is holding a Favourites Festival, add further to the attraction of our pubs money and that of the competition, showcasing a unique range of beers to new and light users.
further improving our overall customer and ciders from around the world and value proposition and our market share providing recommendations to customers gains relative to the rest of the on-trade.
on combining these beers with the In total this year, we invested 253m international tapas sharing plates available.
maintaining and upgrading our pubs.
Focus on menu development has enabled us to offer guests more variety, from sharing small plate dishes in Ember Inns 23% or hand-cut Maris Piper chips in our Coffee sales volumes up by 23% Metro Professionals format.
Cornerstone, our successful community pub format, has introduced its Best of British range which includes choices such as liver and onions 2.2% or ham hock in a West Country scrumpy Like-for-like drinks sales up by 2.2% sauce.
We have developed fresh dishes that are healthier and tastier, with a wider taste profile and better provenance for example, organically farmed Shetland salmon features on the new Vintage Inns 40 menu.
Vegetarian options are also now Across the Company, we now stock over 40 draught lagers compared available across all our pubs.
to only five draught lagers in our pubs 10 years ago.
The Old Contemptibles Classic Pub Birmingham 11 Value and volume The success of our value and volume strategy means that we can reinvest gross margin and our labour productivity and purchasing gains to provide our customers with even better quality and value.
ONeills Euston Road London Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 continued For more than a decade, Mitchells & Key to this growth is our commitment Our sophisticated scheduling and sales Butlers has undertaken a strategic to provide our customers with the best forecasting systems allow us to match ever repositioning of its estate to exploit the quality food offers possible at consistently more tightly the number of staff deployed growth areas of the market.
This year, we have maintained with the fluctuating trading patterns of acquisitions of significant pub estates, an average main meal price of 5.60 the pub.
Thus, at busy periods we can as well as individual sites with large sales, against a UK average of between 8 and move quickly to capture additional sales our businesses are now spread across Great 9 which, combined with the high level by scheduling more staff, whilst keeping Britain.
At the same time there has been a of service and amenity that our pubs offer, costs to a minimum during quieter times.
move away from the historic concentration has proved compelling to our guests.
Food This focus, together with our training of pubs in the industrial areas of the North volumes have grown by 67% over the last programmes, has resulted in a 3.9% and the Midlands to achieve a higher five years.
Purchasing and productivity increase in staff contribution per hour weighting in the more affluent and faster gains this year mean we are converting in the core estate.
Pub employment costs growing areas of the country.
As a result, sales growth very effectively into profits.
have been maintained at under 24% of 75% of our pubs are now situated sales despite the substantial real increases primarily in residential areas.
Although food is relatively lower margin, in the National Minimum Wage.
sustained and profitable volume growth Through this determined repositioning, has strengthened our negotiating position Our considerable purchasing power and we have developed a pub estate of with suppliers, driving further purchasing successful productivity systems have also exceptional quality that is predominantly gains and enabling us not only to offset driven great benefit in the Acquired Sites freehold or long leasehold and which, with increases in regulatory costs this year but where, ahead of our forecasts at the time its superior scale and location, generates to maintain retail net operating margins of acquisition, we have made 7m of sales per pub over three times higher than broadly in line with last year.
Our strategy purchasing gains during the year.
that of the average pub in the UK.
Large is to reinvest such gains back into the Source: Menurama scale, at both the corporate and individual value and quality offered to customers, pub level, has been critical in the success driving real competitive advantage and of our value and volume strategy.
The thereby creating additional impetus to size and capacity of our large pubs enable volume growth.
We will continue to us to drive high volumes of food at reinvest margin into our menu offers.
attractive prices and, this year, our same outlet like-for-like food sales increased At the pub level, increasing volume by 5.1%.
We now sell 107 million meals underpins our gains in business a year, making us the largest on-trade efficiencies.
Continuous investment in caterer in the country.
developing operating skills in the capacity management of kitchens, bars and serve times ensure high standards of service even at peak trading times.
This year, the Sizzling Pub Co. training team was highly commended in the Customer Service Training Team of the Year category in the National Customer Service Awards 2007, for its role in supporting new openings.
67% Food volumes up by 67% over last five years 5.1% Like-for-like food sales up by 5.1% 3.9% We have achieved a 3.9% increase in staff contribution per hour in the core estate.
The Coal Hole The Oakmere Nicholsons Harvester Central London Potters Bar 14 Pub & Carvery As the rise in frequent, casual eatingout among value-focused consumers has continued apace, Mitchells & Butlers has successfully evolved new formats to tap into this fast-growing area of the market.
One such format is Pub & Carvery, trialled over two years ago, and now trading in 58 sites nationally.
Serving over 2,900 meals a week, the highest we believe of any format in the industry, the brand provides a traditional, relaxed pub environment with a freshly-cooked carvery offer priced from an incredible 3.50.
For our guests, this represents better value than eating at home.
The brand has average weekly sales of almost 30k per pub and is providing very high incremental returns on investment.
107m We now serve 107 million meals per year, compared to fewer than 15 million in 1995.
The Hole in the Wall Pub & Carvery Underwood, Nottingham Our experts Food growth In a pub eating-out market that has grown by 27% since 2002, and is forecast to grow by a similar amount in the next five years, our food volumes have increased by 67%.
Additionally, our food sales mix has grown from 22% of total retail turnover in 1998 to 37% at the end of 2006.
This is anticipated to grow to over 40% in two years time when the full benefit of our successful conversion of the Acquired Sites will be evident.
Nicky Steve Michelle Retail Business manager Senior Purchasing manager Pricing manager Metro Professionals team Food Purchasing team Pricing and Insight team 5.60 Average Mitchells & Butlers main meal price.
15 People Our people are key to the successful, profitable operation of our businesses.
It is not enough to have the best pubs, brands and formats in the industry, we need the best people too.
We continually focus on recruiting, training and retaining the right people with the right personality and a passion for excellent customer service.
The Old Contemptibles Classic Pub Birmingham Cask ale training The quality of our cellar skills has been instrumental in our sustained gains in beer market share.
With the increase in demand for cask ales, Ember Inns has invested this year in specific training on the management and serve of cask ale, to ensure customers enjoy the finest quality pint possible.
Most Ember Inns are now certified by Cask Marque, an independent accreditation scheme to recognise excellence in the service of cask ale, and each pub has a beer quality champion, trained by experienced brewers.
It has been important to achieve the right balance between the traditional ale drinkers who are loyal to one or two brands with those customers seeking out new flavours.
Ember Inns typically carry at least one big-name brand or regional favourite but alongside there are a number of cask ales chosen by the customers in conjunction with the manager.
Earlier this year, Ember Inns worked with the Duchy Originals charitable brand to launch an exclusive promotion of its Organic Ale which provided our customers with an opportunity to try the beer ahead of the competition.
Duchy Originals Organic Ale The Fieldhouse Ember Inns, Solihull Our experts Operational skills Our strong like-for-like sales growth of 3% this year is a direct result of the focus and operational excellence of our people.
The recruitment and training of talented employees at all levels remains a vital element of our continued market out-performance.
Tim Donna Jenny Fire, Health & Safety manager Food Training manager Employee Communications manager Risk & Compliance team Pubs & Bars HR team Communications team 18 Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 continued Key to the successful, profitable operation At the retail level, the National Certificate The Company has had an established, of our businesses is our ability to recruit, of Personal Licence Holders NCPLH comprehensive employee communications train and retain the best people.
Our is an essential qualification to progress programme in place for over ten years.
wide range of brands and formats means to manager level and employees can A variety of channels such as team we are able to offer a huge variety of work towards this with an experienced meetings, conferences, in-house opportunities to our employees, from manager: this year, over 3,000 employees publications and the intranet keep staff bar staff to kitchen manager to chef.
achieved their NCPLH with the Company.
informed on matters relating to the We offer comprehensive training so we The internal succession rate to the post Company and its performance.
Two-way do not always require experience: however, of retail manager is around 70% for most communications between senior personality and a passion for excellent of our brands and formats.
management and employees are driven customer service are critical.
primarily through regular discussions Our training programmes are not only groups at the corporate level and Mitchells & Butlers deploys a fundamental to motivating our employees, operational communications forums.
combination of assessment centres, giving them the skills to achieve their A formal Business Forum, at which internal development centres, recruitment ambitions but also, crucially, they Executive Directors meet with elected advertising, interviewing and on-job underpin our commitment to operate employee representatives to discuss evaluation to recruit potential managers our businesses safely.
Notably, we have business concerns, takes place annually.
and assistant managers and to help people rigorous training about the responsible develop their careers.
At the same time retailing of alcohol to give our retail The yearly corporate employee we recognise that many people want the employees the expertise and the satisfaction survey gauges staff opinion flexibility of a part-time job in order to confidence to serve our customers on a wide variety of Company issues suit their lifestyle.
We aim to provide for correctly.
Our retail teams currently and working practices in a confidential their needs in the workplace.
refuse service to approximately 50,000 manner and provides a continuous people a month who are unable to objective measure for employee We currently employ nearly 43,000 people provide proof of their age.
This year and offer real opportunities to build a the response rate to the survey improved career within the Company, from retail The Company has two graduate for the fourth consecutive year and the staff to Operations Director.
This year we recruitment schemes: the Corporate continuing positive trend relating to invested an average of six days training Graduate programme and the Vocational questions about employee engagement is per employee, with structured training Graduate Programme, placing employees encouraging, with over 90% of employees programmes including both on and off on a fast-track to a retail management feeling satisfied and motivated by their the job training.
Within any given year, we have work.
More than 94% of Mitchells & approximately 60 graduates participating Butlers employees would recommend in our management training schemes and the Company as a good place to work.
for the second year running we achieved a Springboard UK award for Best Student Placement for a Large Organisation.
500 Around 500 managers a year complete their Competence in Retail Management Certificate, which has been accredited as outstanding by the British Institute of Innkeeping.
2,000 Around 2,000 retail employees a year complete their Management Foundation Course.
3,000 Over 3,000 employees a year complete their NCPLH.
Toby Cavery The Scotsbridge Mill Thanet, Kent Premium Country Dining Rickmansworth 19 Increasing property values The combination of our effective operating strategy and our market-leading brands and formats gives us the ability to trade each one of our pubs under the style most appropriate for the target market and local customer demographic, increasing individual pub cash flows and maximising asset values.
The Scotsbridge Mill Premium Country Dining Rickmansworth Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 continued The deliberate repositioning of Mitchells We have also continued to make targeted It has also been clear that property & Butlers estate over the last 15 years has disposals this year, taking advantage of investors are attracted to the long term, been dramatic as we have sought to target the buoyancy in the market to crystallise secure growth prospects that can be the growth areas of both the market and the property value of some smaller, created through the rentalising of part of the economy.
Three strategic acquisitions freehold pubs where this exceeds the our operational cash flows in a dedicated in 1995 Harvester, in 1999 the Allied trading value to the Company.
Whether in a joint Domecq pubs and last year 239 pub the year we achieved 162m of disposal venture, a REIT or another separate restaurants from Whitbread, have enabled proceeds, including the sale of 102 pubs property structure, fundamentally higher us to make significant step changes in the to Trust Inns Ltd in October 2006, values appear to be placed on the estate restructuring of our business to seize generating funds which can then be than when it is combined in an integrated advantage in the fast-growing market for reinvested in higher growth assets.
We have also acquired over 400 individual sites since Our integrated model, where the value We believe that substantial value can the early 1990s and the superior scale and of our property portfolio has been greatly be potentially captured from our high location of our pub estate is a source of enhanced by our superior operational quality, freehold and long leasehold real competitive advantage.
expertise and market-leading brands and assets, through such structures.
A key formats, has already created significant consideration in such a process is to During the same period of time, we value for shareholders and underpinned construct a lease arrangement which have evolved a range of over 25 brands our success to date.
This has been ensures that both the property and the and formats, providing our customers reflected in the 1.1bn upward revaluation operations remain mutually incentivised whether they are 18 or 80 with a pub, of the estate to 5.0bn, which has been to continue to create long-term value.
bar or pub restaurant that they want to carried out in conjunction with our visit.
Our wide range of formats gives property valuers, Colliers CRE.
The Board will continue to investigate us the flexibility to trade each one of actively options for capturing the value our properties under the offer most Our focus remains on releasing to of the property estate for shareholders appropriate for the target market and shareholders the benefits of this capital on a sustainable basis.
local customer demographic, affording appreciation.
In October 2006, we us distinct competitive advantage.
This returned 486m to shareholders by flexibility has been a key element in our means of a Special Dividend of 1 per successful conversion of the Acquired share, crystallising for shareholders Sites.
In addition, we opened six new the continuing growth in the value sites and completed 65 conversions and of the estate.
13 growth projects from our existing estate to change the customer offer or increase the trading area of the site.
We are generating a pre-tax incremental return of 20% on such investments in the core estate over the last two years.
Three strategic acquisitions to reposition the estate: 1995 Harvester 1999 550 former Allied Domecq pubs 2006 239 former Whitbread pub restaurants 20% We are generating a pre-tax incremental return of 20% on our investments in the core estate over the last two years.
The Crown & Greyhound The Oakmere Metro Professionals Harvester Dulwich, London Potters Bar 22 The Acquired Sites In July last year, we acquired 239 of the best pub restaurant sites in the UK.
These freehold pubs were well located, large, predominantly residential and freehold or long leasehold, and approximately half situated in the higher growth regions of the South East and South West of England.
They were therefore an excellent strategic fit with the Companys existing estate.
Our key capital investment priority this year has been the rapid and successful conversion of these sites and a total of 80m has been invested to this end.
The conversion of these sites to our brands and formats is enabling us to create substantial shareholder value from this acquisition and is accelerating our growth and leadership position in the casual eating-out market.
The Royal Saracens Head Premium Country Dining Beaconsfield Our experts Format evolution We have developed and evolved over 25 leading brands and formats, affording us distinct competitive advantage over operators with a more limited range.
1.1bn The increase in the value of our estate following a revaluation this year.
Mark Clair Andrew Senior Estates manager Investment Performance manager Brand Building manager Property Estates team Strategic Planning team Toby Carvery Building Management team 23 Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 Corporate social responsibility Mitchells & Butlers has a core belief that Smoking bans Our pub and pub restaurant managers sustainable business success has to be We believe the introduction of the smoking raise thousands of pounds for charity based on experienced, professional bans will be beneficial to our businesses and are supported via the Company licensed retailing which builds upon the in the longer term.
They present us with a Community Awards and celebrated via the reputation of each individual pub in its real opportunity to attract new customers, annual Heart of the Community Awards own community.
who did not previously use pubs because in recognition of the positive community of the tobacco smoke, to come into impact achieved by our pub managers.
We operate in a highly regulated industry our pubs and pub restaurants across and recognise that attached to the grant of the United Kingdom.
In addition we are now in our third our licences is the primary obligation to year of partnership with Barnardos.
ensure the responsible operation of our Our experience since the bans came into Our in-house Routes to a Brighter Future premises at all times for customers, staff force shows that our large pubs, serving campaign helps Barnardos to work with and the wider community.
For this reason, high volumes of good food at attractive the most vulnerable children and young we strive to ensure that corporate social prices, are already seeing this benefit.
people, helping them transform their lives responsibility underpins our business We are continuing to develop the and their potential.
operation and discipline at every level.
reputation of our pubs for serving good food at good value prices, focusing on As a leading company with its Our philosophy for corporate social innovation in the development of our headquarters in Birmingham we also responsibility combines the best of menus and drinks ranges, to create a wide sponsor a number of successful arts the traditions of the pub landlords choice of dishes using quality ingredients organisations in the city.
Partnerships commitment to the community with which are freshly prepared.
include the City of Birmingham leading practice in crucial areas such Symphony Orchestra, Birmingham as the responsible retailing of alcohol, Gaming Royal Ballet, The Birmingham REP food safety and staff training.
Mitchells & Butlers, through its support and ExCathedra.
of the British Beer and Pub Association A more detailed account of Mitchells & BBPA, has worked closely with the Environment Butlers corporate social responsibility Gambling Commission on the drafting Mitchells & Butlers takes its practices can be found in our separately of the Gaming Machine Permits Code environmental responsibilities seriously published Corporate Social Responsibility of Practice which replaced the industrys and has a policy of seeking continuous Review 2007 on www.
com csrreview voluntary code from 1 September 2007. improvement, with particular focus The BBPA has also worked with the on recycling and energy usage.
Alcohol and Social Responsibility Gambling Commission on the draft Code ASR Policy of Practice for Gaming in Pubs and Clubs, We have an established recycling Mitchells & Butlers first established a which will regulate the playing of poker programme for both glass and cardboard comprehensive policy for the responsible and bingo.
In the last 12 months retailing of alcohol in 2000.
Our ASR we recycled over 14,000 tonnes of waste.
Policy includes clear guidelines on the Community involvement responsible operation of our pubs, the Mitchells & Butlers understands that each We are continuing to make excellent sale and promotion of alcohol, our under of our businesses has an impact on its progress in energy saving and, in 18s policy, and our comprehensive staff local community.
We aim to ensure that September, we opened our first green training and development programmes.
this impact is always positive and we business, designed to trial a number pursue this through a carefully composed of energy saving measures, at the Toby We updated and re-launched the ASR blend of local and national initiatives.
Policy in October 2004, again in May 2006 and most recently in August this year, to include tighter guidelines on the pricing and promotions across our businesses and on Challenge 21, our under 18s policy.
We are determined to ensure that Mitchells & Butlers pubs are operated in a way that fully justifies the grant of a licence for the responsible retailing of alcohol.
In that regard, we were pleased to be recognised for the second time by the Morning Advertiser as this years most responsible drinks retailer in the managed pubs sector.
The Friary Scream Derby 24 Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 Finance Directors report integrity of the existing and proven accounting valuation is consistent with Mitchells & Butlers has performed integrated operating model.
Following a the existing structure of the Group, our well despite a more challenging competitive process, we negotiated terms property valuers have advised that, within consumer environment in the with R20 for the sale of a 50% stake in a an OpCo PropCo structure, our freehold second half of the year.
Earnings 4.5bn joint venture, comprising the and long leasehold properties would per share grew by 21.2% in the majority of our freehold and long support a market rent of 280m and a year, underpinning the proposed leasehold properties.
Shortly before rental yield of 5.8%, with an indicative increase of 16.3% in the annual finalising the agreement, the sudden debt value of 4.8bn before any allowance for market crisis in July meant that the purchasers costs.
This valuation covers ordinary dividend to 14.25 pence transaction could not be implemented.
only the rent from these properties and per share, in addition to the therefore excludes the other cash flows special dividend of 1 per share Hedging arrangements received by the operating company paid to shareholders in In the final stage of the planned which, based on trading in the year ended October 2006. transaction, Mitchells & Butlers and R20 29 September 2007, would equate to separately entered into debt hedging some 200m of underlying EBITDA.
arrangements comprising interest rate and Strong operating performance inflation swaps intended to be contributed Pensions Our value and volume strategy, combined to the joint venture.
These were required After 40m of additional contributions, with the unrivalled quality of our pub to support the delivery of the financing there was a pension deficit of 18m at properties, has been the key to our package.
The turbulence in the debt the end of September under IAS19, with resilient trading performance.
Like-formarkets since July has led to long-term more prudent mortality assumptions like sales during the year were up 3% interest rates falling.
At the same time, applied following the actuarial valuation and net retail operating margins were long-term inflation expectations have exercise in the year.
The formal actuarial broadly maintained, despite 8m of risen, whilst the market liquidity for such valuation as at 31 March 2007 indicates a additional regulatory costs and 14m instruments has sharply diminished.
larger deficit of around 250m, reflecting of closure and pre-opening costs arising These three factors combined to produce the more conservative gilts basis for from the conversion of the Acquired a post-tax deficit on the hedges of 155m, discounting future liabilities.
In line Sites to our brands and formats.
against the mark-to-market values at the with the new pension regulations, the balance sheet date.
This was not a cash Company is finalising with the Trustees Investing for high returns loss to the business, as the hedges have a formal recovery plan to close this deficit In the year we invested 253m in the not been closed out and we continue to by 2017.
As part of this plan, in addition estate, including 131m of expansionary expect that they will be utilised in a future to ordinary annual service contributions, capital of which 80m was spent on property based re-financing, once debts we expect that further contributions of converting the Acquired Sites, delivering markets have stabilised.
24m will be made in each of the next a sales uplift of approximately 20% against three years.
the levels at which the sites were acquired.
Property valuation Our core expansionary investment over Given the continued focus on our estate, Summary the last two years has continued to deliver we completed a revaluation of the Our operational focus remains on driving incremental pre-tax returns of 20%, whilst properties as at 29 September 2007.
The profitable sales growth and generating the business as a whole achieved a post-tax revised value of 5.0bn is included in our strong cash flows.
We will also continue cash return on capital employed of 10.8%.
financial statements and represents a net to look at the best opportunity to release increase of 1.1bn against the historical additional value from our property to Value creative disposals accounting approach.
Alternative use and investment demand for individual pubs reached record levels during the year and we took Karim Naffah the opportunity to dispose of some of Finance Director our smaller pubs, reinvesting the proceeds in high return projects within the estate.
During the year, we raised 162m of cash from disposals, including 101m from the sale of 102 smaller, community pubs to Trust Inns Ltd.
Releasing additional value from property We conducted during the year a rigorous review to determine whether the Companys properties would be valued more highly if they were separated from the operations of the business.
Our market-testing in the spring confirmed that specialist investors would place a substantially higher value on our properties than that which was implied in our stock market valuation.
We examined alternative structures to access this upside for shareholders and concluded that a joint venture would offer the best route to crystallise a substantial proportion of the property value, whilst protecting the 25 Mitchells & Butlers Summary operating Annual review and summary and financial review financial statement 2007 Total revenue for the year was 1,894m up Revenue in the Restaurants division was The Company entered into certain interest 10.1% on last year, including the first year 19.2% ahead of last year at 908m, rate and other hedging arrangements in of ownership of the Acquired Sites.
Strong including the contribution of 160m July 2007 which provide an economic like-for-like sales growth continued from the Acquired Sites.
Excluding the hedge against the future anticipated cash reflecting resilient trading in more Acquired Sites, revenue grew by 2.7% with flows associated with a property based challenging conditions in the second half food sales up 3.9% and drinks up 0.7%.
refinancing, however they do not qualify for and further significant market share gains.
The Restaurants division successfully hedge accounting.
The total fair value of With the success of our ongoing sales and integrated the Acquired Sites and these instruments during the year reported marketing activities, like-for-like food and completed the majority of the conversions within exceptional items was 221 m. An drink sales were up 5.1% and 2.2% during the year as planned.
Growth in the exceptional loss on property related items of respectively with average retail prices up rest of the estate slowed during the year 23m arose during the year, consisting of less than 2%.
Overall gross margins were primarily as a result of the increasing impairment arising from the revaluation of slightly below last year, reflecting a further economic pressure on mid-market the property portfolio of 45m partly offset significant shift towards the higher growth consumers and greater intensity of by net profits on the disposal of properties but lower margin categories of food and competition in pub food.
Operating profit of 22m, primarily related to the sale of wine.
By continuing to improve employee of 145m before exceptional items was up 102 pubs to Trust Inns Limited on productivity, our pub employment ratio was 11.5% on last year, including 16m from 6 October 2006.
Exceptional costs of 4m maintained at below 24% of sales, despite the Acquired Sites.
Net Operating margin were incurred in the first half of the year further increases in the National Minimum fell from 17.1% last year to 16.0% due to relating to the integration of the Acquired Wage adding 7m to our labour costs.
As a the closure and pre-opening costs associated Sites, whilst a further 7m of costs were result the net retail operating margin at with the conversion of Acquired Sites incurred in the second half of the year, 17.9% was broadly in line with last year, and the comparatively low margins relating primarily to professional advisers despite 14m of one-off closure and achieved by those sites prior to conversion.
fees in relation to the Boards review pre-opening costs.
Excluding the Acquired Sites, operating of a potential property refinancing and the profit increased by 4.0% with a net proposed joint venture transaction with R20.
We invested 261m in the estate in the year, operating margin improvement on of which 8m related to the purchase of the Finance costs for the year before exceptional 0.2 percentage points.
Acquired Sites and 80m was invested to items were 153m, 35m higher than last convert the majority of those sites to Standard Commercial Property year, reflecting the higher level of debt in Mitchells & Butlers brands and formats.
Developments Limited, the Groups the Group following the purchase of the 122m was invested to maintain the high in-house property development business, Acquired Sites in July 2006 and the levels of amenity in the pubs and in the generated 18m of revenue and 7m of payment of a Special Dividend of 486m, continuing development and evolution of operating profit in the year.
The our brands and formats and 51m was effective tax rate was 30%, one percentage Substantial progress was made in the spent on expansionary projects in the point lower than last year.
summer on structuring an attractive existing estate.
During the year six new property transaction, with terms largely Earnings per share before exceptional items pubs opened and 65 existing pubs were concluded with R20 the investment vehicle were 35.5p, 21.2% ahead of last year.
In converted to one of our brands and formats of Robert Tchenguiz based on the sale of addition to the growth in operating profit, to uplift their sales and profits.
Overall we a 50% stake in a 4.5bn property joint earnings per share have benefited from a are continuing to achieve an incremental venture comprising 1,300 pubs and 17% reduction in the average number of pre-tax return of 20% on the expansionary 240m of rent.
In the final stages of the shares mainly as a result of the 34 for 41 investment of the last two years.
Net capital planned transaction, the Company and share consolidation in October 2006. investment was 99m after achieving R20 separately entered into certain interest 162m of cash from disposals.
The Board is recommending a final and inflation hedging arrangements dividend of 10p per share.
Together with Operating profit before exceptional items intended to be contributed to the joint the interim dividend of 4.25p paid in June, was 343m, 11.0% ahead of last year.
The sudden, rapid deterioration this gives a total dividend for the year of in debt market conditions in later July Revenue in the Pubs & Bars division was 14.25p, 16.3% higher than last year.
meant that a financing package could not 1.0% ahead of last year, including 16m be obtained and the transaction could not The Groups operations continued to from the Acquired Sites transferred to the be executed.
The hedges remain in place generate strong cash flows.
Cash flow from division following conversion.
Like-for-like as it is the Boards intention to utilise operations was 447m before exceptional sales, on a same outlet basis, were ahead by these instruments in a future propertyitems but after pension contributions of 4.7%.
There were continued drinks market based refinancing once debt markets 40m.
Net capital expenditure was 99m share gains, as a result of the widening gap have stabilised.
including 80m of expenditure on the between our amenity, product range and Acquired Sites, 51m of core expansionary value for money and that of the Given the continued focus on the value of capital investment, 122m of maintenance competition.
Food sales across the division our estate, we have completed a revaluation capital, less disposals proceeds of 162m.
were up 12.5% excluding the Acquired of our fixed assets based on an updated Sites driven by growth in the residential valuation performed by Colliers CRE, of On an IAS 19 basis, the net deficit in the pubs as well as the Town Pubs and central our freehold and long leasehold properties pension scheme was 18m 14m, after tax London estate.
As a result of tight cost as at 29 September 2007.
The revised value at 29 September 2007 compared with 99m control and improved employee of the properties at 5.0bn represents a 67m after tax at 30 September 2006.
The productivity, operating profit of 191m net increase of 1.1bn compared with the reduction in deficit reflects the benefit of before exceptional items was up 6.7% historical accounting basis.
We will continue 40m of additional pension contributions in the year and net Operating margin to regularly revalue our properties each year paid in the year and improved investment increased from 18.7% to 19.7%.
returns, partially offset by updated the contribution from the Acquired Sites assumptions of life expectancy.
and the impact of major disposals in the comparative, the existing Pubs and Bars estate increased Operating profit by 11.9%.
26 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 2007 2006 Independent auditors statement to the 52 weeks 52 weeks members of Mitchells & Butlers plc Income statement m m We have examined the Groups summary Revenue 1,894 1,720 financial statement for the year ended 29 Operating profit September 2007 which comprise the Pubs & Bars 191 179 summary income statement, summary Restaurants 145 130 consolidated cash flow statement and Retail 336 309 summary balance sheet.
SCPD 7 This report is made solely to the Operating profit before exceptional items 343 309 companys members, as a body, in Operating exceptional items 11 7 accordance with Section 251 of the Loss profit arising on property-related items 23 23 Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent Operating profit 309 325 required by the law, we do not accept or Net finance costs 368 113 assume responsibility to anyone other than Net finance income from pensions 11 8 the company and the companys members Loss profit before taxation 48 220 as a body, for the audit work, for this Tax credit expense 38 25 report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Loss profit for the financial period 10 195 Respective responsibilities of directors Earnings loss per ordinary share and auditors Basic before exceptional items 35.5 p 29.3p The directors are responsible for Basic after exceptional items 2.5 p 39.7p preparing the Annual review in accordance with applicable law.
Ordinary dividends per share 14.25p 12.25p Special dividends per share 100.00p Our responsibility is to report to you our 2007 2006 opinion on the consistency of the summary Cash flow m m financial statement within the Annual Operating profit before exceptional items 343 309 review with the full annual financial Depreciation and amortisation 129 121 statements, the Directors report and Directors Remuneration report, and its EBITDA before exceptional items 472 430 compliance with the relevant requirements Working capital movement 8 9 of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 Other non-cash items 11 11 and the regulations made thereunder.
We Additional pension contributions 40 20 also read the other information contained Net cash inflow from operations before exceptional items 451 430 in the Annual review and consider the Net capital expenditure 99 583 implications for our report if we become Operating cash flow after net capital expenditure 352 153 aware of any apparent misstatements or Integration costs paid 4 material inconsistencies with the summary Cash flow from operations after net capital expenditure 348 153 financial statement.
Net interest paid 145 107 Basis of opinion Tax paid 33 48 We conducted our examination in Dividends paid 538 56 accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The Purchase of own shares 46 76 auditors statement on the summary Proceeds on release of own shares held 11 12 financial statement issued by the Auditing Defence costs 4 Practices Board.
Our report on the Expenditure associated with refinancing 4 10 companys full annual financial statements Corporate restructuring costs 4 describes the basis of our audit opinions Net cash flow 411 442 on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report.
2007 2006 restated Opinion Balance sheet m m In our opinion the summary financial Non-current assets 5,163 3,970 statement is consistent with the full annual Non-current assets held for sale 6 88 financial statements, the Directors report Total non-current assets 5,169 4,058 and Directors Remuneration report, of Current assets 303 498 Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended Total current liabilities 790 321 29 September 2007 and complies with the Net current liabilities assets 487 177 applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations Total assets less current liabilities 4,682 4,235 made thereunder.
Total non-current liabilities 3,106 3,026 Net assets shareholders funds 1,576 1,209 Ernst & Young LLP Restated in respect of a prior year deferred tax adjustment see notes to the 2007 Annual report Registered Auditors and accounts.
London 27 Mitchells & Butlers Board of Directors Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 1 Roger Carr, aged 60 3 Karim Naffah, aged 44 6 Adam Fowle, aged 48 9 Sir Tim Lankester, aged 65 Chairman # Finance Director Managing Director, Restaurants Non-Executive Director Became Chairman of the Company on Became Finance Director of the Became Managing Director, Restaurants Appointed a Non-Executive Director in its separation from Six Continents PLC Company on its separation from Six on 1 October 2007.
Adam rejoined May 2003, he is President of Corpus in 2003.
He is Chairman of Centrica plc Continents PLC in 2003.
In 1991, he Mitchells & Butlers in March 2005 as Christi College, Oxford.
From 1973 to and Deputy Chairman of Cadbury joined Bass, becoming its Director of Business Development Director, having 1995 he was a member of the Civil Schweppes plc and a senior adviser to Strategic Planning in 1992.
In 2000, spent two years with Sainsburys as Service rising to be Deputy Secretary Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd.
He is he became Strategy Director for that Retail Director.
Adam originally joined of H. M. Treasury, Permanent Secretary, also a non-executive director to the group and a member of the Strategic Bass as a District Manager in 1985 and Overseas Development Administration, Bank of Englands Court of Directors.
Business Committee and the executive worked in a number of operational and Foreign and Commonwealth Office and He has previously held a number of committees of the Hotels and Retail strategic roles, latterly as Managing Permanent Secretary, Department for senior appointments including Chief divisions.
He also held responsibility Director for the Pubs and Bars Division.
He served as Private Executive of Williams plc, Chairman for the property development and IT Secretary at 10 Downing Street and of Chubb plc and Chairman of Thames functions.
7 George Fairweather, aged 50 represented the UK on the Boards of Water plc.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director the World Bank and the IMF.
He has member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Mike Bramley, aged 56 Appointed a Non-Executive Director held non-executive directorships of on 1 October 2006.
Managing Director, Pubs and Bars in April 2003, he chairs the Audit CU CGU and Smith & Nephew and Became a Director of the Company on Committee.
He is Group Finance currently is a non-executive director 2 Tim Clarke, aged 50 its demerger from Six Continents PLC Director of Alliance Boots having of ACTIS Capital.
He is Chairman of Chief Executive in 2003.
He has been Managing Director, previously held the same role with the Board of Management of the Became Chief Executive of the Pubs & Bars since September 2002.
In Alliance UniChem up until its merger London School of Hygiene and Tropical Company on its separation from over 20 years with Bass Six Continents, with Boots Group.
Earlier appointments Medicine and was appointed Chairman Six Continents PLC in 2003, having he worked in a variety of roles in the were with Elementis and Dawson of the Board of Trustees of the previously been Chief Executive of pubs and brewing businesses.
In 1995 International, both as Group Finance Contemporary Dance Trust Limited Six Continents PLC.
Between 1995 and he became Commercial Director of Director, and before that with Dixons on 1 September 2007.
2000 he was Chief Executive of Bass Bass Taverns and in 1998 was Group and Procter & Gamble.
Retail, which now constitutes the appointed HR and Commercial Director 10 Drummond Hall, aged 58 business of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
He is a director 8 Sara Weller, aged 46 Non-Executive Director He chairs the Executive Committee.
of the British Beer & Pub Association.
Non-Executive Director Appointed Senior Independent Director He is a director of the British Beer & Appointed a Non-Executive Director in on 1 February 2007, having recently Pub Association, having been Chairman 5 Tony Hughes, aged 59 April 2003, she chairs the Remuneration stepped down from his full time position in 2002 and was appointed a director Executive Director Committee.
Sara is Managing Director as Chief Executive of Dairy Crest plc.
of The Drinkaware Trust on 2 February former Managing Director, Restaurants of Argos Ltd having previously Prior to that, he had held marketing 2007.
He is a non-executive director of Became a Director of the Company on been Deputy Managing Director of positions in Procter & Gamble, Mars Associated British Foods plc and the its demerger from Six Continents PLC J Sainsbury plc.
Earlier appointments and Pepsi Cola, before moving to HP Birmingham Royal Ballet.
He was Managing Director, were with Abbey National and Mars Bulmer plc where he became Managing Restaurants from 2000 to 30 September Confectionery.
Director of the Cider and Beer Division 2007.
In 1995 he joined Bass following and a member of the Group Executive.
He was appointed a non-executive senior management roles at B&Q, J.
In 2001 he director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc on 12 April 2007. received the Hotel and Caterer Catey for the Pub Industry Award, in both 2002 and 2006 he was voted Retailers Retailer Individual of the Year by the pub and restaurant industry and in 2007 he received a Lifetime Achievement Award at the 8th European Foodservice Summit.
159 Our strong leadership team 2610 37 48 28 Mitchells & Butlers Executive Committee Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 11 John Butterfield, aged 42 15 Jeremy Townsend, aged 43 Strategy Director Deputy Finance Director Joined the Bass Group in 1999, Joined the Company in June 2005 transferring to the retail business in as Deputy Finance Director.
He was 2000 to become Director of Strategic previously employed by J Sainsbury plc Planning.
He was previously employed Corporate Finance Director and by Bain & Company management Ernst & Young Corporate Finance.
consulting and Standard Chartered West LB Investment 16 Alison Wheaton, aged 43 Banking.
Property and IT Director Joined the Bass retail business in 12 Bronagh Kennedy, aged 44 1997 as Director of Strategic Planning, HR Director and General Counsel moving to run Hollywood Bowl before Company Secretary to the Board becoming Operations Director of of Directors, Bronagh is a qualified London & Venues.
She was appointed solicitor and joined the Bass retail Property & IT Director in 2002.
She was was previously employed by Pepsi Cola, appointed Director of Legal Affairs Lever Brothers and Morgan Stanley and in 2000 and HR Director and General is a non-executive director of the London Counsel in 2002.
She was previously Development Agency.
Key 13 Adam Martin, aged 44 A Non-Executive Director Marketing Director # A member of the Remuneration Joined the Bass Group in 1996 Committee becoming Marketing Director of the A member of the Audit and retail business in 1999.
Adam was Remuneration Committees previously employed at Gemini A member of the Nomination Consulting and Cadbury Limited.
Committee A member of the Executive 14 Richard Pratt, aged 52 Committee Commercial Director Became Commercial Director in 2002 having joined the Bass retail business in 1994 as Catering Retail Director.
He previously worked for Diageo plc.
11 15 12 16 13 14 29 Mitchells & Butlers Directors report & Annual review and summary Corporate governance report financial statement 2007 Directors report There were no changes to the Board clear operating procedures, lines of Principal activities during the year.
Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator These procedures have been in place since of managed pubs and pub restaurants, Adam Fowle was appointed to the Board the Company was listed and are regularly with an estate of 2003 sites as at on 1 October 2007 and Tony Hughes reviewed by the Board.
29 September 2007, principally located will stand down from the Board on in the UK.
A review of the the Groups 31 December 2007.
Mike Bramley, Roger During the year, the Board has conducted performance is contained in the full Carr and Drummond Hall will retire by a review of the effectiveness of the system Directors report which cross-refers to the rotation at the Annual General Meeting of internal control.
The system is designed Chairmans statement, and the Operating on 31 January 2008.
Adam Fowle will also to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk and financial review incorporating the stand for reappointment at that meeting as of failure to achieve business objectives Chief Executives review, the Business he was appointed by the Directors during and it must be recognised that it can only review, the Financial review and Corporate the year.
The Executive Directors each provide reasonable and not absolute governance report contained in the Annual have a service contract with the Company, assurance against material misstatement report and financial statements 2007, and the Non-Executive Directors serve or loss.
In that context, the review, in the a copy of which is available on request under letters of appointment.
opinion of the Board, did not indicate that and can be viewed on the Companys the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
com reports Employees The Group employed an average of The Group regularly reviews both the type Share capital 42,741 people in 2007 2006 38,677. and amount of external insurance that it On 1 October 2006, the Company Details of the Groups employment buys bearing in mind the availability of 1 had 486,910,806 ordinary shares of 7 12p policies are shown in the Annual report such cover, its cost, and the likelihood and in issue.
On 18 October 2006 the share and financial statements.
magnitude of the risks involved.
The capital of the Company was consolidated Group additionally maintains Directors in the ratio of 34 new ordinary shares Donations and officers insurance cover.
13 of 8 24p for every 41 existing ordinary The Company continues to support 1 shares of 7 12p.
As at 29 September 2007, community initiatives and charitable Board and committee structure 13 403,779,693 ordinary shares of 8 24p were causes, full details of which are given To support the principles of good in issue.
1,241,969 of these shares were in the Annual report and financial corporate governance, the Board, is held in Treasury and the Companys statements.
The Company made no responsible to the shareholders for the employee share trusts held 1,070,449 political donations during the year and good standing of the Company.
There shares at the year end.
intends to maintain its policy of not were eight regular Board meetings during making such payments.
It will, however, the year, along with seven additional Refinancing and return as a precautionary measure to avoid meetings.
During the year the Company of funds to shareholders inadvertent breach of the law, seek entered the FTSE 100 and, as a result, Following a refinancing that was shareholder authority at its 2008 AGM the Chairman now holds more than one completed in September 2006 and the to make limited donations or incur chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
share capital consolidation that occurred limited political expenditure, although The Non-Executive Directors specifically in October 2006, the Company paid it has no intention of using the authority.
considered this as part of the Board a Special Dividend of 1 per share on effectiveness review and concluded that 25 October 2006 as an interim dividend Annual General Meeting he is more than capable of devoting for the year ending 29 September 2007.
The notice convening the Annual General sufficient time to his role of Chairman Meeting to be held at 11.00am on of the Company alongside his external Final dividend Thursday, 31 January 2008 is contained appointments.
The Board recommends a final dividend in a circular sent to shareholders with for the year ended 29 September 2007 this review.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination of 10.0p per share to be paid on and Executive Committees of the 4 February 2008 to shareholders Corporate governance report Board meet throughout the year.
on the register at close of business on The Board recognises the importance Their terms of reference are available 7 December 2007.
This makes a total of good corporate governance in creating on www.
com investors dividend, including the Special Dividend, a successful, sustainable and profitable for the year of 114.25p per share business.
It is committed to compliance The Company Secretarys responsibilities 2006 12.25p per share.
with the principles of corporate include ensuring good information flows governance as set out in the Combined to the Board and its committees and Securities and Exchange Code on Corporate Governance between senior management and NonCommission SEC registration the Combined Code and considers that Executive Directors, and for assisting As a result of changes to the SEC rules the Company has complied throughout the Directors with their professional implemented in June 2007, the Company the year ended 29 September 2007 with development.
was able to file to terminate its registration all the provisions of the Combined Code, under the US Securities and Exchange except where explained below.
Going concern Act 1934 the Exchange Act.
This The Companys financial statements termination took effect on 4 September Internal control for the year ended 29 September 2007 2007 and accordingly the Company no The Board is responsible for the have been prepared on a going concern longer has any reporting requirements Groups system of internal control and basis as, after making appropriate under the Exchange Act.
risk management and for reviewing its enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable effectiveness.
In order to discharge that expectation that the Group has adequate Directors responsibility, the Board confirms that it resources to continue in operational Details of the Directors who served on has established the procedures necessary existence for the foreseeable future.
the Board during the year are shown to apply the Combined Code, including on page 28.
30 Mitchells & Butlers Remuneration report Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 This summary is an extract of information executives.
The Committee is also for any future appointments, subject to from the full Remuneration report responsible for reviewing the fees of the this continuing to be reflective of market contained in the Annual report and Chairman.
The Committee aims to ensure practice, it was decided that Adam Fowle financial statements 2007, a copy of that remuneration packages are designed who was appointed to the Board on which is available on request and can to attract, retain and motivate Executive 1 October 2007 would be required to be viewed on the Companys website at Directors of the highest calibre.
It has attain a shareholding of twice his annual www.
Throughout this regard to the levels of remuneration salary within five years of his appointment review, references to the year are to the within the Group and the specific as an Executive Director.
52 week period ended 29 September industries and businesses with which the 2007.
The full Remuneration report will Group companies compete and is also The Company measures its performance be put to shareholders for approval at the sensitive to levels within the wider against its strategy through four key forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company operates performance indicators KPIs, being: performance-related policies designed to 1.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth.
Remuneration policy for Executive provide the appropriate balance between 2.
Earnings per share EPS growth.
Directors fixed remuneration and variable risk 3.
Cash return on cash capital employed The following overall policy has applied reward.
Using target or projected value CROCCE in excess of the weighted throughout the year and is intended calculations, performance-related average cost of capital, post tax to continue to apply for the financial incentives for Executive Directors will WACC.
year 2008. equate to approximately 60% of total 4.
Incremental return on expansionary remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee determines on behalf of the Share and cash-based incentives are As outlined in the OFR, total shareholder Board, with the benefit of advice from designed so as to align the interests of return TSR is also an important external consultants and the Human executives with those of shareholders.
measure of performance and this measure Resources function, the remuneration Executive Directors are currently required forms one of the performance conditions packages, including pension rights and, to build and maintain significant for the Performance Restricted Share Plan.
should it be necessary, compensation shareholdings equivalent to twice their payments, of the Executive Directors, basic salary, but three times salary for the These KPIs and their alignment to the other members of the Executive Chief Executive.
Although the Committee remuneration policy are summarised Committee and certain other senior recently reduced this to one times salary below.
Purpose Grant policy Performance measures 2006 07 2007 08 Annual performance bonus Motivates achievement of annual business KPIs 55% of salary on target bonus, 100% of base Earnings per share Earnings per share and delivery of EPS target.
Payable in cash or shares 75% and personal 75% and personal at the discretion of the Committee.
and group business and group business objectives 25%.
These objectives are These objectives are based on a number based on a number of of measures including measures including like-for-like sales like-for-like sales growth and return growth and return on on investment.
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP Incentivises growth in EPS and share price.
Deferred shares matched 1:1 subject to Growth in EPS over Growth in EPS over Aligns interests of Executive Directors and achievement of a performance condition.
Dividend RPI over a three year RPI over a three year shareholders.
Accrued Shares will be awarded on the value of performance period.
ordinary dividends accruing on vested shares.
Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP Incentivises increase in cash returns generated Up to 177% of base salary.
Total shareholder Total shareholder by the business and reduction in overall cost return against an return against an of funding.
industry specific industry specific comparator group.
Aligns interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Average excess of Average excess of cash return on cash cash return on cash capital employed over capital employed over the weighted average the weighted average cost of capital.
Basic salary Reflects competitive market level for the role and Benchmarked against FTSE All Share index and Individual contribution.
These principles of alignment are cascaded as appropriate to executives below Board level.
31 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Components of remuneration packages employment at the end of that period, total shareholder return against a the Company will provide Matching comparator group of competitor Basic salary Shares on a 1:1 basis, subject to companies: and Basic salary will normally be set within satisfaction of the performance condition.
cash return on cash capital employed a competitive range broadly at median Where Matching Shares have been against its weighted average cost of market level when compared with an awarded, the performance condition has capital, post tax.
As been based on EPS growth.
Dividend previously reported, from 2007 onwards, Accrued Shares, equal to the gross Awards will be graded according to the the Committee decided that by exception, ordinary dividends applicable over the level of performance on each of these basic salary may extend into the upper performance period will be awarded based measures.
For awards made from 2006 quartile to attract new employees and on the number of shares vesting.
onwards, Dividend Accrued Shares, reward key individuals for consistent equal to the gross ordinary dividends outstanding performance.
During the year, certain hedging applicable over the performance period instruments hedges were taken out in will be awarded based on the number Of the components of the remuneration anticipation of implementing a property of shares vesting.
package, only basic salary is pensionable.
These hedges have given rise to a non-cash deficit at the year Executive share options Annual performance bonus and Short end.
As it is uncertain whether this nonGrants of options have been made under Term Deferred Incentive Plan cash deficit will crystallise and, if so, the the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Share Challenging performance goals are set extent to which it will affect the financial Option Plan EXSOP, although no which must be achieved before a bonus performance of the Company, the grants have been made under the EXSOP becomes payable.
These targets are linked Executive Directors have voluntarily since June 2005.
It is intended that no to the Groups performance in achieving offered to freeze final consideration of further grants are made under this plan.
strategic business objectives, delivering whether a bonus should be paid in respect The maximum value of shares over which corporate financial targets and to each of the year to 29 September 2007 pending options were granted in any year was twice Directors achievement of personal a review by the Remuneration Committee salary for Executive Directors.
The maximum bonus at the forthcoming half year or later, if exercisable three to ten years from grant opportunity for 2007 was 100% of salary.
subject to the achievement of a performance condition set by the Annual bonuses may be paid in cash but, Performance Restricted Share Plan Committee.
at the discretion of the Committee, the The PRSP aims to encourage continuing Executive Directors may receive all or improvement in the Groups performance Pension arrangements part of the bonus in the Companys shares over the longer term.
Generally a three Executive Directors participate with under the terms of the STDIP.
Under year performance cycle will commence other members in the relevant Group the STDIP, any award of Bonus Shares each year and at the end of the cycle two pension schemes.
is deferred for three years and, if the aspects of the Companys performance will Executive Director is in the Companys be measured: Directors emoluments 2007 Total emoluments Basic Annual excluding pensions salaries performance 2007 2006 and fees bonus Benefits 52 weeks 52 weeks 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Tim Clarke 538 22 560 951 Mike Bramley 374 21 395 643 Tony Hughes 374 25 399 645 Karim Naffah 386 13 399 677 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 224 224 209 George Fairweather 55 55 51 Drummond Hall 47 47 44 Sir Tim Lankester 47 47 44 Sara Weller 55 55 51 Total 2007 2,100 81 2,181 Total 2006 2,015 1,222 78 3,315 Final consideration of whether a bonus should be payable in respect of the year to 29 September 2007 has been frozen pending a review by the Committee Drummond Halls fees were paid to his former employer, Dairy Crest Group plc, until his retirement from that company on 31 December 2006 The figures above represent emoluments earned during the periods shown.
There was no payment for loss of office.
Benefits incorporate the value of all tax assessable benefits arising from employment with the Company, which primarily relate to the provision of a company car and healthcare cover.
32 Mitchells & Butlers Remuneration report Annual review and summary continued financial statement 2007 Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan The values earned in the year in respect of shares receivable through the matching facility under the STDIP are shown in the table below.
These Matching Shares relate to bonuses earned for 2005 06 which were rolled over under the terms of the plan and are valued at 721.5p per share, the share price on 5 December 2006, the date of award.
Matching Shares will be released after three years, subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition.
Awarded in FY 2007 Value of Matching Number of Matching Shares awarded Director Shares awarded 000 Tim Clarke 44,187 319 Mike Bramley 19,455 140 Tony Hughes 38,910 281 Karim Naffah 21,121 152 Performance Restricted Share Plan A cycle of the PRSP ended on 29 September 2007.
The performance measures related to the Companys TSR performance against a group of comparator companies and to the excess of CROCCE over WACC.
The maximum potential awards to Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
Maximum Maximum Maximum potential potential potential shares shares as award as at Lapsed Exercised Granted as at as at Earliest Latest 30.09.06 in year in year in year 29.09.07 29.09.07 vesting lapse Director shares shares shares shares shares 000 date date Tim Clarke 586,978 61,337 143,117 140,014 522,538 3,193 30.11.07 30.11.11 Mike Bramley 393,220 40,290 94,008 95,104 354,026 2,163 30.11.07 30.11.11 Tony Hughes 393,220 40,290 94,008 95,104 354,026 2,163 30.11.07 30.11.11 Karim Naffah 417,784 43,296 101,024 100,388 373,852 2,284 30.11.07 30.11.11 Granted on 1 December 2006: share price at date of grant was 685.0p Based on the share price on 28 September 2007 of 611.0p Executive share options The Directors executive share options at 29 September 2007 are summarised in the table below.
Weighted average option price Director 30.09.06 Exercised 29.09.07 pence Tim Clarke 1,671,917 456,620 1,215,297 280.52 Mike Bramley 1,085,781 605,777 480,004 285.41 Tony Hughes 1,169,473 689,469 480,004 285.41 Karim Naffah 1,022,934 32,567 990,367 259.71 The above table excludes potential awards under the PRSP All-employee share plans Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys all-employee plans on the same basis as other employees.
No grant of options was made under the Sharesave plan to any Director during the year.
The Directors interests under the Sharesave plan at 29 September 2007 were as follows: Shares Option under price Director option pence Tim Clarke 9,423 169 Mike Bramley Tony Hughes Karim Naffah 4,509 209 33 Mitchells & Butlers Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Under the Share Incentive Plan, Executive Directors and employees are conditionally awarded shares which become unconditional after three years.
The Executive Directors interests in shares under this plan are as follows: Shares conditionally Total Unconditional awarded in conditional Director shares June 2007 shares Tim Clarke 1,669 342 1,574 Mike Bramley 1,440 278 1,463 Tony Hughes 1,493 278 1,463 Karim Naffah 1,606 292 1,524 Directors shareholdings Ordinary shares of 13 8 24p 29.09.07 30.09.06 Executive Directors Tim Clarke 806,409 487,022 Mike Bramley 422,666 104,222 Tony Hughes 468,381 110,932 Karim Naffah 333,131 224,827 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 27,470 17,470 George Fairweather 1,658 1,658 Drummond Hall 7,974 2,902 Sir Tim Lankester 1,017 1,017 Sara Weller 4,383 4,354 Adjusted for the share consolidation implemented on 18 October 2006 The above shareholdings, and the shares held on behalf of the Executive Directors by the trustee of the Companys Share Incentive Plan, are all beneficial interests.
Pension benefits The Company provides an Executive Pension Plan the Plan and an unfunded Executive Top-Up Scheme in which the Directors participate.
Their accrued pensions under these schemes, which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 29 September 2007, are shown in the table below.
Mike Bramley opted out of the Plan for future accrual with effect from 5 April 2006 and Tony Hughes opted out of the Plan for future accrual from 31 March 2007.
Accrued Years of pension at pensionable 29.09.07 Director service p. a. Tim Clarke 17 295,800 Mike Bramley 27 256,300 Tony Hughes 12 140,800 Karim Naffah 16 173,700 The value of accrued pension for the year to 29.09.07 reflects in part the decision taken at the discretion of the Committee after careful consideration and with the consent of the Plan Trustees to allow Tony Hughes to draw his accrued pension without deduction on his early retirement, aged 59, from 31 December 2007.
No specific additional contribution is or has been made by the Company in respect of his early retirement.
Companys performance against FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 15.04.03 to 29.09.07 Mitchells & Butlers TSR 400 FTSE 250 FTSE 100 300 200 100 0 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 From its listing on 15 April 2003 until 21 December 2003, the Company was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index, and thereafter was included in the FTSE 250 Index.
On 20 April 2007, the Company re-entered the FTSE 100 Index.
The graph above, therefore, measures the Companys performance against both indices.
34 Mitchells & Butlers Shareholder information Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Electronic communication Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Special Dividend and share consolidation Shareholders can register to receive Shareholders can choose to reinvest On 25 October 2006 the Company paid an e-mail notification of the availability dividends received to purchase further a Special Dividend of 1 per share to of the Companys latest shareholder shares in the Company through a DRIP.
shareholders on the register at the close of communications at the following web A DRIP application form is available from business on 17 October 2006.
The website the Registrar or at the following web link by shareholders on 17 October 2006, the also enables shareholders to view details www.
com dividends Special Dividend was accompanied by of their own shareholding or electronically a consolidation of the Companys share appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf Low cost share dealing service capital, effective from 18 October 2006, on any poll that may be held at the A simple, low cost postal facility for whereby shareholders received 34 new forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
buying and selling Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary shares for every 41 existing ordinary shares is available through the ordinary shares held on 17 October 2006.
Following recent changes in legislation Companys Registrar, information may be the Company will be seeking authority obtained from the Registrars address Contacts to amend its Articles of Association at the below or at www.
co. uk dealing Registered office 2008 AGM to enable it to make electronic 27 Fleet Street communication with shareholders the Individual savings accounts ISAs Birmingham B3 1JP default position.
The Company intends ISAs in Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary Telephone 44 0 870 609 3000 to enclose communication election cards shares are available through the Registrar Fax 44 0 121 233 2246 with the interim dividend payment and information may be obtained from mailing in 2008.
Shareholders will have the Registrars address below.
Registrar the right to request to receive paper Equiniti communications, however this presents Share price information Aspect House an opportunity for the Company to The latest Mitchells & Butlers plc share Spencer Road benefit from reducing costs whilst price is available at the following web Lancing reducing its impact on the environment.
com shareprice, in the West Sussex financial press or on Ceefax and Teletext BN99 6DA Interim results and also on the Financial Times Cityline The Company does not intend to publish Service, telephone 44 0 906 843 0000 Telephone 0870 241 3930 from the UK future interim results in hard copy.
The calls charged at 60p per minute.
Telephone 44 0 1903 702424 interim results will be available online for non-UK callers at www.
com reports ShareGift Fax 44 0 1903 702424 The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Amalgamating your share accounts operates this charity share donation For those with hearing loss, a textphone If you received more than one copy of this scheme for shareholders with small is available on 0870 600 3950 for UK report, it may be because the Registrar has holdings of shares, whose value makes callers with compatible equipment.
more than one record of shareholdings in them uneconomic to sell.
To ensure that you do not be obtained from the Registrar or the Stockbrokers receive duplicate mailings in future, you ShareGift website www.
org or by JPMorgan Cazenove Limited can have all your shares amalgamated into calling ShareGift on 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Merrill Lynch International one account by contacting the Registrar at the address below.
Corporate Social Responsibility Review Auditor The Mitchells & Butlers Corporate Social Ernst & Young LLP Dividend mandates Responsibility Review 2007 is available Shareholders who wish dividends to be on the Companys website and can be Investment bankers paid directly into a bank building society downloaded directly by visiting Citigroup account, should contact the Registrar for www.
If you do a dividend mandate form.
This method not have access to the internet and would Solicitors of payment removes the risk of delay or like a printed copy, please write to the Allen & Overy LLP loss of dividend cheques in the post and Communications Department at the ensures that your account is credited registered office shown below.
Key dates 2007 preliminary results announcement 29 November 2007 Final dividend: Ex-dividend date 5 December 2007 Record date 7 December 2007 Payment date 4 February 2008 Annual General Meeting 31 January 2008 Interim management statement 31 January 2008 Announcement of interim results May 2008 Interim dividend payment date July 2008 Interim management statement July 2008 Pre close trading update September 2008 Announcement of 2008 preliminary results Nov Dec 2008 35 Mitchells & Butlers Glossary Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Acquired Sites Cover turn Operating profit 239 pub restaurant sites acquired from The total number of main meals sold Earnings before interest, tax and Whitbread PLC in July 2006. divided by the number of main meals exceptional items.
that could be sold in one sitting.
Amenity Outlet employment ratio Design, dcor, furniture and facilities EBITDA Pub employment costs divided by total that contribute to the environment and Earnings before interest, tax, sales, expressed as a percentage.
depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
Post-tax cash return AWT Average weekly take EBITDA less tax divided by average net The average sales per pub per week, External costs operating assets less revaluation reserve calculated as total sales divided by the Costs influenced by outside factors, plus accumulated depreciation plus average number of pubs trading during ie regulatory and energy costs.
Formats Productivity Outlets where to the customers eye Sales less hourly paid wages divided by Brands the business trades without any overt the number of hours worked.
Outlets which trade under a common branding or badging but the customer name, or their own individual names offer and operating template are Refinancing under an externally recognised group managed to defined standards.
The repayment of an existing loan with name, with a consistent design, drinks the proceeds from a new loan.
range, menu, service style and Gross margin promotional programme.
Gross profit divided by sales, expressed REIT as a percentage.
Business franchise An agreement where an entrepreneur Gross profit Same outlet like-for-like sales growth gains access to high quality pubs Sales less cost of goods sold, expressed The increase in sales performance of all and a sophisticated business support in monetary terms s. managed pubs that were trading for the infrastructure whilst the Company two periods being compared, expressed retains its scale purchasing and overhead Incremental pre-tax returns as a percentage.
advantages and shares in the trading Growth in annual pre-tax operating upside through a franchise fee.
The profit expressed as a percentage of the Securitisation Company receives a commercial rent for associated capital investment.
For sites A means of raising finance secured on the property and retains the property which do not have 12 months postidentifiable and predictable cash flows ownership.
investment trading, incremental return derived from a particular set of assets.
is estimated based on an annualisation Capacity management of actual post-investment trading.
Share buyback The process that seeks to ensure that The purchase in the open market by a pub can service maximum volumes at IFRS a listed company of its own shares.
peak trading times whilst maintaining International Financial Reporting customer satisfaction levels.
Uninvested like-for-like sales growth The increase in sales performance Cash flow from operations National Minimum Wage of those managed pubs that have not The cash generated from the operations The minimum amount an employer received expansionary investment of of the Company generally defined as must pay its workers as defined by law.
more than 30,000 in either year being revenues less all operating expenses.
Off-trade CAGR Any retail outlet which has a licence to Compound Annual Growth Rate.
sell alcohol for consumption off the premises.
Covers The number of main meals sold.
On-trade Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for consumption on the premises eg pubs, restaurants, nightclubs, clubs.
36 Mitchells & Butlers Mitchells & Butlers key brands Annual review and summary and formats include: financial statement 2007 Alex Nicholsons Vibrant bar-restaurants in Germany, Primarily located in London, these where people of all ages meet up beautifully restored, historic pubs offer to eat, drink and talk and enjoy the premium quality food and a wide extensive outside seating areas selection of cask ales and full table-service All Bar One ONeills Stylish, contemporary bars in Irish bars offering great craic and live cities nationwide, run by professionals music alongside hearty pub food with for professionals a distinct Irish flavour and the best Guinness in town Browns Pub & Carvery Elegant brasserie bars and restaurants Top quality carvery meals at great offering a fusion of British and European prices within a friendly local pub serving classic dishes in tasteful surroundings good value drinks Community pubs Premium Country Dining Group Great value, inclusive pubs at the heart Modern country restaurants with great of their neighbourhoods, providing bars designed to offer our guests high regulars with a relaxed, sociable place quality, fresh food and drink in a to meet up with everyone they know sophisticated environment Ember Inns Scream High quality local pubs providing our Aimed at students and like-minded customers with a home from home and individuals, and famous for the Scream a great range of cask ales, wines and burger as well as their excellent lager quality food selection, these pubs are often the best place in town to watch all major sporting events Harvester Sizzling Pub Co. Family-friendly restaurants serving Friendly, comfortable local pubs offering freshly prepared grills, spit-roasts and regulars and families great value sizzling fish dishes and the famous salad cart, dishes and a good choice of drinks included with every meal Toby Carvery Hollywood Bowl Fun, safe bowling for groups of friends Welcoming, accessible pub restaurants with traditional carvery experts creating and families to enjoy, on any day of the week, with the convenience of a real Sunday everyday for all our guests, whatever the occasion time online booking service Innkeepers Lodge Town pubs Offering the quality, satisfaction Conveniently located city centre and value for money expected from pubs offering good value food and budget accommodation, but with the drink, whether for a morning coffee, advantage of a great pub next door, a lunch-time get together or an afterInnkeepers Lodge is the perfect place work drink with friends to stay for business or leisure Metro Professionals Vintage Inns Highly individual pubs which Traditional pub restaurants with real attract an eclectic, urban crowd and character and cosy interiors providing offer an innovative choice of wines a warm, relaxed atmosphere, excellent and cask beers and food with a wines, cask-conditioned ales and contemporary twist good food Music bars Playing the best music from the 70s, 80s and 90s, these high street venues offer customers a terrific night of dancing in a mixed, friendly crowd The paper used in this Review is Design and production derived from 50% recycled material, CarnegieOrr the remaining 50% is sourced from sustainable forests and bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process.
50% It is produced at a Mill that has ISO Print 14001 Environmental Accreditation Cert no.
TT-COC-002228 Royle Corporate Print and is FSC certified.
