Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 are prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted for use in the European Union.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
In the current year, the Group has adopted all of the new and revised standards and interpretations that are relevant to its operations and effective for the current annual reporting period.
This adoption had no financial impact on the financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures: Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: and IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material financial impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Significant accounting policies under IFRS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Groups IFRS financial information are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of MITIE Group PLC and all its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of the parent Company and subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated accounts to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between UK GAAP and IFRS.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Interests of minority shareholders are measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Cost of acquisition includes all deferred amounts that become payable in the future.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
It is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in the subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost.
Intangible assets identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation expense is charged to administrative expenses in the income statement on a straightline basis over its useful life.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Other than in respect of long-term contracts, described below, revenue represents fee income recognised in respect of services provided during the period stated net of value added tax.
Revenue is earned solely within the United Kingdom.
Revenue from long-term contracts represents the sales value of work done in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year end.
Profits are recognised on long-term contracts where the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
In calculating this, the percentage of completion method is used based on the proportion of costs incurred to the total estimated cost.
Cost includes direct staff costs and outlays.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract immediately such losses are forecast.
Gross amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on account.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
Variations in contract work and claims are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Revenue from bundled contracts consists of various components which operate independently of each other and for which reliable fair values can be established.
Accordingly, each component is accounted for separately as if it were an individual contractual arrangement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Operating profit Operating profit is Profit from operations stated before investment revenue and finance costs.
Leasing Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease-term.
Any lease incentives are amortised over the lesser of the life of the operating lease or to the first opportunity for termination.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Nonmonetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
Retirement benefit costs The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes and participates in a number of other defined benefit schemes.
In respect of the other schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligations over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
In addition, the Group operates a number of defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees.
Payments to the defined contribution and stakeholder pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the profit and loss and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
56 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives and is calculated on a straight-line basis as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and equipment 3-10 years Annually the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs represent materials, direct labour and overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present condition and location.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and estimated selling costs.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Investments All investments are initially recorded at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given and including acquisition charges associated with the investment.
Subsequently they are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Financial instruments Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57
