Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 are prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted for use in the European Union.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2006.
In the current year, the Group has adopted all of the new and revised standards and interpretations that are relevant to its operations and effective for the current annual reporting period.
This adoption had no financial impact on the financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures: Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: and IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material financial impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Significant accounting policies under IFRS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Groups IFRS financial information are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of MITIE Group PLC and all its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of the parent Company and subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated accounts to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between UK GAAP and IFRS.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Interests of minority shareholders are measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Cost of acquisition includes all deferred amounts that become payable in the future.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
It is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in the subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55
