Notes to the Company financial statements 33.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by company law.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting standards and law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Prior year comparatives Other than the change noted below, the accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and previous year.
The Company has adopted the revision to FRS 20 Share-based Payment from 1 April 2006 which requires that options over the Companys shares awarded to employees of the Companys subsidiaries be accounted for as a capital contribution.
Consequently, the carrying value of Investments in subsidiary undertakings has been increased by 2.2m up to 31 March 2007.
The impact on prior year is not material, therefore a prior year adjustment has not been made.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives and is calculated on a straight-line basis as follows: Plant and vehicles 3-10 years The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of tangible fixed assets is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is charged to the profit and loss account, net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Financial instruments Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables are measured at fair value.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Share-based payments The Company operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes model and the corresponding expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
82 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
