Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables are measured at fair value.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Pre-contract costs All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of costs is virtually certain.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within trade and other receivables.
On the contract award these bid costs are amortised through the income statement over the contract period by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes model and the corresponding expense is recognised on a straightline basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 April 2005.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised for certain project based contracts based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
This is measured by comparing the proportion of costs incurred against the estimated whole-life contract costs except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of cash-generating units and also the selection of the appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to use in order to calculate present values.
The carrying value of goodwill is 148.4m 2006: 143.8m at the balance sheet date: see Note 12.
Retirement benefit obligations The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, future returns on assets and future contribution rates.
The present value of retirement benefit obligations at the balance sheet is 143.3m 2006: 72.2m : see Note 30.
58 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
