Glossaryofterms Extrusion-coated Semi-chemicalfluting Netsegmentassets Thisreportcontains Substrate material e. g. paper, Fluting manufactured primarily from Net segment assets are segment anumberofterms, board, aluminium coated with virgin fibre.
assets, consisting of property, someofwhichare a molten web of resin polymer plant and equipment, intangibles, Testliner particulartothe to enhance its barrier properties forestry assets, retirement benefit Containerboard manufactured e. g. to make it waterproof.
surplus, inventories and operating paperandpackaging primarily from recycled product.
receivables less segment liabilities industry, whichare Flexiblepackaging Uncoatedfinepaper consisting of non-interest-bearing Papers, cellulose films and explainedbelow: Uncoated wood-free paper, current liabilities, restoration aluminium foils primarily used, produced from chemical pulp and and decommissioning provisions Annualallowablecut separately or in combination, for used, for example, in office papers.
and provisions for post-retirement Volume of timber which can be retail food and non-food packaging benefits.
harvested annually, subject to e. g. pet food, hygiene product Virginfibre government regulations and the overwrap, detergents and other Fibre derived directly from Operatingmargin principles of sustained yield.
It is a specialist uses such as medical, wood pulp.
Underlying operating profit divided key part of the management model pharmaceutical and tobacco.
Woodpulp by which forests can be sustained Fluting Principal raw material of paper  from generation to generation.
Raw material used for the rippled and containerboard.
The suitability ROCE Cartonboard middle layer of corrugated board.
of certain types of wood pulp for Underlying operating profit, Paperboard used to produce specific products depends upon including share of associates net Industrialbags folding cartons and graphic the type of wood used and the earnings, divided by average Flexible bags made of paper, products like cards and covers.
Pulp produced trading capital employed and for typically used to package between from hardwood trees e. g. segments has been extracted from Chemicalpulp 10 and 50 kilograms of powdered, eucalyptus, aspen, birch and management reports.
Wood pulp or fibres obtained by granular or coarse products.
acacia has short fibres and is digesting and bleaching of wood Shareholdersfunds Kraftliner better suited to coated packaging chips, to remove lignin and other Share capital, share-premium, Containerboard manufactured boards, coated and uncoated fine organic materials surrounding retained profits and other reserves primarily from virgin fibre.
Softwood e. g. cellulose fibres and isolate them attributable to equity holders.
pine and fir has long fibres and is for papermaking.
Kraftpaper generally used for strengthening.
Specialitems Strong paper made from virgin fibre.
Containerboard Those non-recurring financial items Collective term for kraftliner and or Mechanicalpulp which the Group believes should be Financialterms testliner and fluting, the two basic Pulp produced by mechanically separately disclosed on the face of components used to make the EBITDA grinding debarked wood to the combined and consolidated walls of corrugated boxes and Operating profit of subsidiaries and separate the wood fibre.
income statement to assist in cases.
joint ventures before special items, understanding the underlying Officepaper depreciation and amortisation.
financial performance achieved by Converting Uncoated fine paper in cut sizes the Group and its businesses.
Process of transforming paper and EBITDAinterestcover e. g. A4, A3 and other converted containerboard into value added EBITDA divided by net debt finance products e. g. forms, computer Totalequity products: e. g. wood-free reels into charges before special financing sheets, coloured papers and Shareholders funds and minority cut-size, or folding containerboard items.
Gearing Plantations  Corrugatedboard The ratio of net debt to total capital Selected species of tree planted in Net segment assets plus Packing material produced employed.
regimented lines to maximise yield investment in associates, deferred by gluing outer layers of and ease of management.
tax, and other non-operating assets Grouprevenue containerboard to a rippled and liabilities excluding financial Total turnover of subsidiaries and Recoveredfibre middle layer of fluting.
proportionate share of joint venture Used paper and board separately Corrugatedboxes turnover.
collected for re-use as fibre raw Underlyingearnings Boxes produced from corrugated material in paper and board Net profit after tax before special Headlineearnings board.
items attributable to equity holders JSE listing measure, calculated in of the Group.
Corrugatedpackaging accordance with Circular 8 2007, Recycledfibre Packaging materials made from Headline Earnings, as issued by Fibre derived from the collection  corrugated board.
the South African Institute of and treatment of waste paper.
Operating profit of subsidiaries and Chartered Accountants.
joint ventures before special items.
fide-inkedpulp Releaseliners Waste-paper pulp produced from Netdebt Protective backing of self-adhesive used printed paper from which the A non-GAAP measure, comprising products, the prerequisite for ink has been removed.
short and medium-term borrowings modern  bank overdrafts less cash and adhesive technology e. g. for selfcash-equivalents and current adhesive tapes, labels, advertising financial asset investments.
films, diaper tapes, roofing membranes, etc.. 128 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
