Notestothecombined andconsolidated financialstatements Associates 1Accountingpolicies Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to Basisofpreparation exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through The Groups combined and consolidated financial statements have been participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Typically, the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of Standards Board IASB.
There are no differences for the Group in its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the applying IFRSs as issued by the IASB and the European Union EU and equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
therefore the Group also complies with IFRSs as endorsed by the EU.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the Basisofconsolidation fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Where the Groups share of the Duallistedstructure fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of The Group has two separate legal parent entities, Mondi Limited and acquisition exceeds the cost of the acquisition, the surplus, which Mondi plc, which operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited to the combined The substance of the DLC structure is such that Mondi Limited, and its and consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition.
subsidiaries, and Mondi plc, and its subsidiaries, operate together as a single economic entity through a sharing agreement, with neither parent The Groups share of associates profit or loss, presented net of tax, entity assuming a dominant role.
Accordingly, Mondi Limited and Mondi is based on financial statements drawn up to reporting dates that are plc are reported on a combined and consolidated basis as a single either coterminous with that of the Groups or no more than three reporting entity under IFRSs.
Further explanatory detail regarding the months prior to that date.
Where reporting dates are not coterminous, DLC structure and the sharing agreement is contained within note 26. adjustments are made to an associates profit or loss for the effects of significant transactions or events that occur after the associates Pre-demerger reporting date.
During the period up to 2 July 2007 and the prior year presented together, the pre-demerger period, the Group did not form a separate The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost legal group.
The Anglo American plc investment in the Group is of each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of therefore presented for the pre-demerger period, representing the post-acquisition retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and aggregated share capital, share premium and reserve balances of the any long-term debt interests which in substance form part of the Groups Groups constituent entities, together with debtor and creditor balances net investment.
The carrying values of associates are reviewed on a held in respect of the Anglo American group and deemed to be equity regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in funding in nature.
Any interest accruing on such balances is classified as the year in which those circumstances are identified.
The Groups share a dividend in specie and recorded separately through reserves, not of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not through the combined and consolidated income statement.
recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
 Jointventureentities The combined and consolidated financial statements incorporate the A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term assets, liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of Mondi interest and shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating Limited and Mondi plc, and of their respective subsidiary undertakings decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual drawn up to 31 December each year.
transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Subsidiary The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash undertakings are those entities over which the Group has the power, flows of jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate directly or indirectly, to govern operating and financial policy in order to consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share gain economic benefits.
of the results of the joint venture entity on a line-by-line basis with similar The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the years items in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
presented are included in the combined and consolidated income Revenuerecognition statement from the effective date of gaining control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are Saleofgoods made to the results of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured into alignment with those used by the Group.
at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale The interest of minority shareholders is initially stated as the minoritys is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on passed.
This is when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer, acquisition.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
excess of the minority interests capital are allocated against the interests of the Group.
Should future profits accrue to any such loss-making entity,  credits 2 the Group will recover the losses incurred on behalf of the minority Revenues generated from the sale of green energy and excess CO 2 interest.
Once the losses are fully recovered, future profits will become credits issued under international schemes are recorded as income allocable to the minority interest concerned.
within other net operating expenses in the combined and consolidated income statement when ownership rights pass to the buyer.
Interestincome Interest income, which is derived from cash and cash equivalents, available for sale investments, and loans and receivables, is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
58 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 Dividendincome Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups right recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets to receive payment has been established.
are ready for their intended use.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated down to their residual values at varying rates, on the  line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives normally Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before the vary between three years and 20 years for items of plant and equipment share of results of associates, investment income and finance costs.
to a maximum of 50 years for buildings.
 Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed at least annually.
 Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of cash cost At the date of acquisition the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent and the present value of minimum lease payments at the inception the liabilities of a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate, which can be lease.
These assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term measured reliably, are recorded at their provisional fair values.
Provisional and the expected useful lives of the assets.
fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Licences, otherintangibles,   expenditure The cost of a business combination includes the fair value of assets Licences and other intangibles are measured initially at purchase cost provided, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful by a Group entity, in exchange for control of an acquiree.
Estimated useful lives vary between three years and ten years.
attributable costs are also included in the cost of a business combination.
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Goodwill Development costs are reviewed annually and are expensed if they Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable do not qualify for capitalisation.
The amount of development costs, net assets acquired is attributed to goodwill.
Goodwill is subsequently if applicable, that is recognised as an asset is amortised on a measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
systematic basis over the economic life of the related development or Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within five years, whichever is shorter.
If a project is abandoned during the intangible fixed assets.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within development stage, the total accumulated expenditure is written off.
the carrying value of associates.
 Where the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired exceed the excludinggoodwill cost of the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts the acquisition negative goodwill, is credited to the combined and of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition.
any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, minority interests are initially determine the extent of the impairment, if any.
Where the asset does not recorded at the minorities proportion of the fair values for the assets and generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group liabilities recognised at acquisition.
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which Impairmentofgoodwill the asset belongs.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of The recoverable amount of the asset, or cash-generating unit, is the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing combination and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored value in use, the estimated future cash flows generated by the asset are by the Boards for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount discounted to their present value using a post-tax discount rate that of the group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the is tested for impairment annually on a consistent date during each financial risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have year, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset, or cash-generating unit, is Any impairment is recognised immediately in the combined and estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of consolidated income statement.
Impairments of goodwill are not the asset, or cash-generating unit, is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an , impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset,  or cash-generating unit, is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does Property, plantandequipment not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had Property, plant and equipment comprises land and buildings, property, no impairment been recognised for the asset, or cash-generating unit, plant and equipment and assets in the course of construction.
A reversal of an impairment is recognised in the combined Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated and consolidated income statement immediately.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing the plant to the location and condition for its intended use and includes financing costs, up to the date of commissioning.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land, and assets in the course of construction, over their estimated useful lives.
Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 59 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements Ownedforestryassets  Owned forestry assets are measured at fair value.
The fair value is For defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans, full calculated by applying the expected selling price, less costs to harvest actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected and deliver, to the estimated volume of timber on hand at each reporting unit credit method and updates are performed for each financial year date.
The estimated volume of timber on hand is calculated by applying end.
The average discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA the mean annual increment for each age class, by species, to the area rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and currency.
The product of these is then adjusted to present plans assets are measured using year end market values.
value by applying a current market determined post-tax discount rate.
The Group has adopted the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, Mature forestry assets are those plantations that are harvestable, while and as such actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences immature forestry assets have not yet reached that stage of growth.
between expected and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial Plantations are considered harvestable after a specific age depending assumptions, are recognised immediately in the combined and on the species planted and regional considerations.
consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Any Changes in fair value are recognised in the combined and consolidated increase in the present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from income statement within other net operating expenses.
At point of employee service during the year is charged to operating profit.
The felling, the carrying value of forestry assets is transferred to inventory.
expected return on plan assets and the expected increase during the year in the present value of plan liabilities are included in investment Directly attributable costs incurred during the year of biological growth income and interest expense respectively.
are capitalised and presented within cash flows from investing activities in the combined and consolidated cash flow statement.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested or is amortised on a straight-line basis over  the period until the benefits become vested.
Non-current assets, and disposal groups, classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The retirement benefits obligation recognised in the combined and consolidated balance sheet represents the present value of the defined Non-current assets, and disposal groups, are classified as held for sale if benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and as their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset retirement benefits than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to past service costs, plus it is highly probable and the asset, or disposal group, is available for the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the relevant Groups schemes.
to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax charge, the Non-current assets are classified as held for sale from the date these movement in deferred tax and the Secondary Taxation on Companies STC.
conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment is reported Currenttaxation through the combined and consolidated income statement as a special The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer profit differs from net profit as reported in the combined and consolidated depreciated.
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that Discontinued operations are classified as held for sale and are either a are not taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively have been sold or are part of a single co-ordinated plan for disposal, enacted by the balance sheet date.
or represent a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to sale.
Once an operation has been identified as discontinued, or is reclassified as The Group pays STC on dividends declared net of dividends received, continuing, the comparative information is restated.
based on the applicable STC rate.
 Deferredtaxation Inventory Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Inventory and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost and differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the first-in-first-out FIFO the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements and the or weighted average cost basis, as appropriate.
Cost comprises direct corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and materials and overheads that have been incurred in bringing the is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax inventories to their present location and condition.
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Retirementbenefits that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised schemes for its employees as well as post-retirement medical plans.
if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition, other than in a business combination, of other  assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the combined accounting profit.
and consolidated income statement is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
60 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance  sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that  sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to Foreign currency transactions by companies comprising the Group be recovered.
are recorded in their functional currencies at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the transactions occurring.
At each balance sheet date, Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains is charged or credited in the combined and consolidated income and losses arising on retranslation are included in profit or loss for the statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly year and are classified as either operating or financing depending on the to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income  taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to The Groups results are presented in euros the Groups presentation settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
currency, the currency in which most of its business is conducted.
On Leases consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations Operatingleases are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the combined rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items and consolidated income statement in equal annual amounts over the are translated at the average exchange rates for the year where these lease term.
approximate the rates at the dates of transactions.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified within equity and transferred to the Groups Financeleases currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group as income or expenses in the period in which overseas operations are on inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of disposed of.
the minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element of the rental is charged against Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign profit so as to produce a constant yearly rate of interest on the remaining entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the balance of the liability, unless it is directly attributable to qualifying assets, closing rate.
in which case it is capitalised in accordance with the Groups general Share-basedpayments policy on borrowing costs.
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based Provisions compensation schemes.
The fair value of the employee services received Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as in exchange for the grant of share awards is recognised concurrently a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required as an expense and an adjustment to equity.
The total amount to be to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at managements best expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the value of the share awards granted, as adjusted for market performance balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the conditions where applicable.
Service and non-market vesting conditions effect is material.
are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its Restoration,  estimates of the number of share awards that are expected to vest.
It An obligation to incur restoration and environmental costs arises when recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing combined and consolidated income statement, with a corresponding production of a plant or landfill site.
Such costs arising from the adjustment to equity.
installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their present value, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each Financialinstruments project, or as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups costs are charged against profit over the life of the operation, through combined and consolidated balance sheet when the Group becomes the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is  created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures present values and charged against profits as the obligation arises.
and associates, are either classified as available for sale or loans and Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the receivables.
decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from Available for sale investments are initially recorded at fair value.
They changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow, or a change are subsequently remeasured at each reporting date at fair value.
Any in the discount rate, are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity until an investment related asset in the current year.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the is disposed of or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in previously recognised in equity is included in the combined and the combined and consolidated income statement.
If the asset value is consolidated income statement.
increased and there is an indication that the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment test is performed in accordance with the Loans and receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, accounting policy for impairment testing.
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Governmentgrants Government grants relating to capital expenditure projects are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful lives of the assets for which the government grants are provided.
Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 61 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements  Cashflowhedges Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial deposits, together with short-term, highly liquid investments of a maturity instruments that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are of three months or less from the date of acquisition that are readily recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective convertible to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an portion is recognised immediately in the combined and consolidated insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction results short-term borrowings in current liabilities on the combined and in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, then, consolidated balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents in the combined at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or and consolidated cash flow statement and in the presentation of net debt losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are are shown net of overdrafts.
included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a nonTradereceivables financial liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently combined and consolidated income statement in the same year in carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less which the hedged item affects profit or loss on a proportionate basis.
allowance for any impairment as appropriate.
The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and Fairvaluehedges the present value of estimated future cash flows, where the time value of For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged money has a material impact, discounted at the effective interest rate item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being computed at initial recognition.
hedged with the corresponding entry in profit or loss.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the associated derivative are also recognised in profit or loss.
Tradepayables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently Ineffective, expired, sold,  carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
hedginginstruments Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge relationship is Bankborrowings revoked or the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any fair value, net of direct transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedge net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain the combined and consolidated income statement over the term of or loss previously recognised in equity is included immediately in the the borrowings using the effective interest method.
combined and consolidated income statement.
Netdebt Embeddedderivatives Net debt is a non-GAAP measure and consists of short-term and Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host medium-term borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and cash contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and equivalents and current financial asset investments.
characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and Borrowingcosts the host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying capital gains or losses reported in the combined and consolidated income projects under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those statement.
projects during the construction phase, until such time as the assets are Equityinstruments,  substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Where funds have been Equityinstruments borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised An equity instrument is any contract which evidences a residual interest represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where the funds used to in the net assets of an entity.
A financial instrument is treated by the finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised Group as equity if: is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the construction period.
there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on unfavourable terms: and  The Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts in order to the instrument is either a non-derivative which contains no contractual hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity obligation to deliver a variable number of shares, or is a derivative which price risk.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for will be settled only by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or speculative purposes.
other financial assets, for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative Shareissuecosts contract is entered into and subsequently held at fair value in the Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are combined and consolidated balance sheet within derivative financial shown as a deduction, net of applicable tax, from the proceeds.
instruments, and, when designated as hedges, are classified as current An incremental share issue cost is one which would not have arisen or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Derivatives if shares had not been issued.
that are not designated as hedges are classified as current, in Treasuryshares accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, even The purchase by any Group entity of either Mondi Limiteds or Mondi when their actual maturity is expected to be greater than one year.
plcs equity instruments results in the recognition of treasury shares.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not formally The consideration paid is deducted from equity.
Where treasury shares designated in hedge relationships are recognised immediately in the are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any combined and consolidated income statement and are classified within consideration received is included in equity attributable to the equity Operating profit or Net finance costs, depending on the type of risk holders of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc, net of any directly that the derivative relates to.
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects.
62 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 Dividendpayments IAS 1 has been consequentially amended upon the introduction of Dividend distributions to Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs ordinary equity IFRS 7 and now requires the Group to disclose its definition of, and the holders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends principal objectives and means by which it manages, capital, including are declared and approved.
Final dividends are accrued when approved any regulatory compliance requirements.
Disclosure is made in note 37. by both Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs ordinary equity holders at their IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment, is effective respective annual general meetings and interim dividends are recognised for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
The when approved by the directors.
Interpretation prohibits impairment losses recognised in an interim period Specialitems on goodwill, investments in equity instruments and financial assets held at cost to be reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
The Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group Interpretation has had no impact on the Groups combined and believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the combined consolidated financial statements in the years presented.
and consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group and its ,  businesses.
Such items are material by nature or amount to the financial IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, has been consequentially amended upon periods years results and require separate disclosure in accordance with the introduction of IFRS 7.
Special items that relate to the operating performance of the Group  are classified as special operating items and include impairment charges IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions, is and reversals of impairments and other items including material retrospectively effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or restructuring costs.
Non-operating special items include profits and losses after 1 March 2007.
The Group has elected to adopt this interpretation on disposals of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
IFRIC 11 clarifies that the purchase by an entity of its own equity Earningspershare EPS instruments, in settlement of awards made to employees for the fair value BasicEPS of their services, falls to be treated as an equity-settled transaction.
The Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income attributable to ordinary Group has applied this aspect of the Interpretation in full.
The guidance equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary Mondi contained in IFRIC 11 on the appropriate accounting treatment for Group Limited and Mondi plc shares in issue during the year.
For this purpose, entities that participate in a Group-wide share-based scheme has no net income is defined as the profit after tax and special items attributable impact on the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum DilutedEPS Funding Requirements and their Interaction, is retrospectively effective For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of Mondi Limited and for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
Mondi plc ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion It provides interpretive guidance on the recognition of a defined benefit of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as share awards granted to asset, whether derived from an unconditional right to plan refunds or from employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive the availability of contribution reductions, as constrained by the existence when their conversion to shares would decrease net EPS.
of any minimum funding requirements, or a combination of the two.
The Group has early adopted IFRIC 14.
The availability of a retirement benefit  surplus was limited prior to 31 December 2006.
As a result, there was Underlying EPS excludes the impact of special items and is a non-GAAP no impact on the surplus restriction at 1 January 2006.
It is included to provide an additional basis on which to with the transitional provisions of IFRIC 14, the Group has retrospectively measure the Groups earnings performance.
The presentation of increased its surplus restriction during the year ended 31 December 2006. headline EPS is mandated under the JSE Listing Requirements and A consequential decrease in the Groups combined and consolidated is not necessarily a measure of sustainable earnings.
It is calculated in net assets of 20 million as at 31 December 2006 has been recognised.
accordance with Circular 8 2007, Headline Earnings, as issued by the The Groups retirement benefit surplus presented as at the same date has South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
decreased from 35 million to 7 million.
The Groups reported earnings Segmentalreporting are unaffected by this adjustment and there is therefore no impact on the Groups reported EPS.
The Groups primary segmental information is presented for business segments as this reflects the dominant source and nature of the Groups Standards,  risks and returns and the manner in which the Groups internal  organisational and management structure operates.
Secondary IFRS 8, Operating Segments, is effective for annual accounting periods information is presented on geographic segments.
beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group has elected not to early adopt IFRS 8 and will assess its expected impact on the future , earlyadoptionand presentation of the Groups segmental results, assets and liabilities futurerequirements during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Standards,   IAS 23, Borrowing Costs, has been amended such that borrowing costs IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is a disclosure-based directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a Standard and does not require any modification of the recognition and qualifying asset may no longer be expensed.
The amendment is effective measurement principles applied to financial instruments.
Consequently, for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The IFRS 7 has had no impact on reported earnings or equity for the years Groups accounting policy already stipulates that such borrowing costs presented.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 7, the are capitalised as part of the cost of a qualifying asset and, consequently, Group has introduced certain comparatives that report its financial this amendment is expected to have no impact on the Groups financial performance, financial position and financial risk management policies statements.
Disclosure is made in note 38.
Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 63 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements, effective for annual  accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, applies solely The Group assesses annually whether goodwill and tangible fixed assets to public-to-private sector concessions and will therefore have no impact have suffered any impairment, in accordance with the stated Group on the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
The recoverable amounts of goodwill allocated to  and tangible fixed assets are determined based IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes, is effective for annual periods on value-in-use calculations, which require the exercise of managements beginning on or after 1 July 2008 and provides interpretive guidance on judgement across a limited range of input assumptions and estimates.
the appropriate revenue recognition treatment for revenues that are The principal assumptions used relate to the time value of money and interrelated with the award of customer credits.
The Group does not expected future cash flows.
operate customer loyalty schemes and IFRIC 13 will therefore have no impact on the Groups recognition of future revenues.
The Group assesses annually whether there are any indications that items of property, plant and equipment, including assets in the course of  construction, have suffered any impairment.
Indications of impairment The preparation of the Groups combined and consolidated financial are inherently judgmental and may require management to assess both statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions which affect internal and external sources of information.
certain items reported in the combined and consolidated balance sheet Possible indications include, but are not limited to, a decline in an asset and the combined and consolidated income statement.
The disclosure of or entitys financial performance, technological obsolescence, adverse contingent assets and liabilities is also affected by the use of estimation legal or regulatory changes and an increase in the cost of money.
Although the estimates used are based on managements best knowledge of current circumstances and future events and actions,  actual results may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and The Group determines the fair value based on the present value assumptions that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the of expected net cash flows arising from its owned forestry assets carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities within the next financial discounted at a current risk-adjusted post-tax rate.
Management year are discussed below.
exercises judgement in the determination of the appropriate discount rate to apply and in the estimation of future net cash flows.
 The carrying values of certain tangible fixed assets are sensitive to Retirementbenefits assumptions relating to projected residual values and useful economic The Groups scheme liabilities are sensitive to changes in various lives, which determine the depreciable amount and the rate at which underlying actuarial assumptions set by management.
These capital expenditure is depreciated respectively.
The Group reassesses assumptions include the discount and inflation rates to apply to scheme these assumptions at least annually or more often if there are indications liabilities, the mortality rates to apply to scheme members, the long-term that they require revision.
Estimated residual values are based on available medical cost trend rates to apply to medical schemes and the rates of secondary market prices as at the reporting date.
Useful economic lives increase of future salaries.
are based on the expected usage, wear and tear, technical or commercial obsolescence and legal limits on the usage of capital assets.
64 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
