 Mondiplcshareholders Sharecapital  Mondi plc has an authorised share capital comprising 3,177,608,605  ordinary shares of 20 euro cents each the Ordinary Shares, 50,000 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each the Preference Shares,  250,000,000 PLC Special Converting Shares of 20 euro cents each, the Special Rights Share of 1, the PLC Special Voting Share of 1, the UK Articles andapplicable DAN Share of 1 and the UK DAS Share of 1.
Englishlawconcerning The shares are in registered form.
companies theCompanies Purchaseofownshares  Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Mondi plc may purchase, Act2006, togetherthe or may enter into a contract under which it will or may purchase, any of its own shares of any class, including any redeemable shares.
Thisis asummaryonlyandthe OrdinaryShares   Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Mondi plc may by  ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay interim  dividends whenever the financial position of Mondi plc, in the opinion  of the board, justifies such payment.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or required.
AnewsetofArticles other monies payable in respect of Mondi plcs shares from a person  with a 0.25% or more interest in nominal value of the issued shares if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide  Mondi plc with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
for7May2008, asexplained VotingRights onpage8ofthenoticeof Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, annualgeneralmeeting.
at a general meeting, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the shares.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of Mondi plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
Shareholder information Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 129 Additional information for Mondi plc shareholders Restrictionsonvoting Subject to the Companies Acts and regulations and applicable CREST rules, the directors may determine that any class of shares may be held No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any in uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains to be so held and transferred.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide Mondi plc with information A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of Mondi plc, concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the or of other shareholders of shares in Mondi plc, for a transfer of shares Companies Acts.
 Some of the Mondi plcs employee share plans include restrictions on Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of Mondi plc in respect of which transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in PreferenceShares person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate The rights and privileges attached to the Preference Shares are as follows: representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy out of the profits available for distribution and resolved to be distributed, forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the holders of the Preference Shares shall be entitled in priority to any the meeting or adjourned meeting.
payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of shares to be paid Variationofrights in respect of each financial year or other accounting period of Mondi plc Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend.
any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders The holders of the Preference Shares shall only have the right to receive of not less than three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that notice of any general meeting of Mondi plc: i if and when, at the date of class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a the notice convening such meeting, the MPLC Preferential Dividend as separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such defined in the Articles on such Preference Shares is six months or more separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or in arrears: or ii if a resolution is to be proposed abrogating, varying or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued modifying any of the rights or privileges of the holders of the cumulative shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury Preference Shares or for the winding up of Mondi plc, in which case they shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, shall only be entitled to vote on such resolution.
unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares  ranking pari passu with them.
Mondi SCS UK Limited, a UK trust company, specially formed for the purpose of the DLC structure, holds the PLC Special Voting Share, the Where, under an employee share plan operated by Mondi plc, participants PLC Special Converting Shares, the Special Rights Share, the UK DAN are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered owner, the Share and the UK DAS Share.
These shares can only be transferred to voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction another UK trust company, in limited circumstances.
The PLC Special Voting Share is a specially created share so that Transferofshares shareholders of both Mondi plc and Mondi Limited effectively vote together All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual as a single decision-making body on matters affecting shareholders of or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors.
The both companies in similar ways, as set out in the Articles.
instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means agreement which regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency of Mondi of the CREST system.
plc, the PLC Special Converting Shares have no voting rights except in relation to a resolution proposing the i variation of the rights attaching The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their to the shares or ii winding-up, and they have no rights to dividends.
absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any The Special Converting Shares are held on trust for the Mondi Limited transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion Ordinary Shareholders.
may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors The PLC Special Rights Share does not have any rights to vote or any right may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fullyto receive any dividend or other distribution by Mondi plc, save in respect paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to capitalisation of reserves.
to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the Mondi plc and Mondi Limited have established dividend access trust date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with Mondi plc arrangements as part of the DLC.
Mondi plc has issued two dividend send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
access shares, the UK DAS Share and UK DAN Share which enables The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless Mondi plc to pay dividends to the shareholders of Mondi Limited.
the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when This facility may be used by the board to address imbalances in submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certificates the distributable reserves of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited and or to and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require.
address the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it necessary or desirable.
130 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors :changeofcontrol  The articles of association of both Mondi plc and Mondi Limited ensure that a person cannot make an offer for one company without having Directors shall be no less than four and no more than 20 in number.
made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on A director is not required to hold any shares of Mondi plc by way of equivalent terms.
Mondi plc may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if either Mondi plc or Mondi Limited serves written notice on the other at any At each annual general meeting held in each year one-third of the time after either party becomes a subsidiary of the other party or after both directors, or if their number is not a multiple of three then the number Mondi plc and Mondi Limited become subsidiaries of a third party the nearest to, but not less than, one-third, shall retire from office.
Any further agreements establishing the DLC structure will terminate.
directors to retire shall be those of the other directors subject to retirement by rotation who have been longest in office since their last election or reAll of Mondi plcs share plans contain provisions relating to a change of election or, if later, deemed election or re-election and so that as between control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become persons who became or were last re-elected directors on the same day exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any those to retire shall, unless they otherwise agree among themselves, be performance conditions at that time.
In casting the lot, the provision that a director must also be a director of Mondi Limited and the corresponding provision of the  Mondi Limited Memorandum and Articles shall be observed.
A retiring director shall be eligible for re-election.
Any amendments to the Articles of Mondi plc may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
The board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total A special resolution will be put to the annual general meeting scheduled number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
for 7 May 2008 to adopt a new set of articles of association of Mondi plc, Any such director shall hold office only until the next annual general with certain further provisions becoming effective on 1 October 2008. meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election, but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting.
Powersofthedirectors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, the business of Mondi plc will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of Mondi plc.
The board may exercise all the powers of Mondi plc to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Mondi plc or of any third party.
Shareholder information Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 131
