Notestothecombined andconsolidated financialstatements Associates 1Accountingpolicies Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to Basisofpreparation exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through The Groups combined and consolidated financial statements have been participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Typically, the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of Standards Board IASB.
There are no differences for the Group in its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the applying IFRSs as issued by the IASB and the European Union EU and equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
therefore the Group also complies with IFRSs as endorsed by the EU.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the Basisofconsolidation fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Where the Groups share of the Duallistedstructure fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of The Group has two separate legal parent entities, Mondi Limited and acquisition exceeds the cost of the acquisition, the surplus, which Mondi plc, which operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited to the combined The substance of the DLC structure is such that Mondi Limited, and its and consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition.
subsidiaries, and Mondi plc, and its subsidiaries, operate together as a single economic entity through a sharing agreement, with neither parent The Groups share of associates profit or loss, presented net of tax, entity assuming a dominant role.
Accordingly, Mondi Limited and Mondi is based on financial statements drawn up to reporting dates that are plc are reported on a combined and consolidated basis as a single either coterminous with that of the Groups or no more than three reporting entity under IFRSs.
Further explanatory detail regarding the months prior to that date.
Where reporting dates are not coterminous, DLC structure and the sharing agreement is contained within note 26. adjustments are made to an associates profit or loss for the effects of significant transactions or events that occur after the associates Pre-demerger reporting date.
During the period up to 2 July 2007 and the prior year presented together, the pre-demerger period, the Group did not form a separate The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost legal group.
The Anglo American plc investment in the Group is of each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of therefore presented for the pre-demerger period, representing the post-acquisition retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and aggregated share capital, share premium and reserve balances of the any long-term debt interests which in substance form part of the Groups Groups constituent entities, together with debtor and creditor balances net investment.
The carrying values of associates are reviewed on a held in respect of the Anglo American group and deemed to be equity regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in funding in nature.
Any interest accruing on such balances is classified as the year in which those circumstances are identified.
The Groups share a dividend in specie and recorded separately through reserves, not of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not through the combined and consolidated income statement.
recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
 Jointventureentities The combined and consolidated financial statements incorporate the A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term assets, liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of Mondi interest and shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating Limited and Mondi plc, and of their respective subsidiary undertakings decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual drawn up to 31 December each year.
transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Subsidiary The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash undertakings are those entities over which the Group has the power, flows of jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate directly or indirectly, to govern operating and financial policy in order to consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share gain economic benefits.
of the results of the joint venture entity on a line-by-line basis with similar The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the years items in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
presented are included in the combined and consolidated income Revenuerecognition statement from the effective date of gaining control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are Saleofgoods made to the results of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured into alignment with those used by the Group.
at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale The interest of minority shareholders is initially stated as the minoritys is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on passed.
This is when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer, acquisition.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
excess of the minority interests capital are allocated against the interests of the Group.
Should future profits accrue to any such loss-making entity,  credits 2 the Group will recover the losses incurred on behalf of the minority Revenues generated from the sale of green energy and excess CO 2 interest.
Once the losses are fully recovered, future profits will become credits issued under international schemes are recorded as income allocable to the minority interest concerned.
within other net operating expenses in the combined and consolidated income statement when ownership rights pass to the buyer.
Interestincome Interest income, which is derived from cash and cash equivalents, available for sale investments, and loans and receivables, is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
58 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
