Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements 26 Reconciliation of movement in combined and consolidated equity continued  On 2 July 2007, the execution of the final demerger transaction resulted in the Mondi companies successfully demerging from Anglo American plc and becoming, collectively, a stand alone legal Group.
The Group has a dual listed structure and the shares of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, the ultimate holding companies for the African and the non-African assets respectively, were admitted to the JSE Limited JSE and the London Stock Exchange LSE on 3 July 2007.
The sharing agreement between Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ensures that the two respective sets of shareholders can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
Accordingly, the Group presents combined and consolidated equity, which represents the combined interests in the Groups equity of both sets of shareholders.
AngloAmericanplc Prior to the demerger, Anglo American plc injected capital of 120 million into the Mondi Group and took receipt of a final dividend of 202 million, crystallising a net return of capital of 82 million.
Interest of 32 million on a loan instrument deemed to be equity in nature was also capitalised using retained earnings attributable to Anglo American plc.
On 2 July 2007, the Anglo American plc investment in the Mondi Group 2,051 million was terminated by way of a dividend in specie of the whole interest in the Mondi Group to Mondi plcs newly created shareholders see below.
In addition, the legacy profits attributable to Anglo American plc, excluding Mondi Limited reserves 198 million, at the date of the demerger 832 million were written off to the demerger reserve.
Mondiplc On 2 July 2007, Mondi plc issued its own equity instruments to the owners of Anglo American plc, on a pro rata basis of one ordinary share of Mondi plc for every one Anglo American plc ordinary share held, in exchange for a 100% ownership interest in Mondi Investments Limited formerly Anglo Mondi Investments Limited or AMIL, a holding entity for the entire Mondi Group.
The fair value of the equity instruments issued of 2,938 million equalled the fair value of the underlying net assets of Mondi Investments Limited.
Prior to the listing of Mondi plcs shares on the LSE, the nominal share capital raised on the inward transfer of AMIL was reduced and transferred to retained earnings 2,864 million net of share issue costs 74 million and the issue of special converting shares 29 million.
The scrip issue of special converting shares is discussed in note 28.
The dividend in specie represents the transfer of Mondi Limited to its own, newly-created, external shareholders.
The share capital reduction, legally sanctioned by the UK High Court on 2 July 2007, was therefore used to create opening distributable reserves of Mondi plc 1,968 million.
MondiLimited Mondi Limiteds historical equity has been combined and consolidated with the equity attributable to Mondi plc.
A one-off currency translation adjustment resulted from the retranslation of Mondi Limiteds equity as at 2 July 2007.
 Asset values per share are disclosed in accordance with the JSE Listing Requirements.
Net asset value per share is defined as net assets divided by the combined number of shares in issue as at 31 December 2007 retrospectively applied to the net assets of the combined and consolidated comparative balance sheet, less treasury shares held.
Tangible net asset value per share is defined as the net assets less intangible assets divided by the combined number of shares in issue as at 31 December 2007 retrospectively applied to the tangible assets of the combined and consolidated comparative balance sheet, less treasury shares held.
2007 2006 Net asset value per share 6.56 6.41 Tangible net asset value per share 5.54 5.67 94 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
