 financialstatements Investments 1Accountingpolicies Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision for any Basisofpreparation diminution in value.
The financial statements of Mondi plc have been prepared in accordance Loansandreceivables with UK GAAP and in compliance with Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost using the effective to, the Companies Act 1985. interest rate method.
The results, assets and liabilities of Mondi plc are included in the  combined and consolidated financial statements of the Mondi Group, Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand which are publicly available.
Consequently, Mondi plc has made use of deposits, together with short-term, highly liquid investments of a maturity the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of of three months or less from the date of acquisition that are readily FRS 1 revised, Cash flow statements and has also made use of the convertible to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an exemption from preparing a profit and loss account, as conferred by insignificant risk of changes in value.
Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Borrowings Mondi plc is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8, Related Party Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Disclosures, from disclosing related party balances, and under the terms Borrowings classified as liabilities are subsequently stated at amortised of FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, from disclosing financial cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is instruments and risk management disclosures.
Financial instruments and recognised in the profit and loss account over the borrowing period using risk management disclosures are presented in the combined and the effective interest rate method.
Share-basedpayments  Mondi plc operates a number of share-based payment plans for its own Foreigncurrency staff and staff employed by other Group undertakings.
The fair value of an Foreign currency transactions are translated into euros, Mondi plcs equity instrument granted under such a plan is recorded in the share-based functional and presentational currency, at the rates of exchange payments reserve incrementally over the  prevailing on the dates that transactions are entered into.
Associated vesting period and either recognised as a capital contribution to the monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are employing subsidiaries, where applicable, or within profit or loss.
retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
At each balance sheet date, estimates regarding the future probability of Gains and losses arising on foreign currency transactions and balances service, and non-market performance, conditions being met are revised are recorded in the profit and loss account.
on a basis consistent with recent experience.
Any resultant revisions of Taxation original estimates are recorded as an adjustment to the cost of Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered investments in employing subsidiaries or profit or loss, as appropriate, using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively and the share-based payments reserve.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Employing subsidiaries reimburse Mondi plc for the cost of equity Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an instruments granted.
Reimbursement receipts represent a return obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay of capital contributed and are treated as a reduction in the cost of less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise investments in employing subsidiaries.
based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the Treasuryshares inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations The purchase by Mondi plc of its own equity instruments, either directly in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial or via an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trust over which statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on a timing difference arising Mondi plc has fide facto control, results in the recognition of treasury from the unremitted earnings of Mondi plcs direct and indirect subsidiaries, shares.
The consideration paid is deducted from shareholders funds and where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax is separately disclosed.
Where treasury shares are subsequently sold, assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in equity attributable to the equity holders of Mondi plc, net of any directly are not discounted.
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects.
Distributions Pensions Dividend distributions to the shareholders of Mondi plc are recognised as The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an a liability in the period in which the dividends are authorised and are no expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the longer at the discretion of the board.
Final dividends are accrued when payments and the charge is recognised as a short-term asset or liability.
approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting and interim Mondi plc does not participate in the Mondi Groups defined benefit dividends are accounted for when paid.
118 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
