  1Accountingpolicies Basisofpreparation The balance sheet and selected notes of Mondi Limited have been prepared in accordance with applicable IFRSs.
 The principal accounting policies applied by Mondi Limited are the same as those presented in note 1 to the combined and consolidated Group financial statements, to the extent that the Groups transactions and balances are applicable to a set of company financial statements.
Principally, the accounting policies which are not directly relevant to Mondi Limited are those relating to consolidation accounting and the recognition and subsequent measurement of goodwill.
The accounting policies which are either different, or additional, to those applied by the Group are stated as follows: Investments Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are reflected at cost less amounts written off and provisions for any impairments.
Share-basedpayments Mondi Limited operates a number of share-based payment plans for its own staff and staff employed by other Group entities.
The fair value of an equity instrument granted under such a plan is recorded in the share-based payments reserve incrementally over the  vesting period and either recognised as a capital contribution to the employing subsidiaries, where applicable, or within profit or loss.
At each balance sheet date, estimates regarding the future probability of service, and non-market performance conditions being met are revised on a basis consistent with recent experience.
Any resultant revisions of original estimates are recorded as an adjustment to the cost of investments in employing Group entities or profit or loss, as appropriate, and the share-based payments reserve.
Employing Group entities reimburse Mondi Limited for the cost of equity instruments granted.
Reimbursement receipts represent a return of capital contributed and are treated as a reduction in the cost of investments in employing Group entities.
 The accounting estimates and critical judgements applied by the key management of Mondi Limited are discussed in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements see note 1.
 R million 2007 2006 Unlisted Shares at cost 11 39 Loans advanced 654 879 Total investment in subsidiary entities 665 918 Repayable within one year disclosed as a current asset 65 777 Total long-term investment in subsidiary entities 600 141  R million 2007 2006 Mondi Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited Shares at cost Shareholders loan 128 128 Mezzanine loan 330 Total investment in joint venture 128 458 Repayable within one year disclosed as a current asset 330 Total long-term investment in joint venture 128 128 Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 123
