Glossary and Definitions Company Business, Financial and Accounting Antofagasta plc.
ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the CONAMA Group incorporated in Chile and operating the water concession Comisin Nacional del Medio Ambiente fide Chile Chilean in Chiles II Region acquired from ESSAN.
ADR DIA American Depositary Receipt.
Declaracin fide Impacto Ambiental, or Environmental Impact Declaration.
AIFR Directors All Injury Frequency Rate.
The Directors of the Company.
AMSA EBIT Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Earnings Before Interest and Tax.
Group incorporated in Chile which acts as the corporate centre for the mining division.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a 30%-owned EIA associate of the Group incorporated in Chile and operating the Estudios fide Impacto Ambiental, or Environmental Impact port in the city of Antofagasta.
Annual Report El Tesoro The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 of Minera El Tesoro, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group Antofagasta plc.
Australian Dollars EMS Australian currency.
Banco fide Chile EPS Banco fide Chile S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Barrick Gold Equatorial Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner of the Equatorial Mining Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group in Tethyan.
Board Esperanza The Directors of Antofagasta plc who collectively have Minera Esperanza, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business.
Capex ESSAN Capital expenditure s. Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. the Chilean state-owned company which formerly operated the regulated and Cash Costs non-regulated water distribution business in Chiles II Region.
A measure of the cost of operational production expressed in terms of cents per pound of payable copper produced.
EU Cash costs are stated net of by-product credits and include European Union.
tolling charges for concentrates for Los Pelambres.
Cash FCA costs exclude depreciation, financial income and expenses, Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. a 50%-owned subsidiary of hedging gains and losses, exchange gains and losses and the Group incorporated in Bolivia.
FCAB CCU Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean name for the Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate of Antofagasta Railway Company plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary Quienco.
of the Group incorporated in the United Kingdom and operating a rail network in Chiles II Region.
FTSE 100 Index A  weighted index representing the CGU performance of the 100 largest UK-domiciled blue chip companies, Cash Generating Unit.
representing approximately 82% of the UKs market capitalisation.
Chilean Peso FTSE All-Share Index Chilean currency.
A  weighted index representing the Combined Code or 2006 Combined Code performance of all eligible companies listed on the London The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance Stock Exchanges main market, representing approximately published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 and 98% of the UKs market capitalisation.
applicable to listed companies for reporting years beginning on GAAP or after 1 November 2006.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Accepted Companies Act 1985 Accounting Principles.
Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 148 GLOSSARY & DEFINITIONS GLOSSARY & DEFINITIONS GDP OHSAS 18.001 Gross Domestic Product.
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series standards for occupational health and safety management systems.
Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Provisional Pricing A sales term in several copper and molybdenum concentrate Guanaco sale agreements and cathodes sale agreements which provides South American animal, similar to the llama.
for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average LME copper Group price or monthly average molybdenum price for specific future Antofagasta plc and its subsidiaries companies.
periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery Hedge Accounting to the customer.
For the purposes of IAS 39, the provisional Accounting treatment for derivatives financial instrument sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative i. e. the permitted under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently Measurement, which recognises the offsetting effects on adjusted which is separated from the host contract i. e. the profit or loss of changes in the fair values of a hedging sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the instrument and the hedged item.
provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
IAS Quienco International Accounting Standards.
Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family and listed on the Santiago IASB Stock Exchange.
Realised Prices IFRIC Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues grossed up International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
for tolling charges for concentrate with sales volumes.
IFRS ROCE International Financial Reporting Standards.
IRR SENCE Internal Rate of Return.
Servicio Nacional fide Capacitacin y Empleo fide Chile Chilean ISO 9.001 National Training and Employment Service.
An international quality management system standard published Severity Rate by the International Organisation for Standardisation.
Number of lost days during the year in relation to the number of hours worked.
ISO 14.001 An international environmental management system standard Sterling published by the International Organisation for Standardisation.
IVA SVS Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Tax Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the Chilean Chilean VAT.
Key Management Personnel Tethyan Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, directing Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned joint venture and controlling the activities of the Group.
entity of the Group incorporated in Australia.
KPI TSR Key performance indicator.
Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the Companys share price plus reinvested dividends.
LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
Turnbull Guidance LME The revised guidance on internal control for directors on London Metal Exchange.
Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group in October 2005.
Los Pelambres UF Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary of the Group Unidad fide Fomento, an inflation-adjusted unit of account incorporated in Chile.
LSE UK London Stock Exchange.
LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Michilla US Dollars Minera Michilla S. A. a 74.2%-owned subsidiary of the Group United States currency.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 149 Glossary and Definitions continued Open Pit Mining Industry Mine working or excavation which is open to the surface.
Brownfield Project A development or exploration project in the vicinity of an Ore existing operation.
Rock from which metal s or mineral s can be economically and legally extracted.
By-products credits in copper concentrates Products obtained as result of copper processing.
The Los Ore Grade Pelambres mine produces molybdenum concentrate and also The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal content in an receives credit for the gold and silver content in the copper orebody or quantity of processed ore. concentrate sold.
Ore Reserves Cathode Copper Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure have been carried out to demonstrate at a given date extraction copper by electro-winning.
could be reasonably justified and which include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, Concentrate economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and The product of a physical concentration process, such as governmental factors.
flotation or gravity concentration, which involves separating ore minerals from unwanted wasted rock.
Concentrates require Oxide and Sulphide Ores subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore occurs on down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the desired the weathered surface of ore-rich lodes and normally results elements, usually metals.
in the production of cathode copper through a heap-leaching process.
Sulphide ore comes from unweathered parent ores Contained Copper process and normally results in the production of concentrate The proportion or quantity of copper contained in a given through a flotation process which then requires smelting and quantity of ore or concentrate.
refining to produce cathode copper.
Cut-off Grade Payable Copper The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic The proportion or quantity of contained copper for which to process and used in the calculation of ore reserves and payment is received after metallurgical deduction.
PM10 Limit Grade A Copper Cathode The air quality standard PM-10 Environmental Protection Highest quality copper cathode LME registered and certificated Agency US includes particles with a diameter of in the case of Michilla and El Tesoro.
10 micrometres 10 microns or less 0.0004 inches Greenfield Project or one-seventh the width of a human hair.
The development or exploration of a new project not previously Porphyry examined.
A large body of rock which contains disseminated chalcopyrite Flotation and other sulphide minerals.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on A process by which chemicals are added to materials in a a large scale, generally in open pits, for copper and its bysolution which are attracted to bubbles and float, whilst other product molybdenum.
materials sink, resulting in the production of concentrate.
Price Participation Heap Leaching Part of the tolling charges for copper concentrate under a A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
The crushed sales agreement, usually in addition to TC RCs and calculated material is laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and a percentage of the difference between the copper price at final leached by uniformly trickling gravity fed chemical solution pricing and an agreed reference copper price, and which may through the beds to ponds.
The metal is then recovered from result in an increase or decrease to TC RCs.
the solution through the SX-EW process.
Price Sharing JORC Tolling charges calculated under a sales agreement as an Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
agreed percentage of the price for the metal contained in copper concentrate, as an alternative to TC RCs and or price Leaching participation.
The process by which a soluble mineral can be economically recovered by dissolution.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
LOM or Life Of Mine The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, calculated by SX-EW reference to scheduled production rates i. e. comparing the rate Solvent Extraction and Electro Winning.
A process for extracting at which ore is expected to be extracted from the mine to metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal current defined reserves.
is leached into solution: the resulting solution is then purified in the solvent extraction process: the solution is then treated Mineral Resources Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such form in an electro chemical process electro winning to recover and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual cathode copper.
Mineral resources are stated inclusive Tailings Dam of ore reserves, as defined by JORC.
Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains MW as a result of the concentrating process after the recoverable Megawatts one million watts.
minerals have been extracted in concentrate form.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 150 GLOSSARY & DEFINITIONS GLOSSARY & DEFINITIONS TC RC Treatment and refining charges, being terms used to set the smelting and refining charge or margin for processing copper concentrate and normally set either on an annual basis or on a spot basis.
Tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity of ore processed over a given period of time expressed as a daily average.
Tolling Charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate into finished metal.
These include TC RCs, price participation and price sharing for copper concentrate and roasting charges for molybdenum concentrate.
Underground Mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Currency Abbreviations US cents Cents of US Dollars.
Definitions and Conversion of Weights and Measures g t grammes per tonne.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 151
