 The Group sponsored a trip by  Marcia Stewart, an employee at the Cautionary statement 25 young musicians from a local Thermal Ceramics plant in Elkhart, community school in Windsor to Beijing Ilinois has a 35 year track record of This Business Review has been where they played in a number of community service, focused on youth prepared for and only for the members concerts and participated in lessons programmes.
Last year she also raised of the Company as a body and no and played alongside Chinese pupils.
$600 to support child abuse victims other persons.
Its purpose is to assist and has collected over 100 pairs of shareholders to assess the Companys  In the USA, both the Company and shoes for underprivileged children.
strategies and the potential for those employees contribute to the United strategies to succeed and for no other Way, the nationwide community Europe purpose.
The Company, its Directors, based fund raising organisation which  Employees at the Carbon Divisions employees, agents or advisers do not focuses on local issues with common site in Swansea, UK have been raising accept or assume responsibility for any themes, including helping children money for the British Heart Foundation other purpose or to any other person succeed, access to health care and and for local charities.
Activities include to whom this document is shown or strengthening families.
In total some a sponsored cycle ride through into whose hands it may come and $77,758 was raised during the year.
any such responsibility or liability is  Morgan Crucible continued to support expressly disclaimed.
This Business  The team at Technical Ceramics and fund the joint Barnardos Outward Review contains forward looking Southampton in the UK sponsored Bound initiative which provides statements that are subject to risk one of their members to compete opportunities for young people to factors associated with amongst other in the Race for Life in aid of Cancer develop life skills at a centre in things, the economic and business Research UK.
The site also donated Ullswater, UK.
circumstances occurring from time 5 for each completed employee to time in the countries, sectors and Employee activities survey, bringing the total raised to markets in which the Group operates.
These and other factors could Our staff also support a variety of local and national initiatives and projects,  The 2007 London Marathon also saw adversely affect the outcome and helping to raise funds and giving their a number of Morgan Crucible financial effects of the plans and time.
Examples include: employees competing to raise money events described.
Forward looking for Cancer Research UK and the statements by their nature involve Asia a number of risks, uncertainties and Multiple Sclerosis Resource Centre.
assumptions because they relate  Employees and management at the Suppliers and customers Thermal Ceramics plant in Ranipet, to events and or depend on India, marked Earth Day 2007 by Our customer service strategy is to circumstances that may or may not joining with local residents to raise respond quickly to changing customer occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ environmental awareness and to plant demand, to identify emerging needs materially from those expressed in trees at a near-by school, helping to and to improve product availability, create a local green-belt.
We stay close to or implied by the forward looking our current and potential customers, statements.
It is believed that the  Also in India, employees worked with building long-term relationships.
expectations reflected in these a local hospital to organise an in-plant statements are reasonable but they Our quality management systems blood donation camp.
Some 50% of may be affected by a wide range of help ensure that our products meet or employees volunteered, most of them exceed customer requirements.
No assurances can first time donors.
93% of the Groups manufacturing be given that the forward looking Americas capacity is accredited to ISO9001.
statements in this Business Review will be realised.
The forward looking  Steve Ashford, a machinist at the Morgan To help embed this strategy and statements reflect the knowledge Technical Ceramics plant in Hayward, develop an organisation-wide customer and information available at the orientated culture, a number of our California, works semi-flexible shifts so date of preparation and will not be that he can spend time at East Palo Alto businesses organise related events and updated during the year but will be Charter School.
The school is in one of awards.
For example, 30 shopfloor and considered in the Business Review the most economically disadvantaged other workers from Morganite Crucible for next year.
This Business Review areas of California where there has India Ltd visited a nearby customer, has not been audited or otherwise gaining insight into how our products been a high level of student drop-out.
Steve uses a combination of physical address customer needs.
education and music he is also the We aim to work with our suppliers and rapper Kontac to enrich his pupils partners in mutually beneficial ways, lives and inspire them to stay in school.
and, so far as is practicable, require This and other local initiatives have that our customers and suppliers, helped to start turning the East Palo joint venture partners and contractors Alto neighborhood around.
throughout the supply chain, act Steves video link can be found on: in accordance with our policies www.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 39
