qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 48 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Actuarial losses gains arising on defined benefit plan 0.9 0.7 Income tax credit in respect of share options recognised directly in equity - 0.9 Deferred tax on retirement benefit obligation recognised directly in equity 0.3 0.3 Movement on hedged items on cash flow hedges in equity accounted joint ventures 1.4 1.4 Net expense income recognised directly in equity 2.0 2.7 Profit for the year 39.4 32.8 Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company 37.4 35.5 48 2007 ACCOUNTS ART.
qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 49 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 Notes m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 24 158.1 47.9 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 8.4 3.8 Dividends received from joint ventures - 7.2 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 1.1 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 8.0 3.2 Payments to acquire interests in joint ventures 5.0 0.9 Payment for the acquisition of a subsidiary 25.5 23.0 Net cash acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary 14.2 4.8 Net cash outflow from investing activities 15.3 10.2 Cash flows from financing activities Payments to acquire own shares 2.1 1.6 Dividends paid 12.6 10.9 Repayments of obligations under finance leases 4.7 1.9 Repayment of loan notes - 0.1 Proceeds on issue of share capital 0.1 0.2 Net cash outflow from financing activities 19.3 14.3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 123.5 23.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 95.4 72.0 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year Bank balances and cash 218.9 95.4 49 2007 ACCOUNTS ART.
qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 50 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2007 Reporting entity Morgan Sindall plc the Company, is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial report includes separate financial statements for the Company and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures.
Basis of preparation a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
At the time of the authorisation of the financial statements IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, International Accounting Standard IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 14 were in issue but not yet effective and have not been applied in these financial statements, and are not anticipated to have any material impact on the Groups consolidated income statement or balance sheet.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures in relation to IFRS 8.
It is not anticipated that the application of IFRIC 14 will affect the financial statements given the current net pension liability position of the Group.
b Basis of measurement The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where otherwise indicated.
c Functional and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Groups functional currency.
All financial information, unless otherwise stated, has been rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
d Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expense.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and any revision to estimates or assumptions are recognised in the period in which revised and in any future periods affected.
No individual judgements have been made that have a significant impact upon the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
i Accounting for construction contracts under IAS 11 Construction Contracts Under this standard, management is required to estimate total expected contract costs and the percentage of contract completion in determining the appropriate revenue and profit to recognise in the period.
The Group has appropriate control procedures to ensure all estimates are determined on a consistent basis and subject to appropriate review and authorisation.
Management also exercised judgement in respect of determining the fair value of certain construction contract related provisions relating to the acquisition from Amec plc.
qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 51 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2007 continued d Use of estimates and judgements continued ii Impairment of goodwill under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets Subject to the initial recognition of goodwill under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis or earlier where any event or change in circumstance is identified that indicates that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Testing for impairment under this accounting standard requires a comparison of the carrying amount of goodwill against the recoverable amount, which is determined by an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated.
Value-in-use requires estimation of the future cash flows expected from the cash-generating unit as well as an appropriate growth factor and discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
iii Accounting for the Groups Defined Benefit Plan under IAS 19 Employee Benefits The directors engage an independent and qualified actuary to calculate the Groups liability in respect of the defined benefit plan.
In order to arrive at this valuation, certain assumptions in respect of discount rates, salary escalations, medical cost trend rate, expected return on the plans assets and future pension increases have been made.
Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics and mortality tables.
As the actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from those assumed, the actual pension liability may differ from that recognised in these financial statements.
iv Recognition and measurement of intangible assets under IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 38 Intangible Assets As a result of the acquisition from Amec plc in the year and the subsequent exercise to fair value the assets and liabilities acquired, the Group recognised certain intangible assets in respect of secured customer contracts, other contracts and related relationships, software, a non-compete agreement and goodwill.
The recognition and subsequent measurement of these intangible assets required management to make certain assumptions and estimates, particularly in respect of the estimated useful lives over which the future economic benefits embodied in those finite life intangible assets recognised are expected to flow to the Group.
To assist in making these judgements, the directors engaged an independent expert to assist in the determination of the fair values and the estimated useful lives of these assets.
qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 52 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2007 continued The accounting policies as set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Certain comparatives have been reclassified to conform with the current years presentation.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are controlled by the Group.
Control is exerted where the Group has the power to govern, directly or indirectly, the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Typically a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights is indicative of control: however the impact of potential voting rights currently exercisable is taken into consideration.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of new subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to align with those of the Group.
b Joint ventures The Group has interests in joint ventures which are jointly controlled entities.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, which requires unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the establishment of an entity in which each venturer has an interest.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture, net of any subsequent impairment losses.
Goodwill relating to a joint venture which is acquired directly is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
After application of the equity method, the Groups investments in joint ventures are reviewed to determine whether any additional impairment loss in relation to the net investment in the joint venture is required.
The consolidated income statement includes the Groups equity accounted share of joint ventures revenue and expenses net of tax.
When there is a change recognised directly in the equity of the joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, where applicable, in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Where the Groups share of losses exceed its equity accounted investment in a joint venture, the carrying amount of the equity is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations.
Appropriate adjustment is made to the results of joint ventures where material differences exist between the joint ventures accounting policies and those of the Group.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
The Groups share of the results and net assets of contracts carried out in joint venture are included under each relevant heading in the income statement and balance sheet.
c Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in that investment.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 53 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2007 continued Revenue a Construction contracts Revenue related to construction contracts includes the amount initially agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work and incentive payments to the extent that it is probable they will result in revenue and can be reliably measured.
As soon as the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract revenue and expense is recognised in the income statement on a stage of contract completion basis.
The stage of completion is determined by reference to a survey of work performed.
Losses expected in bringing a contract to completion are recognised immediately in the income statement as soon as they are foreseen.
b Service contracts Revenue from service contracts is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract at reporting date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work performed.
c Sale of development properties Revenue from the sale of development properties and other goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods and the amount of revenue can be estimated reliably.
The transfer of risks and rewards vary depending on the individual terms of the contract of sale.
For properties, transfer usually occurs when the ownership has been legally transferred to the purchaser.
Revenue from the sale of properties taken in part exchange is not included in revenue.
Pre-contract costs incurred prior to the appointment as preferred bidder for a contract are expensed.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct materials, direct labour and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold and leasehold properties, plant, machinery and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method on the following bases: Freehold property 2% per annum Leasehold property Over the period of the lease Plant, machinery and equipment Between 10% and 33% per annum Motor vehicles Between 20% and 25% per annum Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed and updated annually.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they become available for productive use.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal against the carrying amount and are recognised in other income in the income statement.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount only where it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 54 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2007 continued Intangible assets a Goodwill i Initial recognition Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of Groups interest in the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Where that excess is negative i. e. negative goodwill, it is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
ii Subsequent measurement Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
In respect of equity accounted investments, goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
iii Impairment Goodwill is subject to an impairment review on an annual basis or earlier where a factor or change in circumstance has been identified which may indicate impairment.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units of the Group at acquisition.
The cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated is the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is lower than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment loss is first applied to the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a prorata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any such impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
b Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, such as those identified on acquisition by the Group that have finite useful lives, are recognised at fair value and measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is recognised on a straight line basis in the income statement over the estimated useful life of finite life intangible assets, from the date that they are available for use.
The Group has the following significant classes of finite life intangible assets: i Secured customer contracts On acquisition, value is attributable to customer contracts to the extent that future economic benefits are expected to flow from the contracts.
The fair value of customer contracts recognised in the Group financial statements has been determined with the assistance of an independent expert.
Secured customer contracts are amortised over their expected useful lives.
ii Other contracts and related relationships On acquisition, value is attributed to non-contractual relationships and other contracts with long-standing or valuable clients to the extent that future economic benefits are expected to flow from the relationships.
The fair value of other contracts and related relationships recognised in the Group financial statements has been determined with the assistance of an independent expert.
Other contracts and related relationships are amortised over their expected useful lives.
iii Software Software acquired on acquisition is valued on a replacement cost basis and is amortised over its expected useful life.
iv Non-compete agreements Value is attributable to contractual non-compete agreements acquired through acquisition to the extent they ensure that the value paid for a business is not diminished by the previous owner or its employees taking away revenue through competition.
Non-compete agreements are amortised over their useful lives.
The estimated useful lives for the Groups finite life intangible assets are: Secured customer contracts 1 3 years Other contracts and related relationships 1 16 years Software 1 3 years Non-compete agreements 3 years 54 2007 ACCOUNTS ART.
qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 55 Significant accounting policies for the year ended 31 December 2007 continued Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets including previously unrecognised intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Income tax The income tax expense represents the current tax and deferred tax charges.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
Current tax is the Groups expected tax liability on taxable profit for the year using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted at the reporting date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from that reported in the income statement because it is adjusted for items of income or expense that are assessable or deductible in other years and is adjusted for items that are never assessable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the corresponding tax bases used in tax computations.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at the tax rates expected to apply when they reverse based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities.
Finance income and expense Finance income comprises bank and other interest.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Finance expense comprises interest on bank overdrafts, unwinding of the discounts on provisions, impairment losses recognised on financial assets, and losses on hedging instruments recognised through the income statement.
The finance charge component of minimum lease payments made under finance leases is also recognised as a finance expense using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement on an effective interest method in the period in which they are incurred.
