qxd 28 2 08 20:54 Page 86 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 27 Financial instruments continued c Market risk: Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates or equity prices, will affect the Groups income or the carrying amount of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to achieve a level of market risk that is within acceptable parameters as set out in the Group risk management framework.
Interest rate risk The Group is not exposed to significant interest rate risk as it does not have significant interest bearing liabilities and its only interest bearing asset is cash invested on a short-term basis.
Certain of the Groups equity accounted joint ventures enter into interest rate swaps to manage their exposure to interest rate risk arising on floating rate bank borrowings.
The Groups share of joint ventures interest rate and retail price index swap contracts with nominal values of 29.4m have fixed interest payments at an average rate of 4.98% for periods up until 2033.
The Groups share of the fair value of swaps entered into at 31 December 2007 by joint ventures is estimated at a 2.2m liability 2006: 0.8m liability.
These amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date.
All interest rate swaps are designated as hedging instruments and are effective as cash flow hedges.
The fair value thereof has been taken to the hedging reserve note 22.
Currency risk The majority of the Groups operations are carried out in the United Kingdom and the Group has an insignificant level of exposure to currency risk on sales and purchases.
Given the insignificant exposure to foreign currency movements, the Groups policy is not to hedge foreign currency transactions unless they are material, at which point derivative financial instruments are entered into so as to hedge forecast or actual foreign currency exposures.
d Capital management: The Board aims to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the business.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 21 and 22.
From time to time certain companies within the Group use short-term debt in the form of bank overdrafts.
The Group overall has no debt.
The Group dividend policy is stated in the financial review on page 12.
The Board aims to achieve a suitable balance between higher returns that may be possible through borrowing and the stability afforded by a sound capital position.
There were no changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the year and the Group is not subject to any capital requirements imposed by regulatory authorities.
28 Subsequent events On 12 January 2008, the Group acquired certain assets and contracts of Elec-Track Installations Limited for a purchase consideration of 1.0m.
The combined net assets were 2.0m.
An exercise to review the fair value of the assets is underway, full details of which will be included in the Group 2008 report and accounts.
