Independent Auditors Report Company Accounts To the members of N Brown Group plc In addition we report to you if, in our the parent company financial We have audited the parent company opinion, the company has not kept statements have been properly prepared financial statements of N Brown Group plc proper accounting records, if we have in accordance with the Companies for the 52 week period ended 24 February not received all the information and Act 1985.
2007 which comprise the balance sheet explanations we require for our audit, the information given in the directors or if information specified by law regarding and the related notes 1 to 8.
These parent report is consistent with the parent directors remuneration and other company financial statements have been company financial statements.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We read other information contained Chartered Accountants and Registered in the annual report as described in the We have reported separately on the group Auditors contents section and consider whether financial statements of N Brown Group plc Manchester it is consistent with the audited parent for the 52 week period ended 24 February company financial statements.
We 2007 and on the information in the directors 25 May 2007 consider the implications for our report remuneration report that is described as if we become aware of any apparent being audited.
misstatements or material inconsistencies This report is made solely to the with the parent company financial companys members, as a body, in statements.
Our responsibilities do accordance with section 235 of the not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Basis of audit opinion the companys members those matters we We conducted our audit in accordance are required to state to them in an auditors with International Standards on Auditing report and for no other purpose.
To the UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Practices Board.
An audit includes accept or assume responsibility to anyone examination, on a test basis, of evidence other than the company and the relevant to the amounts and disclosures companys members as a body, for our in the parent company financial statements.
audit work, for this report, or for the It also includes an assessment of the opinions we have formed.
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Respective responsibilities of directors financial statements, and of whether the and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the The directors responsibilities for preparing companys circumstances, consistently the annual report, the directors remuneration applied and adequately disclosed.
report and the group financial statements We planned and performed our audit in accordance with applicable law and so as to obtain all the information and United Kingdom Accounting Standards explanations which we considered United Kingdom Generally Accepted necessary in order to provide us with Accounting Practice are set out in the sufficient evidence to give reasonable directors report.
assurance that the individual company Our responsibility is to audit the parent financial statements are free from material company financial statements and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud part of the directors remuneration report or other irregularity or error.
In forming to be audited in accordance with relevant our opinion we also evaluated the legal and regulatory requirements and overall adequacy of the presentation International Standards on Auditing of information in the parent company UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether Opinion the parent company financial statements In our opinion: give a true and fair view and whether they have been properly prepared in accordance the parent company financial statements with the Companies Act 1985.
We also give a true and fair view, in accordance report to you if, in our opinion, the with United Kingdom Generally Accepted directors report is consistent with Accounting Practice, of the state of the the parent company financial statements.
companys affairs as at 24 February 2007: 68 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007
