56 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Glossary AGM Annual General Meeting Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council CPI Consumer Price Index CR Corporate Responsibility The Company National Express Group PLC DfT Department for Transport DNA The name for our leadership development strategy EBT Employee Benefit Trust EBITDA Normalised operating profit before depreciation and other non-cash items excluding discontinued operations EPS Earnings Per Share The profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding those held by the Employee Benefit Trust and shares held in treasury which are treated as cancelled.
EU European Union The Group The Company and its subsidiaries IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards KPI Key Performance Indicator LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan NXEA National Express East Anglia NXEC National Express East Coast Normalised diluted earnings Earnings per share and excluding the profit or loss on sale of businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the disposal of non current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortization, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional terms Normalised profit Profit before tax, goodwill impairment, intangible amortization and exceptional items For the purposes of Directors Remuneration OFR Operating and Financial Review RPS Railway Pension Scheme SPAD Signal Passed at Danger TfL Transport for London TOC Train Operating Company TSR Total Shareholder Return the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles... by working as one Four individual train businesses, four bus businesses, a coach operator and an airport transfer service, all in the UK.
Now when we talk to a customer who wants to get from Gatwick to Glasgow or Norwich to Newcastle, we present a more joined-up This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is printed on Revive 75 silk, the paper is produced from 75% approach.
recovered waste and 25% virgin fibre.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited And one much happier customer.
to ISO14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement and both are FSC certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This annual report is available at www.
com Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Printed by Cousins National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Making travel simpler... National Express Group PLC 7 Triton Square London NW1 3HG Tel: 44 0 8450 130130 Fax: 44 0 20 7506 4320 e-mail: info@nationalexpress.
