107 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 1 Accounting policies continued Share-based payment In accordance with the transition provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Company awards equity-settled share-based payment to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant by an external valuer using a stochastic model.
Non-market-based performance-related vesting conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value: instead those non-market conditions are taken into account in calculating the current best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and at each balance sheet date before vesting.
The cumulative expense is calculated based on that estimate.
Market-based performance conditions are taken into account when determining the fair value and at each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated irrespective of whether or not the market conditions are satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all material timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not in that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Any exchange differences so arising are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps is calculated by reference to market exchange rates and interest rates at the period end.
In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the profit and loss account.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the profit and loss account.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, including the foreign currency contracts, gains or losses are taken directly to the profit and loss account in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
2 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to the pound for the Company are as follows: 2007 2007 2006 2006 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US dollar 1.98 2.00 1.96 1.85 Canadian dollar 1.98 2.15 2.28 2.09 Euro 1.36 1.46 1.48 1.47 Australian dollar 2.27 2.39 2.48 2.44 3 Directors emoluments Detailed information concerning Directors emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
