59 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Corporate information The consolidated accounts of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 28 February 2008 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by S R Bowker and A C Walker.
National Express Group PLC is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Operating and Financial Review OFR that accompanies these accounts.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committees IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Information except in extremely rare circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly its accounts.
On this basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits and has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 35, including the impact on the Groups reported financial performance and position of adopting this accounting treatment as required by IAS 1.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available for sale investments detailed below.
As noted above, the Group has taken the extremely rare decision to depart from the requirement of IAS 19 Employee Benefits so as to present fairly its financial performance, position and cash flows in respect of its obligation for the RPS.
The details of this departure and impact on the Groups accounts are set out in note 35.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 is set out below.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets including goodwill and measurement of defined benefit pension obligations.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines whether indefinite life intangible assets are impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 14.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate see note 35.
The consolidated accounts are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group income statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
On the sale of a business, the Group income statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures which take the form of agreements to share control of other entities.
The Group recognises its interest in the entitys assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group balance sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets and the income statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Accounts of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups accounts to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest accounts under the equity method.
