115 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Shareholder information Shareholder electronic communications By registering for electronic communications you can help us to conserve environmental resources by reducing print, paper and postage costs.
co. uk if you would like to: register your e-mail so that future shareholder information, including the annual report and accounts, are sent to you electronically: check the balance of your shareholding: set up a dividend mandate online: change your registered postal address or your dividend mandate details: or submit your vote online prior to a general meeting.
To sign up for the first time you should click on Register and follow the simple instructions you will need your shareholder reference number from your share certificate or dividend voucher or any other correspondence sent to you by Equiniti Limited formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Dividends paid direct to your bank account Having dividends paid direct to your bank account has the following advantages: avoids the risk of cheques being lost and incurring a replacement fee: saves you time in presenting the cheque for payment: and the dividend is credited to your account on the payment date.
The tax voucher is sent to your registered address at the same time as the dividend is credited to your account.
To set up a new dividend mandate please log on to www.
co. uk or contact the Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Share dealing service A telephone and internet share dealing service, which provides a simple way to buy and sell shares, is available through our Registrars, Equiniti.
For further information log on to www.
co. uk dealing or telephone 0871 384 2020.
Calls to these numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Company website The company website at www.
com has information about the Group, press releases, share price data and copies of the half year and annual report and accounts.
Sharegift ShareGift is an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make it uneconomic to sell them, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from www.
Unclaimed assets register The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register UAR which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may have been forgotten.
For further information contact UAR, 6th Floor, Cardinal Place, 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL Tel: 0870 241 1713 or visit www.
