117 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Glossary AGM Annual General Meeting Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council CPI Consumer Price Index... by CR Corporate Responsibility The Company National Express Group PLC DfT Department for Transport working DNA The name for our leadership development strategy EBT Employee Benefit Trust EBITDA Normalised operating profit before depreciation and other non-cash items excluding discontinued operations as one EPS Earnings Per Share The profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding those held by the Employee Benefit Trust and shares held in treasury which are treated as cancelled.
EU European Union The Group The Company and its subsidiaries IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards KPI Key Performance Indicator LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan NXEA National Express East Anglia NXEC National Express East Coast Normalised diluted earnings Earnings per share and excluding the profit or loss on sale of businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the disposal of non current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortization, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional terms Normalised profit Profit before tax, goodwill impairment, intangible amortization and exceptional items For the purposes of Directors Remuneration OFR Operating and Financial Review RPS Railway Pension Scheme SPAD Signal Passed at Danger TfL Transport for London TOC Train Operating Company TSR Total Shareholder Return the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period assuming that Four individual train businesses, four bus businesses, a dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares coach operator and an airport transfer service, all in the UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK.
Now when we talk to a customer who wants to get from Gatwick to Glasgow or Norwich to Newcastle, we present a more joined-up approach.
And one much happier customer.
This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on Revive 50:50 silk and Revive 50:50 uncoated, both papers are produced from 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement and both are FSC certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This annual report is available at www.
com Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Printed by Cousins National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Making travel simpler... National Express Group PLC 7 Triton Square London NW1 3HG Tel: 44 0 8450 130130 Fax: 44 0 20 7506 4320 e-mail: info@nationalexpress.
com National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Making travel simpler... National Express Group PLC 7 Triton Square London NW1 3HG Tel: 44 0 8450 130130 Fax: 44 0 20 7506 4320 e-mail: info@nationalexpress.
com... by working as one Four individual train businesses, four bus businesses, a coach operator and an airport transfer service, all in the UK.
Now when we talk to a customer who wants to get from Gatwick to Glasgow or Norwich to Newcastle, we present a more joined-up This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is printed on Revive 75 silk, the paper is produced from 75% approach.
recovered waste and 25% virgin fibre.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited And one much happier customer.
to ISO14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement and both are FSC certified.
com Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Printed by Cousins Researching what our customers think and want is vital.
If we understand them better, we can create new opportunities for them to travel with us.
On National Express East Coast, for example, were planning 25 new services a day by 2010.
Would you like to choose your seat when you book, or see which trains are less crowded?
On our new website youll be able to.
And soon youll be able to book a Dot2Dot transfer from Kings Cross at the same time.... by creating new opportunities You can view your customers as statistics.
Or you can treat them as individuals, each needing something different.
By putting our customers at the heart of what we do, were doing it differently.
Like offering commuter coaches with laptop plugs and wi-fi.
Like asking what would make a North American school bus better.
Like fitting child seat belts to all of our UK coaches.
Our research says our customers do.... by making customers our priority... by working together Were joining-up with other organisations to create more opportunities for our customers and our business.
In partnership with the West Midlands transport authority, Centro, weve transformed six Birmingham bus routes.
Result: 10% more customers within months on some routes, and plans for a much more far-reaching partnership.
Were partnering with airlines and tour operators to make Dot2Dot transfers part of their service.
And weve become transport partner for major event venues and organisers such as Twickenham and Wembley stadiums.
by protecting the future Everyone knows public transport is a sound environmental choice.
At National Express we aim to get even greener.
Weve started trialling hybrid buses in London.
By adding regenerative braking to all c2c trains, weve achieved a 20% reduction in energy use.
Weve found that by investing in driver training at National Express East Anglia we can further reduce energy consumption.
And in Leon weve launched Spains first electric bus service.
For many of our customers, our sustainability is a key reason for leaving the car at home.
Its a competitive edge we dont take lightly.
10 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 11 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Making our strategy work Contents 12 Highlights 13 Chairmans Statement 16 Chief Executives Review 20 Divisional Review 22 Operating Review Trains Buses Coaches North America Spain 32 Financial Review 36 Corporate Responsibility 38 Board of Directors and Company Secretary 40 Summary Directors Report 41 Summary Corporate Governance Report 43 Summary Directors Remuneration Report 49 Independent Auditors Statement to the Members of National Express Group PLC Group 50 Group Primary Financial Statement 54 Shareholder Information 56 Glossary
