59 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Corporate information The consolidated accounts of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 28 February 2008 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by S R Bowker and A C Walker.
National Express Group PLC is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Operating and Financial Review OFR that accompanies these accounts.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committees IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Information except in extremely rare circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly its accounts.
On this basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits and has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 35, including the impact on the Groups reported financial performance and position of adopting this accounting treatment as required by IAS 1.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available for sale investments detailed below.
As noted above, the Group has taken the extremely rare decision to depart from the requirement of IAS 19 Employee Benefits so as to present fairly its financial performance, position and cash flows in respect of its obligation for the RPS.
The details of this departure and impact on the Groups accounts are set out in note 35.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 is set out below.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets including goodwill and measurement of defined benefit pension obligations.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines whether indefinite life intangible assets are impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 14.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate see note 35.
The consolidated accounts are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group income statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
On the sale of a business, the Group income statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures which take the form of agreements to share control of other entities.
The Group recognises its interest in the entitys assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group balance sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets and the income statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Accounts of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups accounts to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest accounts under the equity method.
60 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Income statement presentation The income statement has been presented in a columnar format to highlight the impact of intangible assets amortisation and exceptional items.
This is to enable users of the financial statements to view the normalised results of the Group.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the sale of non-current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency require separate identification on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years.
Revenue recognition Rendering of services Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services, airport operations and related activities in the UK, North America and Europe.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
UK Trains revenue includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies TOCs, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts.
In addition, franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport Rail Division DfT Rail and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue.
Franchise agreement payments to DfT Rail are recognised in operating costs.
UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales.
UK Bus and European Coach & Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is recognised as the services are provided.
For all the divisions noted above, the relevant share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard.
North American Bus revenue from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.
Rental income Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest income Revenue is recognised using the effective interest method.
Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the income statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as the related expenditure is expensed.
Segmental reporting Each of the Groups business and geographical segments provides services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the other business segments.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations the distinct business segments align directly with geographical segments which are operating in separate economic environments.
The Groups segments comprise: UK Bus: UK Coach: UK Trains: North American Bus: European Coach & Bus: and Central functions.
These segments are described in more detail in the OFR accompanying these accounts.
Operations in our North America Public Transit business was discontinued in 2005.
The net assets of Stewart International Airport were disclosed in disposal group assets classified as held for sale and liabilities disclosed in liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale at 31 December 2006 reflecting the sale of this business in 2007.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of lease.
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred in accordance with the benchmark accounting treatment under IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
61 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 2 Accounting policies continued Current tax and deferred tax Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned.
Income taxes are recognised in the income statement unless it relates to an item accounted for in equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in equity.
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not in that there will be taxable profits from which the future reversal of underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38, Intangible Assets, are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life assets are amortised on a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised.
The amortisation expense is taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
The existing finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer contracts over the life of the contract between 1 and 33 years Right to operate TOC franchises over the life of the franchise between 1 and 7 years Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and the useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
The Groups indefinite life intangible assets include customer relationships and goodwill.
Customer relationship intangible assets are recognised only on contracts where historical experience has shown that these contracts are consistently renewed.
Goodwill IFRS 3 Business Combinations, has been applied to the accounting for business combinations from 1 January 2004, as permitted by IFRS 1.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historic cost less any accumulated impairment.
If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost previously referred to as negative goodwill, this is credited immediately to the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill is not amortised.
All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge recognised as required.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further evidence gained post acquisition.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment.
Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 the Group has elected to deem the fair value of certain revalued assets to be equivalent to cost.
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years Long leasehold property improvements 15 to 40 years Public service vehicles 8 to 15 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years The carrying value of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the assets net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Future depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the assets revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.
Financial instruments The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, including directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets held by the Group include certain derivative contracts and investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available for sale financial assets.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement.
Where there is no active market for the Groups investments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, assets are carried at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, interest rate and fuel price swaps is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
The Groups fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency forward currency contracts are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and liabilities.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Doubtful debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.
Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred up to the point when a franchise is awarded.
From this point in time, they are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Costs associated with the commencement of all new contracts other than rail franchises are expensed as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts.
In the consolidated balance sheet cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
63 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 2 Accounting policies continued Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the assets or liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a FIFO basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Insurance The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses.
To provide protection above these types of losses the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers.
The insurance provision is based on estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to the overall stop loss within the Groups insurance arrangements.
The majority of provisions will be utilised within six years, and the provision has been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature.
Full details are provided in note 35 including the departure from IAS 19 required for the Groups RPS obligations as outlined in the Statement of Compliance.
The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the total for each scheme of the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually by independent actuaries for financial reporting purposes, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating costs in the income statement.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The finance elements of the pension cost, comprising the expected return on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities, are also included in operating costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they arise.
Our TOCs participate in the RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK Rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the employee.
A liability is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit that the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
This represents a departure from IAS 19 so as to present fairly the Groups financial performance, position and cash flow in respect of its obligations for the RPS.
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Share-based payment In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, has been applied only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant by an external valuer using a stochastic model.
Non-market-based performance-related vesting conditions are not taken into account when estimating the fair value: instead those non-market conditions are taken into account in calculating the current best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and at each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated based on that estimate.
Market-based performance conditions are taken into account when determining the fair value.
The cumulative expense is calculated irrespective of whether or not the market conditions are satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.
Share capital, share premium and dividends Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders equity as Own shares until they are cancelled or reissued.
Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders equity.
Dividends are recorded as a liability in the period in which the liability to pay shareholders arises.
