106 National Express Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Notes to the Company Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate accounts of the parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
The accounts have been prepared under the historic cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available for sale investments detailed below, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Leases Leases of tangible fixed assets where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Company, are classified as finance leases and are capitalised in the balance sheet as plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the fair value of the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases of assets where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, or to the first review if shorter.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Plant and equipment 3 to 5 years The carrying value of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the profit and loss account during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments are held at historic cost less any provision for impairment.
Available for sale investments Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such, or that are not classified as a loan or receivable, held to maturity or at fair value through profit or loss.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Hedge accounting is adopted where derivatives such as fixed to floating interest rate swaps are held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings.
Under fair value hedge accounting, fixed interest rate borrowings are revalued at each balance sheet date by the change in fair value attributable to the interest rate being hedged.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where the Company expects a provision to be reimbursed the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when reimbursement is virtually certain.
Pensions The Company participates in both the National Express Group multi-employer funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
The Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the multi-employer scheme on a consistent and reasonable basis, and therefore has accounted for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme under the requirements of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits.
