Accounting policies a Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements between the regulatory businesses.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union, and Standard Special Condition A30 the condition of National Grid Gas plcs DN gas transporter licence issued These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are apportioned between regulatory under the Utilities Act 2000 the licence.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRSs and businesses using the following arbitrary bases: Interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2007 and in accordance with Corporate costs charged to National Grid Gas by National Grid are apportioned between the regulatory businesses using the same metrics as National Grid uses to determine the applicable United Kingdom law and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The 2006 comparative allocated charge to National Grid Gas.
These metrics take into account relative revenue, financial information has also been prepared on this basis, with the exception of certain standards, details of which are given below, for which comparative information has not been operating profit, employees and net assets of the regulatory businesses.
The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas Holdings plc is apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory values.
Net debt at 1 April 2005, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments from 1 April 2005 onwards, the date of cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, was apportioned between adoption of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure and IAS 39 Financial regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No amounts Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or to other activities.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined by separately adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the cash generated or used by each regulatory business, movements in fair These regulatory accounting statements are presented in pounds sterling.
value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding movements.
Other funding The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates movements in the year ended 31 March 2006 substantially comprise the movements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of arising from the sale of four DNs on 1 June 2005, which were apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative to net debt at 1 April 2005.
The adjustments to net debt at 1 contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
April 2005 as a consequence of adopting IAS 39 were apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative to net debt at 1 April 2005.
Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses according to the relative level of Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity net debt determined according to the principles set out above.
The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National Grid Current and deferred taxation are apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative Gas are attributed to the regulatory businesses reported in the regulatory accounting statements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity which are not directly to the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax computations for each regulatory business.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially relating to transactions which attributable to specific regulatory businesses have been apportioned between one or more occurred prior to 1 April 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at regulatory businesses according to whether they are related items or unrelated items.
The estimated capital allowances pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
Related items Current tax liabilities have been apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of National Grid Gas recovered is determined by balance.
which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, but where there is a Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year have been apportioned on the reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities between the basis of profits for the year.
Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings have regulatory businesses.
These items comprise activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory values.
centralised basis and shared services.
These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned between regulatory businesses in accordance with the activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
Unrelated items Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National Grid Gas which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, and where there is no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity 38 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 The total equity of National Grid Gas at 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are share premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was determined as a not retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
balancing item at that date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined by separately adjusting these initially allocated amounts by the equity movements derived for As set out in note n below, as permitted by IFRS 1, prior to 1 April 2005 National Grid Gas plc each regulatory business as a consequence of all other allocations, including transfer to adopted the prevailing UK GAAP for hedge accounting in its regulatory accounting statements the regulatory businesses of funds received by National Grid Gas from the sale of four and, consequently, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were DNs on 1 June 2005. translated at hedged rates instead of closing exchange rates.
Outer Met Area Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the A geographical area on the boundary of the East of England DN and the London DN, the Outer income statement.
Met Area, forms part of the London DN for managerial, operational and cost accounting On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing operations are translated at purposes.
For regulatory and income accounting purposes, the Outer Met Area is treated as part of the East of England DN.
Accordingly, the relevant operating costs, assets and liabilities exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated are reported in these regulatory accounting statements as part of the East of England DN.
at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the consolidation translation reserve.
Additions to the gas distribution network for the Outer Met Area are assessed by management based upon project information.
Other amounts for the Outer Met Area, comprising d Intangible assets other than goodwill transportation business operating costs, the overall balance of property, plant and equipment, Identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill are recorded at cost less accumulated other assets and related liabilities are deemed to be 9% of those amounts of London DN.
amortisation and any provision for impairment.
b Basis of consolidation Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is These regulatory accounting statements consolidate the financial information of the Company created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where no and its subsidiaries in respect of the regulatory businesses specified in the condition.
internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic useful lives.
The principal amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial statements of the Company and subsidiaries into line with Amortisation periods Years those used by the Company in its consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Inter-company Software 3 to 5 transactions are eliminated.
e Property, plant and equipment The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year and covered by the accounting Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost or deemed cost at the date of transition to requirements of the condition are included in the regulatory accounting statements from the IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year, or which otherwise cease to be covered by the accounting requirements of the condition, are included in Cost includes payroll costs and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the the regulatory accounting statements up to the effective date of disposal, or the date when construction of property, plant and equipment.
those accounting requirements cease to apply.
Property, plant and equipment include assets in which National Grid Gass interest comprises c Foreign currencies legally protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of National Grid Gas plc or the subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 39 Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, including capital expenditure g Taxation for safety and environmental assets, and extensions to, or enhancements to, or replacement of Current tax existing assets.
Current tax asset and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are included in used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the creditors as deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the profit and loss account balance sheet date.
over the estimated economic life of the assets to which they relate.
Deferred tax Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial Other property, plant and equipment, apart from certain meters, which are depreciated on a statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
sum-of-the-digits basis, are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates estimated to write off Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences and their book values over their estimated useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be economic lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any contractual available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other determined by operational requirements, the depreciation periods for the principal categories of than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the property, plant and equipment are, in general, as shown below: accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
Depreciation periods Years Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on investments Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary Plant and machinery: difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 future.
meters and metering equipments 5 to 18 Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been f Impairment of assets enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset to the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, and its recoverable amount, if lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
are independent from other assets, National Grid Gas estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which that asset belongs.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and estimated value to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
Unrecognised deferred tax in use at the date the impairment review is undertaken.
assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right exists to the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes adjusted.
levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle its current tax asset and liabilities on a net basis.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been impaired.
h Inventories Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, are stated at cost less provision Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, where material, are disclosed for damage and obsolescence.
Cost comprises acquisition cost and those costs that have been separately.
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
40 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised i Environmental costs cost, less any appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates or the original payment terms will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may changes in the expected timing of expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
The become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors unwinding of the discount is included within the income statement as a financing charge.
insolvency, and default or significant failure of payment.
Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest j Revenues rate method.
Interest income, together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables Revenue represent the sales value derived from the distribution of gas, the provision of gas are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income statement.
metering services, and the provision of other services to customers during the year, and excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
Other financial investments are initially measured at cost including transaction costs, but with Revenue includes an assessment of gas transportation services supplied to customers between effect from 1 April 2005, are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of investments classified at fair value through profit and loss are included in the income statement, the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
while changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this Where revenue received or receivable exceeds the maximum amount permitted by regulatory time, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or agreement and adjustments will be made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the over-recovery is not recognised.
Similarly, an asset is not recognised where a regulatory loss for the period.
Investment income on investments classified at fair value through profit and loss and on available-for-sale investments is recognised in the income statement as it accrues.
agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an under-recovery.
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at their initial fair value which normally k Pensions reflects the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and subsequently stated at amortised The substantial majority of National Grid Gas employees are members of the defined benefit cost, inclusive of accrued interest.
Any difference between the proceeds after direct issue costs section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the life of the borrowing.
stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National Grid Gas.
Accordingly National Grid Gas accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue scheme.
The pension charge for the year represents the contributions payable to the scheme costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
With effect from 1 April 2005, derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair A share of the assets and liabilities or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are not value, and are subsequently also measured at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivative recognised in these regulatory accounting statements.
financial instruments are included in the income statement to the extent hedge accounting is not applied.
l Leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value basis over the term of the relevant lease.
and which are quoted in active markets, are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by m Financial instruments using valuation techniques which refer to observable market data.
These include comparison Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, the contractual arrangements entered into.
option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the consolidated assets being assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially received, net of direct issue costs.
ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 41 If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss Purchases and sales of financial assets are usually recognised on the trade date, being the recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement immediately.
date of commitment to purchase or sell the assets.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts, are treated as n Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their Both derivative financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments are host contracts.
entered into in order to manage interest rate, and foreign currency exposures and commodity Prior to 1 April 2005 and the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39, derivatives used for hedging price risks in respect of expected energy usage.
The principal derivatives used include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts and purposes were not recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.
Monetary assets and interest rate swaptions.
liabilities in foreign currencies were retranslated at hedged rates instead of closing rates.
Exchange gains and losses relating to the hedge of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries were recorded directly in equity.
All derivative transactions are undertaken, or maintained, with a view to managing the interest, currency or commodity price risks associated with underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
o Share-based payments National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of National Grid From 1 April 2005, the accounting policy for hedge accounting is as described below.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments, based on an Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are designated and effective as estimate of shares that will eventually vest, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by National Grid ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in Gas to National Grid in respect of share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity in respect of cash flow hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in equity.
the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being p Business performance, exceptional items and remeasurements hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the initial measurement of that nonNational Grid Gass financial performance is analysed into two components: business monetary asset or liability.
performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures Changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are designated as hedges of the of business performance used by management to monitor financial performance, as they are changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the income considered to distort the comparability of our reported financial performance from year to year.
An offsetting amount is recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of the Business performance measures presented on the face of the income statement or in the notes hedged items, with a corresponding entry in the income statement, to the extent that the to the regulatory accounting statements include operating profit before exceptional items and adjustment to the carrying value is attributable to the risk being hedged and that the fair value remeasurements, profit before tax before exceptional items and remeasurements and profit for hedge is effective.
the year before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the in the income statement as they arise, within finance costs.
judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our financial performance between Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation as or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains or losses on subsequently recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in which the previously disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to recorded to the carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest method.
42 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 q Restructuring costs Environmental liabilities note 25.
Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Accounting Polices n Hedge Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy accounting and derivative financial instruments.
costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which an irrevocable commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan have been announced to affected employees.
r Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change in value.
s Equity The businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements do not have their own and separate share capital or reserves.
Accordingly, equity is reported only in total for each business.
t Dividends Dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
u Key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the Regulatory Accounting Statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional and the definition of adjusted earnings note 5.
The exemptions adopted under IFRS including, in particular, those relating to business combinations accounting policies note a Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies notes d intangible assets other than goodwill, e Property, plant and equipment and f Impairment of assets.
Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 17 and 18.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policies note j Revenues.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets accounting policies note g Taxation and note 14.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 43
