Notice of Meeting T TH HIIS S D DO OC CU UM ME EN NT T IIS S IIM MP PO OR RT TA AN NT T A AN ND D R RE EQ QU UIIR RE ES S Y YO OU UR R IIM MM ME ED DIIA AT TE E A AT TT TE EN NT TIIO ON N.. IIf f y yo ou u a ar re e iin n a an ny y d do ou ub bt t a as s t to o t th he e a ac ct tiio on n y yo ou u s sh ho ou ulld d t ta ak ke e, y yo ou u a ar re e r re ec co om mm me en nd fide ed d t to o s se ee ek k y yo ou ur r o ow wn n p pe er rs so on na all f fiin na an nc ciia all a ad dv viic ce e f fr ro om m y yo ou ur r s st to oc ck kb br ro ok ke er r, b ba an nk k m ma an na ag ge er r, s so olliic ciit to or r, a ac cc co ou un nt ta an nt t o or r o ot th he er r f fiin na an nc ciia all a ad dv viis so or r a au ut th ho or riis se ed d u un nd fide er r t th he e F Fiin na an nc ciia all S Se er rv viic ce es s a an nd d M Ma ar rk ke et ts s A Ac ct t 2 20 00 00 0.. IIf f y yo ou u h ha av five e s so olld d o or r o ot th he er rw wiis se e t tr ra an ns sf fe er rr re ed d a allll y yo ou ur r N NE EX XT T s sh ha ar re es s, p plle ea as se e s se en nd d t th hiis s d do oc cu um me en nt t, t to og ge et th he er r w wiit th h t th he e a ac cc co om mp pa an ny yiin ng g F Fo or rm m o of f P Pr ro ox xy y, a as s s so oo on n a as s p po os ss siib blle e t to o t th he e p pu ur rc ch ha as se er r o or r t tr ra an ns sf fe er re ee e, o or r t to o t th he e s st to oc ck kb br ro ok ke er r, b ba an nk k o or r o ot th he er r a ag ge en nt t t th hr ro ou ug gh h w wh ho om m t th he e s sa alle e o or r t tr ra an ns sf fe er r w wa as s e ef ff fe ec ct te ed d, f fo or r d fide elliiv five er ry y t to o t th he e p pu ur rc ch ha as se er r o or r t tr ra an ns sf fe er re ee e.. Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of NEXT plc will be held at the Belmont House Hotel, fide Montfort Street, Leicester LE1 7GR on Wednesday 16 May 2007 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 9 and 15 as Ordinary Resolutions and 10 to 14 as Special Resolutions.
O Or rd diin na ar ry y b bu us siin ne es ss s 1 1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the period ended 27 January 2007.
2 2 To approve the remuneration report for the period ended 27 January 2007.
3 3 To declare a final dividend of 33.5p per share in respect of the period ended 27 January 2007.
4 4 To re-elect David Keens as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
5 5 To re-elect Nick Brookes as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
6 6 To re-elect Derek Netherton as a director who has served on the Board for more than nine years and, in accordance with the Combined Code, is subject to annual re-election.
7 7 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 19 of the Annual Report.
S Sp pe ec ciia all b bu us siin ne es ss s To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 8, 9 and 15 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 10 to 14 as Special Resolutions.
8 8 N NE EX XT T R Riis sk k R Re ew wa ar rd d IIn nv five es st tm me en nt t P Plla an n That the NEXT Risk Reward Investment Plan the Plan, the main features of which are described in Appendix 1 on pages 77 to 78, be and is hereby approved and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to take any action they consider necessary to implement the Plan, such authority to expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008.
9 9 A Au ut th ho or riit ty y t to o a allllo ot t s sh ha ar re es s u un nd fide er r S Se ec ct tiio on n 8 80 0 C Co om mp pa an niie es s A Ac ct t 1 19 98 85 5 That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,400,000 such authority to expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008, save that: a the Company may make any offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority that would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after this authority has expired: and b all previous authorities to allot securities conferred by resolution of the Company pursuant to Section 80 of the Act or otherwise be and are hereby revoked to the extent that they have not been previously utilised.
7 74 4 Notice of Meeting 1 10 0 A Au ut th ho or riit ty y t to o a allllo ot t s sh ha ar re es s u un nd fide er r S Se ec ct tiio on n 9 95 5 C Co om mp pa an niie es s A Ac ct t 1 19 98 85 5 That the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 9 set out in the Notice of this Meeting for cash and sell relevant shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 162A of the Act for cash, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,100,000 being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at 20 March 2007 and shall expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
1 11 1 O On n- -m ma ar rk ke et t p pu ur rc ch ha as se e o of f o ow wn n s sh ha ar re es s That in accordance with Article 46 of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company be hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall: i be limited to the lesser of 34,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 12 below: ii the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: a 15 months after the date on which this resolution is passed, and b the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2008: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
7 75 5 Notice of Meeting 1 12 2 C Co on nt tiin ng ge en nt t c co on nt tr ra ac ct ts s a an nd d o of ff f- -m ma ar rk ke et t s sh ha ar re e p pu ur rc ch ha as se es s That, for the purposes of Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are hereby approved and the Company be and is hereby authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any contingent forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the contingent off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each for cancellation, as more fully described in Appendix 2 on pages 78 to 80 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of 15 months after the date on which this resolution is passed and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2008, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any contingent forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 11 above.
1 13 3 D fide elle et tiio on n o of f A Ar rt tiic clle e 1 10 01 1 w wh hiic ch h r re eq qu uiir re es s d diir re ec ct to or rs s t to o r re et tiir re e w wh he en n t th he ey y r re ea ac ch h t th he e a ag ge e 7 70 0 That with effect from the passing of this resolution the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by the deletion of existing Article 101 and that the remaining Articles be renumbered accordingly.
1 14 4 C Ch ha an ng ge es s t to o t th he e A Ar rt tiic clle es s t to o f fa ac ciilliit ta at te e c co om mm mu un niic ca at tiio on ns s w wiit th h s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s u us siin ng g e elle ec ct tr ro on niic c m me ea an ns s That with effect from the passing of this resolution the Articles of Association of the Company are amended as follows: by deleting Articles 49, 130, 131 and 136 and replacing them with new Articles as contained in Appendix 3 on pages 80 to 82. by making consequential changes to Articles 1 Interpretation, 41 Disclosure of Interests, 72, 73, 76,100 and 133 as set out in the document produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purpose of identification.
1 15 5 A Au ut th ho or riit ty y t to o c co om mm mu un niic ca at te e w wiit th h s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s u us siin ng g e elle ec ct tr ro on niic c m me ea an ns s That the Company be authorised to send all documents, notices and information by electronic means as such term is defined in the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules including by means of a website and in all electronic forms.
A A J J R R M Mc cK Kiin nlla ay y, S Se ec cr re et ta ar ry y R Re eg giis st te er re ed d O Of ff fiic ce e D fide es sf fo or rd d R Ro oa ad d, E En nd fide er rb by y L Le eiic ce es st te er r, L LE E1 19 9 4 4A AT T 1 11 1 A Ap pr riill 2 20 00 07 7 7 76 6 Notice of Meeting A AP PP PE EN ND DIIX X 1 1 F FU UR RT TH HE ER R IIN NF FO OR RM MA AT TIIO ON N O ON N R RE ES SO OL LU UT TIIO ON N 8 8:: N NE EX XT T R RIIS SK K R RE EW WA AR RD D IIN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T P PL LA AN N t th he e P Plla an n Shareholders approval is sought for the Company to offer its key executives an opportunity to participate in a risk reward investment plan.
Similar plans were implemented in July 2004 and July 2005, details of which are on page 26 of the Remuneration Report.
Under UKLA Listing Rules, the continued employment condition imposed on participants determines that the Plan is regarded as a long term incentive plan and, as such, requires prior shareholder approval.
The principal features of the Plan are unchanged from the plans that shareholders approved at an EGM in July 2005 and at the 2006 Annual General Meeting AGM and are summarised below.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the executive directors and senior executives approximately 25 that may participate in the Plan, all of whom would be regarded as important to the future of NEXT.
The Plan requires these participants to make a personal investment in a financial contract out of their own resources.
It is proposed that NEXT will make special contributions to the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust the ESOT, which will make investments in financial contracts with similar potential returns.
These investments would be held on revocable trusts for those executives who have made a personal investment.
On maturity, any returns accruing to the ESOT would only be distributed either in NEXT shares and or cash to those participants who have remained with NEXT save to the extent described below.
This continued employment condition would therefore incentivise the participant to remain with NEXT and commit to its future development.
The investments are derivative instruments that require NEXTs share price to grow substantially.
The ESOT investments will be in the form of listed warrants purchased directly from Goldman Sachs International, BNP Paribas Arbitrage Issuance BV or Barclays Bank plc.
Participants personal investment contracts will be structured as a bet with an independent third party regulated by the FSA which may also purchase warrants to hedge its risk under those contracts.
The minimum and maximum share price targets, as well as the potential returns on maturity, will be materially the same for both the ESOTs and the participants investments.
The pricing of the warrants and participants personal investment contracts will be determined at the time of their issue and will be primarily dependent on NEXTs prevailing share price and future dividend expectations.
Participants will lose their investment in full if NEXTs share price does not reach the minimum level.
As with previous plans, the Remuneration Committee believes that targets for the 2007 investments will be extremely challenging for the retail industry in the current economic environment.
Participants will be required to invest and risk their own funds and will lose their total investment at all share prices up to the Minimum Share Price 20.50 in 2005, when the average share price was less than 15.00, whereas Shareholders will continue to benefit from any share price increase up to and beyond the Minimum Share Price.
By contrast, most LTIP arrangements are of a nil cost nature and lack personal financial commitment by executives.
It is proposed that the total cost to NEXT of the Plan in 2007 will be limited to a maximum of 2 million, inclusive of any employers national insurance liabilities and corporation tax reliefs available to the Company.
If the amount invested by the Company prior to the Companys AGM in 2008 is less than 2 million then no additional investments may be made and this authority will lapse at that time.
It is important to note that any returns in excess of these costs will be paid for by the counterparties to the contracts and will not be subsidised, supported or underwritten by NEXT in any way.
Each participant will be limited to an amount that, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, represents a significant, but not excessive, investment of personal funds.
In addition, the potential contribution by NEXT to fund investments made by the ESOT will be limited to a maximum of three times the personal investment of each participant.
The benefits provided by NEXT under the Plan will not be pensionable.
In the event that a participant leaves the Companys employment before the maturity of the investment contracts other than in good leaver circumstances such as redundancy, disability or death, any entitlement to a return on investments held by the ESOT will be forfeited in full.
In good leaver circumstances, any entitlement will be restricted pro-rata to the time the participant was employed by NEXT during the investment period.
Any excess returns received by the ESOT which would have otherwise accrued to departing executives will be retained in the trust and used, at the discretion of the trustee, to provide benefits for other employees of the NEXT group.
7 77 7 Notice of Meeting Based on a share price of 21.00 and current market conditions, a target price range as for the 2007 investments would be approximately 26.00 to 31.50.
The investment of up to 2 million in the Plan by the Company should be viewed in the context of the required growth in shareholder value.
On this basis, unless a Final Share Price of 26.00 is achieved in the four year investment period, representing an increase in shareholder value of at least 1.1 billion, the executives would lose all of their investments.
If the Final Share Price reaches 31.50, the increase in shareholder value would be around 2.4 billion, whilst executives would receive the maximum return of approximately 11 times their personal investment.
Against a share price of around 21.00 and market capitalisation of 4.8 billion, the Board believes that, in conjunction with LTIP incentives, implementation of the Plan in 2007 will help maintain management focus on the long term creation of shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee will have a general power to amend the terms of the Plan.
However, changes to: the persons participating in the Plan: the maximum amount that NEXT may contribute in total to the ESOT: the maximum NEXT contribution to the ESOT in relation to each participants personal investment: the basis for determining, and the terms of, a participants entitlements under the Plan: and the basis of adjustments to a participants entitlements under the Plan in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital.
will not be made to the advantage of any participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change of legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, or regulatory treatment to participants or the Company or any member of the NEXT group.
Authority to implement the Plan will expire at the 2008 AGM.
A AP PP PE EN ND DIIX X 2 2 F FU UR RT TH HE ER R IIN NF FO OR RM MA AT TIIO ON N O ON N R RE ES SO OL LU UT TIIO ON N 1 12 2:: C CO ON NT TIIN NG GE EN NT T P PU UR RC CH HA AS SE E C CO ON NT TR RA AC CT TS S By virtue of special resolution number 12 passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 17 May 2006 shareholder authority was given to the Company to make on-market purchases of shares for cancellation.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 36 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2007 or 17 August 2007.
At the same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be entered into with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 6 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2007 or 17 August 2007.
Since the granting of those authorities, the Company has bought back 16,960,235 shares for cancellation, representing 6.9% of its issued share capital at 28 January 2006, at a total cost 281.6 million.
Of these purchases, 4,075,000 shares have been bought pursuant to contingent purchase contracts at a total cost of 66.5 million, a discount of 3.1 million to share prices prevailing when the relevant contract was entered into.
Under Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the Directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and the January year end up to the announcement of full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
7 78 8 Notice of Meeting In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility in its share purchase activities, and reducing the cost of share buybacks, is for the Company to enter into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2006 AGM, the Company entered into agreements with the above banks the Existing Agreements and the Company intends to terminate the Existing Agreements and enter into new agreements.
The Company proposes to enter into an agreement with each of four banks the Programme Agreements, under which it may although it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
Under the terms of each CFT, the Company may purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 50,000 shares per week.
Details of each CFT will be announced to shareholders on the day it is entered into by the Company.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys share price not reaching a level set at the time that contract is entered into the Suspension Level.
The Suspension Level is determined by the Company and must be between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price as at the start of the CFT.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a Contingent Forward Trade the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of a share.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Level is not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If the Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
In such circumstances, a reduced number of shares would be purchased by the Company for cancellation under that contract.
Under the provisions of Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 12, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays plc the Bank s. A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM on 16 May 2007.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT or at the offices of the Companys legal advisers, Eversheds, Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4JL during usual business hours until the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the AGM to be held in 2008 or 15 months after the date on which the resolution is passed and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between a CFT being effected and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 10 million, representing 4.4% of its issued share capital at 27 January 2007: the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 200 million including costs : the Forward Price may not exceed 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Companys shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and only one Contingent Forward Trade will be entered into on any particular day.
7 79 9 Notice of Meeting Subject to the limits set out above, the Company will select the Suspension Level and the duration of each CFT, and the Forward Price will be determined by the relevant Bank.
Shares purchased via the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 16 May 2007 for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2008 or on 16 August 2008, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 20 March 2007 was 9,140,181.
This represents 4.0% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 20 March 2007 would represent 4.7% of the reduced issued share capital.
A AP PP PE EN ND DIIX X 3 3 F FIIN NA AL L T TE EX XT T O OF F A AR RT TIIC CL LE ES S A AM ME EN ND fide ED D T TO O F FA AC CIIL LIIT TA AT TE E C CO OM MM MU UN NIIC CA AT TIIO ON NS S W WIIT TH H S SH HA AR RE EH HO OL LD fide ER RS S U US SIIN NG G E EL LE EC CT TR RO ON NIIC C M ME EA AN NS S A Ar rt tiic clle e 4 49 9 1 Subject to the provisions of the Statutes, an annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting called for the passing of a special resolution shall be called by at least twenty-one clear days notice, and all other extraordinary general meetings shall be called by at least fourteen clear days notice.
Notice of every general meeting shall be given in the manner referred to in this Article 49.
The notice shall specify the place, the day and the time of meeting and the general nature of the business to be transacted, and in the case of an annual general meeting shall specify the meeting as such.
Subject to the provisions of these Articles and to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, notices shall be given to all members, to all persons entitled to a share in consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a member and to the directors and auditors of the Company.
2 For the purposes of this Article 49 a notice of meeting must be given in accordance with the 2006 Act, that is in hard copy form, electronic form or by means of a website.
3 Electronic Communication a If notice of meeting is sent in electronic form the Company must have complied with all applicable regulatory requirements and the person entitled to receive such notice must have agreed that the notice can be sent to him in that way and not revoked that agreement or, in the case of a company, be deemed to have agreed to receive notice in that way by a provision in the Statutes.
b The notice must be sent to the address specified by the person entitled to receive such notice or in the case of notice sent to a company, an address which is deemed to have been specified by any provision of the Statutes.
4 Notice of a meeting on a website Provided that the Company has complied with all applicable regulatory requirements the Company may send or supply a notice of meeting by making it available on a website and where the Company intends to make that notice of meeting available on a website, the Company must: a comply with the provisions of Article 131: 8 80 0 Notice of Meeting b notify persons entitled to receive such notice that the notice of meeting has been published on the website, such notification to state that it concerns a notice of meeting, to specify the place, date and time of the meeting and whether the meeting will be an Annual General Meeting: and c the notice must be available on the website throughout the period beginning with the date of notification and ending with the conclusion of the meeting.
A Ar rt tiic clle e 1 13 30 0 The Company may send any document or notice to a member either personally or by sending it by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to the member at his registered address or by leaving it at that address or by sending it in electronic form to an address for the time being notified by the member to the Company for that purpose or by making them available on a website.
A Ar rt tiic clle e 1 13 31 1 1 Documents sent in electronic form by the Company Subject to any requirement of the Statutes and provided that the Company has complied with all applicable regulatory requirements, the Company may send any documents or notices to its members in electronic form and such documents or notices will be validly sent provided that: a the member has agreed either generally or in respect of a specific matter or in the case of a company is deemed to have agreed by a provision in the 2006 Act that documents or notices can be sent in electronic form : b the documents are documents to which the agreement applies: and c copies of the documents are sent in electronic form to the address notified by the member to the Company for that purpose.
2 Documents communicated by website a Subject to any requirement of the 2006 Act and provided that the Company has complied with all applicable regulatory requirements, the Company may send any documents or notices to its members by means of a website and any such documents or notices will be validly sent provided that: i the member has expressly agreed generally or specifically that documents or notices may be sent by means of a website to him or he has been asked individually to agree that documents and notices can be sent by means of a website and the Company has received no response to that request within 28 days from the date on which the request was sent: ii the documents are documents to which the agreement applies: and iii the member is notified of the presence of the documents on the website, the address of the website, the place on the website where the documents may be accessed and how they may be accessed.
b Documents must be available on the website for a period of not less than 28 days from the date of notification unless the Statutes makes provision for any other time period.
c If the documents are published on the website for a part only of the period of time referred to in Article 131 2 b, they will be treated as being published throughout the period if the failure to publish throughout that period is wholly attributable to circumstances which it would not be reasonable to have expected the Company to prevent or avoid.
8 81 1 Notice of Meeting 3 Right to hard copies Where the Company sends documents to members otherwise than in hard copy form, any member can require the Company to send him a hard copy version and the Company must do so free of charge and within 21 days of the date of the members request.
4 Documents sent to the Company a Where the Statutes permit documents to be sent to the Company, only such documents as are specified by the Company may be sent to the Company in electronic form to the address specified by the Company for that purpose.
b If the document in electronic form is sent by hand or by post, it must be sent to the Companys office.
c A document sent to the Company in electronic form is sufficiently authenticated if the identity of the sender is confirmed in the way the Company has specified.
In the case of joint holders of a share, all notices shall be given to the joint holder whose name stands first in the register of members in respect of the joint holding and notice so given shall be sufficient notice to all the joint holders.
A member whose registered address is not within the United Kingdom shall not be entitled to receive any notice from the Company unless he gives to the Company an address not being an address for the purposes of electronic communications within the United Kingdom at which notices may be given to him.
Where the Statutes or these Articles require agreement of a member to electronic means of communication or website communication, the holder who is named first in the Register may give agreement on behalf of both joint holders.
A At tt te en nd da an nc ce e a an nd d v vo ot tiin ng g All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him, and a proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please sign and return it so as to reach the Companys registrars at least 48 hours before the meeting.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 14 May 2007 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm on 14 May 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
All special business resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who submit a proxy form, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 12 on contingent share purchase contracts, the Companies Act 1985 provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the special resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if he had not done so.
Therefore, NEXT intends to disregard the poll votes which have been cast in favour of resolution 12 attaching to 10 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
8 82 2 Notice of Meeting E Elle ec ct tr ro on niic c p pr ro ox xy y a ap pp po oiin nt tm me en nt t t th hr ro ou ug gh h C CR RE ES ST T CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 16 May 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
D Do oc cu um me en nt ts s a av va aiilla ab blle e f fo or r iin ns sp pe ec ct tiio on n The register of the transactions if any of each director and of their family interests in the shares of the Company, copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors, the Companys existing memorandum and articles of association and a copy of the Companys articles of association marked to show the amendments proposed to be made pursuant to resolution 13 and 14 are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and will be available for fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
