Directors Report and Business Review H He ea allt th h a an nd d s sa af fe et ty y NEXT recognises the importance of health and safety at work and its management is designed to contribute to improving business performance.
Practical measures, such as risk assessment, are undertaken to ensure that the Groups activities and products do not harm customers, employees, contractors, sites or equipment.
Procedures are in place to enable effective two way communication and consultation about health, safety and welfare issues in order to achieve a high level of safety awareness.
E En nv viir ro on nm me en nt t The improvement of waste stream management has continued to be a priority for NEXT during the year.
A process to reverse haul cardboard and plastic from its stores to distribution centres for recycling commenced during the year.
As a result, stores and warehouses recycled over 13,760 tonnes of cardboard 2006: 13,644 tonnes and over 1,964 tonnes of polythene 2006: 1,304 tonnes.
NEXT will continue to strive for further improvements in this area, and in the recycling of other waste streams, in the year ahead.
NEXT continues to seek ways to reduce product packaging and has entered into a voluntary code of practice in conjunction with DEFRA and other retailers to reduce the environmental impact of the Groups carrier bags.
The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive was adopted in January 2007 and will become law in the UK during 2007.
NEXT made changes in Eire following the implementation of the Directive there in August 2005 and is well positioned for its introduction in the UK.
NEXT continues to work with The Carbon Trust to review opportunities for energy efficiency in its stores, warehouses and offices throughout the business: from 2007 an energy efficient lighting scheme has been introduced into new stores.
C Co om mm mu un niit ty y During the year the Group made charitable donations of 383,000 2006: 350,000.
No donations were made for political purposes.
NEXT has a well established charities and sponsorship programme which invested 619,000 2006: 588,000 during the year in a variety of community projects, including donations to charity and community organisations as well as sponsorship of sports and fashion organisations.
Fundraising events raised an additional 28,000 and NEXT supports a range of charities through product donations, sales of Christmas cards and employees giving time to good causes.
Following the Indian Ocean tsunami in December 2004, the Group established a charitable trust to co-ordinate the distribution of over 790,000 of funds raised and donated by the Group and its directors, employees, associated companies and suppliers.
The construction of a 146 home village in Sri Lanka with central social facilities is now almost completed, with 120 houses now occupied by displaced families.
All monies contributed in respect of the tsunami disaster were in addition to existing commitments and did not reduce the funds available to the Groups existing corporate charity and sponsorship programme.
A AN NN NU UA AL L G GE EN NE ER RA AL L M ME EE ET TIIN NG G & & O OT TH HE ER R M MA AT TT TE ER RS S D Diiv viid fide en nd ds s The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 33.5p per share be paid on 2 July 2007 to shareholders on the register of members on 25 May 2007.
The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on shares held by the ESOT, see Note 29.
S Sh ha ar re e c ca ap piit ta all a an nd d m ma ajjo or r s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s The Company was authorised by its shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares for cancellation.
During the year the Company purchased a total of 19,046,199 ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation at a cost of 316.3m, representing 7.7% of its issued share capital.
The authority to purchase shares is renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting to renew the authority.
On 27 January 2007 the Company had 227,053,930 shares in issue.
As at 20 March 2007, there had been no subsequent changes to the Companys issued share capital.
1 14 4 Directors Report and Business Review As at 20 March 2007 the following notifications had been received from holders of material interests in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
of 10p ordinary shares % FMR Corp. 19,349,860 8.52 Barclays plc 10,878,678 4.79 Lloyds TSB Group 10,344,950 4.56 Massachusetts Financial Services Co. 8,594,045 3.79 Legal & General 8,480,461 3.73 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s The current Board is shown on page 19 of this report.
Mr Keens and Mr Brookes will retire by rotation.
Mr Netherton has now been a member of the Board for ten years and, in line with the Combined Code, is subject to annual re-election.
All are eligible and willing to be reappointed.
The Board has formally reviewed the performance of all three directors and concluded they remain effective and are committed to their respective roles at NEXT.
Mr Nethertons length of service was considered in conjunction with the principles of the Revised Combined Code.
The directors were satisfied that Mr Netherton remained independent in both character and judgement.
Furthermore, the Board concluded his retailing experience with Greggs Plc and other business interests continue to enable him to maintain an independent, critical and relevant stance of the Groups retailing and other business operations and in his role as chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board further concluded there were no other factors or circumstances which were likely to affect his continued independence.
The Board is in the process of recruiting a new non-executive director who will have recent and relevant financial experience andbe a member of the Audit Committee.
It is intended that Mr Netherton will stand down from that committee after a suitable period to ensure continuity and transfer of knowledge.
The interests of the directors who held office at 27 January 2007 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
A Au ud diit to or rs s Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
D Diis sc cllo os su ur re e o of f iin nf fo or rm ma at tiio on n t to o a au ud diit to or rs s In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is on pages 74 to 83 and includes the following business: R Riis sk k R Re ew wa ar rd d iin nv five es st tm me en nt t p plla an n The Company first implemented its innovative Risk Reward investment plan in July 2004 the 2004 Plan.
The retail sector was highly competitive and NEXTs staff were frequently targeted by its rivals for recruitment.
The Remuneration Committee considered that NEXT offered competitive base salaries, annual bonuses and an appropriate long term incentive plan compared to most publicly listed retailers.
However, unlike private companies, publicly listed companies such as NEXT were unable to offer key executives the opportunity to invest in their equity with the prospect of a leveraged capital profit.
The 2004 Plan was introduced by NEXT to address this issue and assist in the retention and recruitment of its key executives.
1 15 5 Directors Report and Business Review A revised structure was approved by shareholders in July 2005 the 2005 Plan which included enhanced retention features.
Both the 2004 and 2005 Plans assist in retaining and rewarding NEXTs key executives who have consistently delivered above average total shareholder return.
Both plans require that NEXTs share price meet demanding thresholds before any return is achieved and details of the 2005 Plan are given on page 26 of the Remuneration Report.
Over the five years to January 2007, the management team has achieved total shareholder return of 141%, including share price growth of 105%.
During this period, earnings per share have increased by 151%, dividends have grown by 78% and 1,192 million has been returned to shareholders through the Companys share buyback programme.
Approval for a further plan was given by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee did not consider it appropriate to implement a new plan during the last year and is unlikely to do so every year.
Nevertheless, the retail sector remains extremely competitive and NEXTs rivals continue to target its key staff.
Accordingly, resolution 8 will be proposed to approve a further plan the 2007 Plan, thereby retaining the Companys flexibility to offer a similar incentive to its key executives and attract new talent to the management team.
The structure of the 2007 Plan would be the same as the 2005 Plan and would cost the Company a maximum of 2 million to implement.
The principal features of the 2007 Plan are summarised in Appendix 1 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
R Re en ne ew wa all o of f a au ut th ho or riit ty y t to o a allllo ot t s sh ha ar re es s Ordinary resolution 9 will renew the Directors authority pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot shares.
The nominal value of ordinary shares which the Directors may allot pursuant to this authority in the period up to the date of the 2008 Annual General Meeting is limited to 7,400,000, being approximately 33% of the total ordinary share capital in issue at 20 March 2007, none of which are held in treasury.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority.
Special resolution 10 will renew the Directors authority pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to issue ordinary shares wholly for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the Directors to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital in conformity with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
This authority also allows the Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2008 and do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the Institutional Investment Committees.
O On n- -m ma ar rk ke et t p pu ur rc ch ha as se e o of f o ow wn n s sh ha ar re es s Special resolution 11 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 34,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to special resolution 12: Contingent contracts and offmarket share purchases, see below: b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than 5% over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of 15 months after the date on which the resolution is passed or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2008.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 50 pence per 100 or part thereof of the consideration paid by the Company.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
1 16 6 Directors Report and Business Review The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 20 March 2007 was 9,140,181.
This represents 4.0% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 20 March 2007 would represent 4.7% of the reduced issued share capital.
The Directors intend that this authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to be in the interest of shareholders generally.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel the shares purchased under this authority.
C Co on nt tiin ng ge en nt t c co on nt tr ra ac ct ts s a an nd d o of ff f- -m ma ar rk ke et t s sh ha ar re e p pu ur rc ch ha as se es s The Directors consider that share buybacks are an important means of returning value to shareholders and maximising long term sustainable growth in earnings per share.
Contingent contracts for off-market share purchases offer a number of additional benefits compared to on-market share purchases: Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
Since their first use in December 2004, up to 20 March 2007, a total of 10,700,000 ordinary shares has been bought back for cancellation under such contracts for 167m, at a discount of 6m or 3.6% compared to market prices prevailing when the relevant contract commenced.
Low share liquidity often prevents the Company from purchasing a large number of shares on a single day without affecting the prevailing market price.
Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase blocks of shares over a period of time without distorting the prevailing share price.
This purchase method is also cash flow advantageous insofar as it defers the cash outflow of any related buybacks.
Contingent contracts enhance flexibility in the Companys buyback activity when trading volumes are low or would otherwise be restricted from buying on-market, e. g. during close periods.
The Company has previously entered into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during close periods.
By entering into contingent contracts prior to any close period, the Company is also allowed to purchase shares off-market during these periods.
Competitive tendering involving up to four banks is used which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The tender pricing mechanism ensures that the Company retains the benefit of forecast dividends, as well as any dividends declared, on share purchase commitments covered by contingent contracts.
The Directors would use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate financial gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The Directors would only purchase shares for cancellation using such contracts if it were earnings enhancing and in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Special resolution 12 will give the Company authority to enter into further contingent purchase contracts with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc under which shares may be purchased off-market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The total number of shares which the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 10,000,000 and would not exceed a total cost of 200 million.
The principal features of the contracts are set out in Appendix 2 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of each contract will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of the Companys legal advisers, Eversheds, Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4JL, during normal working hours up to the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
C Ch ha an ng ge e t to o A Ar rt tiic clle es s o of f A As ss so oc ciia at tiio on n a an nd d e elle ec ct tr ro on niic c c co om mm mu un niic ca at tiio on ns s Special resolution 13 proposes the removal of Article 101 requiring directors to retire on reaching the age of seventy, which is no longer a requirement for public limited companies under the Companies Act 2006.
This amendment will also reduce the scope for future claims against the Company under new age discrimination legislation in the United Kingdom.
1 17 7 Directors Report and Business Review Special resolution 14 proposes various changes to align the Companys Articles of Association with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which govern electronic communications with shareholders.
Ordinary resolution 15 authorises the Company to communicate electronically with shareholders under these revised powers.
The proposed changes and authority will allow the Company, with prior consent from individual shareholders, to distribute documents and information, such as annual reports and general meeting notices, via its web site or through other electronic media.
The Directors intend to use these powers only where it is cost efficient to do so.
A copy of the proposed amended Articles of Association that reflect the above changes will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT during usual business hours up until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
R Re ec co om mm me en nd da at tiio on n Your Directors are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions.
By order of the Board A A J J R R M Mc cK Kiin nlla ay y S Se ec cr re et ta ar ry y 2 22 2 M Ma ar rc ch h 2 20 00 07 7 1 18 8
