Shareholder Information Company website Shareholder enquiries A full copy of this Annual Report and Accounts, together with that The Companys share register is maintained by Lloyds TSB for prior years and other information, can be found on the NEXT Registrars.
Please contact them if you have any enquiries about plc website at www.
co. uk your NEXT plc shareholding including the following matters: Financial diary change of name and address.
The recommended final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 2 July 2007 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 25 May loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or tax voucher.
The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend from 23 May 2007. if you receive duplicate sets of company mailings as a result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if The trading results of the Group are normally announced as appropriate, to combine accounts.
follows: The Shareview Portfolio service from our registrars, Lloyds TSB Interim results September Registrars, gives you more online information about your NEXT plc shares and other investments.
Final results March For direct access to information held for you on the share register Annual General Meeting including recent balance movements and a daily valuation of The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on investments held in your portfolio visit www.
co. uk Wednesday 16 May 2007 at the Belmont House Hotel, fide Montfort Street, Leicester, LE1 7GR.
The notice of the meeting on For shareholders with disabilities Lloyds TSB Registrars provide pages 74 to 83 sets out business to be transacted.
Please detach the following: the attendance card from the form of proxy and bring it to the meeting.
Presentation of this card will show that you have the right if requested future communications produced by them will to attend, speak and vote.
Full access is available to the venue for be sent in the appropriate format.
textphone number 0870 600 3950 for shareholders with Proxy card hearing difficulties.
The proxy card is enclosed for you to detach, complete and send to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
It must be received by 11.00 a. m. on hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting 14 May 2007. shareholders.
Share price data Payments of dividends to mandated accounts 2007 2006 Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid Share price at 27 January 1946p 1698p directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax voucher Market capitalisation 4,418m 4,179m or is available from Lloyds TSB Registrars, telephone 0870 600 Share price movement during year: 3970.
High mid-market quotation 1961p 1734p Discount voucher Low mid-market quotation 1600p 1268p The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, registered shareholder holding 500 or more ordinary shares as at CREST 1 April each year.
The voucher entitles the recipient or their The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic immediate family to a 25% discount against most purchases at settlement.
any one time of full price merchandise in NEXT Retail stores.
The voucher has no monetary purchase limit and expires on 31 Registrars and transfer office October of the same year.
Shareholders holding shares in nominee Lloyds TSB Registrars or PEP ISA accounts are also eligible, but must request the The Causeway voucher through their nominee or PEP ISA account manager.
Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA This Report has been printed on recycled paper.
