Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements the the auditors responsibilities set out in their report, is made with a company and the group have used appropriate accounting policies, view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of consistently applied and supported by reasonable and accounting the directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors are The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the also responsible for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation statements for the group in accordance with International Financial of a directors report and directors remuneration report which Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company law requires the directors comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The 2007 financial statements will be published on the companys website in addition to the paper version.
The directors are responsible International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements for the maintenance and integrity of this electronic version of the present fairly for each financial period, the companys financial financial statements to the same extent as for the paper version.
position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
The directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
52 Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements Northern Foods plc
