Independent auditors report Company financial statements To the members of Northern Foods plc We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects We have audited the individual company financial statements the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules which comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company cash flow of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
statement, the Company statement of recognised income and We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements expense, the Company statement of changes in equity and the on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion related notes 39 to 58.
These individual company financial on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set or its risk and control procedures.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is We have reported separately on the group financial statements consistent with the audited individual company financial statements.
of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit do not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Basis of audit opinion report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to the amounts and disclosures in the individual company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors Directors remuneration report and the individual company financial in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, statements in accordance with applicable law and International and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the individual company financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in order statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance described as having been audited in accordance with relevant legal that the individual company financial statements and the part of the and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing Directors remuneration report described as having been audited are UK and Ireland.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual company overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the company financial statements.
individual company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have Opinion been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Report of the directors the individual company financial statements give a true and fair is consistent with the individual company financial statements.
view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has 1985, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the individual company financial statements and the part of the the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Directors remuneration report described as having been audited information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and have been properly prepared in accordance with the and other transactions is not disclosed.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Report of the directors is consistent We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not with the individual company financial statements.
complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase Leeds and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
30 May 2007 Northern Foods plc Independent auditors report Company financial statements 83
