NOTICE OF ANNUAL NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING GENERAL MEETING 7879 THIS NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you have any The Directors of the Company consider that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, interests of its shareholders as a whole and they recommend that you vote in favour of them.
bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
By Order of the Board If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your Ordinary shares in Northgate plc, please send this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the D. Henderson sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Secretary 2 July 2007 Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and ninth Annual General Meeting of Northgate plc will be held Registered Office: at Norflex House, Allington Way, Darlington at 11.30 am on 26 September 2007 for the following purposes: Norflex House 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2007.
To declare a final dividend of 15.5p per Ordinary share.
To approve the Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 April 2007 set out on pages 16 to 21 of the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company.
Only the holders of Ordinary shares registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 24 September 5.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
2007 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at 6.
To re-elect Mr J Astrand as a Director.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the right of 7.
To re-elect Mr P Rogerson as a Director.
any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As special business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which are to be proposed as Special Resolutions: 2.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy so appointed need not also be a member.
A three-way proxy card for this purpose is enclosed.
That the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 80 of the Act by a resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 8 September 2004 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors, by way of rights to holders of Ordinary shares and such other equity securities of the Company as the Directors may determine on the register on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective holdings of such securities or in accordance with the rights attached thereto but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements that would otherwise arise or with legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise howsoever : b the allotment of equity securities in connection with any employees share scheme approved by the members in general meeting: and c the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a and b above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 175,000.
And shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008 or, if earlier, fifteen months after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as defined in Section 163, Companies Act 1985 of its Ordinary shares of 5p each provided that: a the Company does not purchase under this authority more than 7,000,000 Ordinary shares: b the Company does not pay less than 5p for each share: c the Company does not pay more for each share than 5% over the average of the middle market price of the Ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may agree before the aforesaid authority terminates to purchase Ordinary shares where the purchase will or may be executed either wholly or in part after the authority terminates.
The Company may complete such a purchase even though the authority has terminated.
That the Regulations contained in the document submitted to the Meeting marked A and signed by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purposes of identification be and the same are hereby adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company to the exclusion of and in substitution for all existing Articles of Association of the Company.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
