Please select one of the following options: Option 1: Receive paper I wish to continue to receive documents in hard copy, i. e. paper form sent to my registered address.
Please tick this box and return this form to FREEPOST RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, Capita Registrars, Shareholder Administration Support, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 9ZA Option 2: E-mail notification I wish to receive notifications to my e-mail address whenever documents or information are made available on the website.
Please complete in block capitals Alternatively, you can register by logging onto www.
com Option 3: Website If you no longer require hard copy documents you dont need to take any further action.
Instead you will be able to view any of the Companys shareholder documents, such as Annual Reports, notices of meetings, voting cards, circulars etc.
You will be notified in writing by the Company whenever shareholder documents are available on the website.
Please note that if you do not return this form or register online before 28 September 2007 you will be treated as having selected Option 3 above.
As such, hard copies of shareholder documents or information will not be sent directly to you, but instead will be available for you to view following their publication on the Companys website www.
Please refer to the letter entitled Shareholder Communications and the explanatory notes for Resolution 10 on page 80 of the 2007 Report and Accounts for information about the changes to communications between the Company and its shareholders under the Companies Act 2006.
If you elect for Option 2 by registering your e-mail address at the website above or for Option 3, you do not need to return this form.
Notwithstanding any election for Options 2 or 3, the Company may at its sole and absolute discretion, send any notification, document or information to shareholders in paper form.
You can change your instructions at any time by writing to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or by e-mailing: ssd@capitaregistrars.
