ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 8081 EXPLANATORY NOTES ON PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Companies Act 2006 We are proposing changes to our Articles of Association to reflect those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into effect in January and April 2007.
In summary, these changes are to: permit the Company to communicate with its shareholders electronically: replace the references to section 212 of the Companies Act 1985 with section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the Company's powers to investigate its' shareholder register: and reflect the removal from company legislation of an upper age limit of 70 years for directors.
The principal changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006 earlier this year relate to electronic communications with shareholders.
The new Articles of Association will permit the Company to use electronic communications for all notices, documents and information to be sent to shareholders, in accordance with individual preference.
The Companies Act 2006 allows the Company to use website communication with its shareholders as the default position.
The Company will be able to ask each individual shareholder for their consent to receive communications from the Company via its website.
If the shareholder does not respond to the request for consent within 28 days, the Company will be entitled to take that as consent to receive communications in this way.
However, when the Company places a document on its website, it must notify each shareholder who has agreed to receive documents via the website that the document has been made available on its website.
A shareholder who has received a document electronically can ask for a hard copy of the document at any time and shareholders may also revoke their consent to receive electronic communications at any time.
This new regime, while continuing to ensure that shareholders are able to receive communications and documents in hard copy if that is their preference, will enable the Company to take advantage of the efficiencies and cost savings inherent in electronic communications to a greater extent than is currently possible.
In addition, with effect from 1 October 2007, the Companies Act 2006 will reduce the statutory notice periods for general meetings.
Except for annual general meetings which will continue to require 21 days' notice, all other general meetings may be held on 14 days' notice irrespective of whether or not a special resolution is to be proposed at the relevant meeting.
We are proposing to amend our Articles of Association to reflect this relaxation in the law.
The Government has announced that it intends to bring into force the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in various stages in October 2007, April 2008 and October 2008.
It is anticipated that shareholders may be asked to approve further changes to our Articles of Association during the course of the next two annual general meetings as may be necessary.
Directors' indemnities Since our present Articles of Association were adopted in 2004, the Companies Act 1985 has been amended to provide for a relaxation of the prohibition against the granting of directors' indemnities.
Under the old law, subject to certain exceptions, provisions in the articles of association of a company or in any contract with a company were void if they sought to exempt a director, the company secretary or its auditors from liability, or indemnify such an officer or auditor against any such liability, for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust.
The exceptions to this prohibition are i purchasing insurance for an officer or auditor: ii indemnifying an officer or auditor against any liability incurred in defending civil or criminal proceedings in which judgment is given in his favour or he is acquitted: and iii indemnifying an officer or auditor against the costs of successfully procuring an order from the court excusing a director from liability for negligence, default or breach of duty or trust where he has acted honestly and reasonably, and in all the circumstances ought fairly to be excused.
The changes to the Companies Act 1985 mean that i companies will not be permitted to indemnify a director of another company in its group if the indemnity would be unlawful if it was given by the company of which the individual is a director: ii the restrictions only apply to directors and not to officers: iii in the case of liabilities arising from actions brought by third parties, both the costs of the director and of the third party and any damages may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the company even if the judgment goes against the director: iv in the case of liabilities owing to the company, the company will not be able to indemnify a director against damages awarded to the company itself but may pay directors' defence costs as they are incurred although a director would be liable to repay his defence costs if his defence was to be unsuccessful : v companies will not be permitted to indemnify directors against criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against directors: and vi indemnities permitted by the new provisions must be disclosed in the directors' report in the annual accounts and made available for inspection at the company's registered office.
It is proposed that our Articles of Association be amended to reflect this change in company law.
The proposed amendment is a permissive power that tracks the wording of the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and allows the Company to indemnify its directors subject to those provisions.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Registered office: Norflex House, Allington Way, Darlington DL1 4DY Telephone: 01325 467558 Fax: 01325 363204 www.
com Designed by The Roundhouse 0191 222 1144 July 2007 SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Companies Act 2006 recognises the growing importance of electronic communications and contains provisions permitting their use to a greater extent than was previously possible.
The Act allows companies to provide documents and communications required to be sent to shareholders such as the Annual Report and Accounts via their website except to those who have requested a hard, i. e. paper, copy.
The Board is seeking approval at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting to take full advantage of these provisions.
Therefore subject to the passing of resolution 10, it is the Boards intention that in the future it will, except where shareholders have requested otherwise, provide, as far as possible, all documents or information via the Companys website at www.
com Shareholders receiving communications via the Companys website will be notified either by post or, where they have provided an e-mail address, electronically whenever the relevant document or information has been made available on the website.
Therefore if you wish to continue receiving the Companys shareholder information, such as the Annual Report and Accounts and notices of annual and other general meetings, in hard copy please complete option 1 on the enclosed shareholder communications election form.
This form should be returned to the following FREEPOST address by no later than 28 September 2007: FREEPOST RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, Capita Registrars, Shareholder Administration Support, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 9ZA.
If you do not return your form by this date then you will be deemed to have consented to receive such information via the Companys website and you will be notified by a letter sent by post whenever the relevant document or information is made available on the website.
If however, you would prefer to be notified electronically, you should complete option 2 on the enclosed election form and we will send you an e-mail notifying you whenever the relevant document or information is made available on the Company's website.
Should you subsequently wish to change your election or receive documents or information in hard copy form you can do so at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU or alternatively at: www.
com Notwithstanding any election the Company may, at its sole and absolute discretion, send any notification, document or information to shareholders in hard copy form.
Yours sincerely D Henderson Group Secretary
