CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 3637 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2007 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2007 2007 2006 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Notes 000 000 Amounts attributable to equity holders of the parent Company Northgate plc is a Company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 77.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 5 and in the Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of net assets of subsidiary undertakings 33 1,756 1,303 Operational and Financial reviews on pages 6 to 11.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of interest in associate 413 Foreign exchange difference on revaluation reserve 11 The financial statements are presented in UK Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment Net foreign exchange differences on long term borrowings held as hedges 33 1,425 1,571 in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
Other foreign exchange differences recognised directly in equity 33 628 Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 32 4,471 2,956 At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following relevant Standards and Interpretations, which have Share options fair value amount charged credited directly to equity 75 20 not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 39 445 356 Net current tax credit recognised directly in equity 11 1,084 IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures Net deferred tax charge credit recognised directly in equity 26 2,616 882 IFRS 8 Operating segments IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Amendment on capital disclosures Net income recognised directly in equity 3,595 4,359 IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment Profit attributable to equity holders 54,483 40,594 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and treasury share transactions Total recognised income and expense for the year 58,078 44,953 The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact Dividends paid 12 16,949 13,437 Issue of Ordinary share capital net of expenses 27, 28, 31 2,254 65,525 on the financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the Net increase in own shares held 30 1,241 860 relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Net changes in total equity 42,142 96,181 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Opening total equity as at 1 May 320,289 224,108 Statement of compliance Closing total equity as at 30 April 362,431 320,289 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and their interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Basis of preparation The financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain land and buildings and the treatment of certain financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or COMPANY STATEMENT indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its undertakings made up to 30 April 2006 and 30 OF CHANGES IN EQUITY April 2007.
The results of a new subsidiary undertaking are included from the date of its acquisition.
Where an entity has ceased to be a subsidiary undertaking during the year, its results are included to the date of cessation.
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2007 On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary undertaking are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on 2007 2006 Notes 000 000 acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently any losses applicable to the Amounts attributable to equity holders of the parent Company minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of investments in subsidiary undertakings 33 4,344 646 Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiary undertakings to bring the accounting Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of interest in associate 33 413 policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Net foreign exchange differences on long term borrowings held eliminated on consolidation.
as hedges 33 4,344 1,059 Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 32 3,450 2,554 Revenue recognition Share options fair value amount charged credited directly to equity 75 20 Group revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable in respect of the hire of vehicles Net current tax credit recognised directly in equity 1,084 and the supply of related goods and services in the normal course of business, net of value added tax and discounts.
Net deferred tax charge credit recognised directly in equity 26 2,055 882 Revenue from vehicle rentals is recognised evenly over the rental period and revenue from sales of other related goods Net income recognised directly in equity 2,404 3,456 and services is recognised at the point of sale.
Profit attributable to equity holders 36 11,241 41,059 Goodwill Total recognised income and expense for the year 13,645 44,515 All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on Dividends paid 12 16,949 13,437 acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and interests in associates and is the difference between the cost of the acquisition Issue of Ordinary share capital net of expenses 27, 28, 31 2,254 65,525 and the fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Net changes in total equity 1,050 96,603 Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses identified through an annual test for impairment.
Opening total equity as at 1 May 228,534 131,931 Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts Closing total equity as at 30 April 227,484 228,534 subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 3839 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2007 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2007 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Intangible assets arising on business combinations Taxation Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income are as follows: statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes Customer relationships 5 to 13 years items that are never taxable or deductible.
Brand names 5 to 10 years Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and Non-compete agreements 2 to 4 years liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted Intangible assets other for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from Software assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which do not exceed three years.
goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost of assets to residual values on a straight-line basis over the assets useful longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
estimated lives as follows: Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, Freehold buildings 50 years and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Leasehold buildings 50 years or over the life of the lease, whichever is shorter probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Plant, equipment and fittings 3 to 10 years Vehicles for hire 3 to 6 years Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset Motor vehicles 3 to 6 years is realised.
Vehicles for hire are depreciated on a straight-line basis using depreciation rates that reflect economic lives of between Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited three and six years.
These depreciation rates have been determined with the anticipation that the net book values at the directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
point the vehicles are transferred into non-current assets held for sale is in line with the open market values for those vehicles.
Financial instruments and hedge accounting Depreciation charges are adjusted for any differences that arise between net book values and open market values of used Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual vehicles upon transfer into non-current assets held for sale, taking into account the further direct costs to sell the vehicles.
Property under construction is not depreciated.
Depreciation commences when these assets are ready for their intended use.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value less any appropriate provision for irrecoverable Freehold land is not depreciated.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to the income statement.
On the subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from property, the attributable revaluation surplus remaining in the revaluation reserve is transferred directly to retained earnings.
operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
Any gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised Non-current assets held for sale immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of resultant Non-current assets classified as held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less estimated costs to sell.
gain or loss depends on the nature of the items being hedged.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a disposal transaction.
The fair value of interest rate derivatives is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the Fixed asset investments derivative at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether are recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount Hedge accounting for cash flow hedges is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in a pro rata basis.
equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement as a net profit or loss for the period.
Inventories Inventories comprise spare parts and consumables and are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Net Bank loans and issue costs realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Bank loans are stated at the amount of proceeds after deduction of issue costs, which are amortised over the period of the loan.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for in the income statement on an accrual basis and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
