49 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2007 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Northgate Information Solutions plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2007 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in an associate company to 31 July 2006.
The financial statements were approved by the Directors and authorised for issue on 4 July 2007.
Statement of compliance The Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 82 to 90.
Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand and have been prepared under the historic cost convention except for the following assets and liabilities that are stated at fair value: derivative financial instruments.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods.
In these accounts, the following new standards have been adopted for the first time: Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS4 in relation to financial guarantees IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 6 Liabilities from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS2 Share Based Payment IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives The adoption of these standards has not had a material impact on these accounts.
Prior year adjustment Following the discovery of an unrecognised liability, a review has taken place of the accounting in respect of the Sx3 acquisition which occurred in the year ended 30 April 2005 and, as a result, prior year adjustments have been made to recognise certain assets and liabilities that had not been recognised when the acquisition was originally accounted for.
The prior year adjustment has affected the Groups balance sheet as at 1 May 2005 and 30 April 2006 although the results for the comparative period have not been affected.
Details of these prior year adjustments are set out in note 13.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries or where the Company has significant influence its associate made up to 30 April each year.
There are no joint ventures.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Significant influence is where the Company is able to influence the financial and operating policies but is not able to govern them.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the parent, except where there is a binding obligation to fund those losses and the minority is in a position to do so.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the accounts of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies in line with those used by the Group.
