80 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Provisions m At 1 April 2006 Current 0.3 Non-current 3.1 3.4 Utilised 0.3 At 31 March 2007 3.1 Analysed as: Current 0.2 Non-current 2.9 3.1 The provision represents outstanding discretionary pension liabilities.
The discretionary pension liabilities have been calculated by an independent actuary and are expected to be paid over the remaining lives, which is approximately ten years.
Financial instruments a Group strategy The level of capital expenditure which the Group is obliged to incur is such that it cannot be wholly financed by internally generated sources.
As a result, the Group must rely upon raising additional finance on a regular basis, to be principally used to fund the long term assets required in its regulated business.
The Groups strategy is to finance such investment by raising medium to long term debt, to provide a balance sheet match with long term assets and to fix a major proportion of interest rates.
b Treasury operations The main purpose of the Groups treasury function is to assess the Groups ongoing capital requirement and to raise funding on a timely basis, taking advantage of any favourable market opportunities.
It also invests any surplus funds the Group may have, based upon its forecast requirements and in accordance with the Groups treasury policy.
On occasions, derivatives are used as part of this process but the Groups policies prohibit their use for speculation.
c Risks arising from the Groups financial instruments The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
All treasury activities are conducted in accordance with these policies.
d Liquidity risk As regards day to day liquidity, the Groups policy is to have available standby committed bank borrowing facilities with a value of no less than 50.0 million and with a bank agreement availability period of no less than three months.
At 31 March 2007, the Group had 75.0 million available in standby committed bank facilities 2006: 275.0 million.
e Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
It borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest and, accordingly, uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile and to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The Groups policy is to keep a minimum 60% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
At 31 March 2007, 65% 2006: 80% of the Groups borrowings were at fixed rates of interest.
Index linked borrowings are treated as variable rate debt.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS
