56 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as it applies to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007 and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Groups financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 5 June 2007 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Derek Wanless Chairman and John Cuthbert Managing Director.
Northumbrian Water Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the period are included from the date of their acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the period are included to the date of their disposal.
Inter segment sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
Where, for commercial reasons, the accounting reference date of a subsidiary is a date other than that of the Company, management accounts made up to the Companys accounting reference date have been used.
In accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, the financial statements of two companies are consolidated as special purpose entities, with effect from 12 May 2004, the date of the transaction which utilised these entities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities into line with those used by the Group under IFRS.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
c Associates and jointly controlled entities Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities in the Group financial statements are accounted for using the equity method of accounting where the Group exercises significant influence over the associate.
Significant influence is generally presumed to exist where the Groups effective ownership is 20% or more.
The Groups share of the post tax profits less losses of associates and jointly controlled entities is included in the consolidated income statement and the carrying value in the balance sheet comprises the Groups share of their net assets liabilities less distributions received and any impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and jointly controlled entities, representing the excess of the cost of investment compared to the Groups share of net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate and is not amortised.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities and associates are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group: to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made to the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities and associates.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The Group has 0.2 million of goodwill at 1 April 2004.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 31 March 2004.
Goodwill relating to acquisitions since 1 April 2004 is not amortised.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS
