83 Notes to the Company Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2007 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the accounts.
Basis of preparation The separate accounts of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by that Act, the separate accounts statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and on the historical cost basis.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 and has not presented its own cash flow statement.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
In these financial statements UITF Abstract 41 Scope of FRS 20 has been adopted for the first time.
The accounting policies under this new abstract are set out below together with an indication of the effects of their adoption.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group.
Investments Investments in subsidiary and associate undertakings are stated at cost unless, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been impairment to their value in which case they are immediately written down to their estimated recoverable amount.
Financial instruments Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value which is the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, thereafter at amortised cost.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised on the Companys balance sheet at fair value.
Other than the fair value of financial instruments on transition to FRS 26, the Company has not applied hedge accounting and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Own-shares held by ESOP Trust Transactions of the Company-sponsored ESOP Trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected in the Company accounts.
In particular, the Trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Foreign exchange Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date.
Translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Dividends Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
