94 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Report of the Auditors on the Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of and the part of the Directors remuneration report to Northumbrian Water Group plc be audited have been properly prepared in accordance We have audited the parent Company financial with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the whether in our opinion the information given in the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the balance Directors report and business review is consistent with sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
These parent the financial statements.
Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the have also audited the information in the Directors Company has not kept proper accounting records, remuneration report that is described as having if we have not received all the information and been audited.
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration We have reported separately on the Group financial and other transactions is not disclosed.
statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as audited parent Company financial statements.
The a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies other information comprises only NWG at a glance, Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that Highlights, the Chairmans statement, the Directors we might state to the Companys members those matters report and business review, Appendix to the directors we are required to state to them in an auditors report report and business review, Board directors biographies, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted the Corporate governance report, the unaudited part of by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Directors remuneration report and Shareholder anyone other than the Company and the Companys information.
We consider the implications for our report members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or for the opinions we have formed.
or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to any other information.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Basis of audit opinion parent Company financial statements in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance with International applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be statements and the part of the Directors remuneration audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and estimates and judgments made by the directors in the regulatory requirements and International Standards on preparation of the parent Company financial statements, Auditing UK and Ireland.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent adequately disclosed.
Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 95 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors report and business review is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Newcastle upon Tyne 5 June 2007 CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS
