56 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as it applies to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007 and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Groups financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 5 June 2007 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Derek Wanless Chairman and John Cuthbert Managing Director.
Northumbrian Water Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the period are included from the date of their acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the period are included to the date of their disposal.
Inter segment sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
Where, for commercial reasons, the accounting reference date of a subsidiary is a date other than that of the Company, management accounts made up to the Companys accounting reference date have been used.
In accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, the financial statements of two companies are consolidated as special purpose entities, with effect from 12 May 2004, the date of the transaction which utilised these entities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under relevant local GAAP in the individual financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities into line with those used by the Group under IFRS.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
c Associates and jointly controlled entities Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities in the Group financial statements are accounted for using the equity method of accounting where the Group exercises significant influence over the associate.
Significant influence is generally presumed to exist where the Groups effective ownership is 20% or more.
The Groups share of the post tax profits less losses of associates and jointly controlled entities is included in the consolidated income statement and the carrying value in the balance sheet comprises the Groups share of their net assets liabilities less distributions received and any impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and jointly controlled entities, representing the excess of the cost of investment compared to the Groups share of net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate and is not amortised.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities and associates are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group: to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made to the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities and associates.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The Group has 0.2 million of goodwill at 1 April 2004.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 31 March 2004.
Goodwill relating to acquisitions since 1 April 2004 is not amortised.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 57 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 by management at statutory company level.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
e Intangible assets other than goodwill Other intangible fixed assets represent the right to receive income under the operating agreement with the Environment Agency in respect of the Kielder Water transfer scheme.
The value of this intangible asset has been assessed with reference to the net monies raised in accordance with the Kielder securitisation on 12 May 2004.
The term of the operating agreement is in perpetuity and accordingly no amortisation is provided.
The value of this intangible is assessed for impairment on an annual basis, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated, the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed and the correlation between development costs and future revenues has been established.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Property, plant and equipment, including assets in the course of construction, comprise infrastructure assets being mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, sludge pipelines and sea outfalls and other assets including properties, overground plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Borrowing costs attributed to assets under construction are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are depreciated evenly over their estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows: freehold buildings, 30-60 years: short leasehold land and buildings, 25 years or lease term if shorter: operational structures, plant and machinery, 4-92 years: infrastructure assets 13-200 years see below, fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment, 4-10 years.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
Infrastructure assets In the regulated water services business, infrastructure assets comprise a network of systems being mains and sewers, reservoirs, dams and sea outfalls.
Infrastructure assets were measured at a date prior to transition to IFRS 23 May 2003 at their fair value, which was adopted as deemed historical cost on transition to IFRS.
The assets and liabilities were measured at fair value as a result of the acquisition on 23 May 2003.
Expenditure on infrastructure assets which enhances the asset base is treated as fixed asset additions whilst maintenance expenditure which does not enhance the asset base is charged as an operating cost.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 58 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Infrastructure assets are depreciated evenly to their estimated residual values over their estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows: Dams and impounding reservoirs 150 years Water mains 100 years Sea outfalls 60 years Sewers 200 years Dedicated pipelines 4-20 years g Financial assets Financial assets comprise loans to third parties, recoverable in more than one year and include cash held on long term deposit as a guaranteed investment contract relating to the Kielder securitisation.
These assets are recognised at cost and are measured annually based on the ability of the borrower to repay.
Any impairment is taken to the income statement in the period in which it arises.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
h Foreign currencies and foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The functional and presentational currency of Northumbrian Water Group plc is United Kingdom sterling.
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial period and the results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average rate of exchange for the period.
Differences on exchange arising from the re-translation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies and jointly controlled entities, and from the translation of the results of those companies at average rate, are taken to equity.
All other foreign exchange differences are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates are not cash flows.
However, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held or due in a foreign currency is reported in the cash flow statement in order to reconcile cash and cash equivalents at the beginning and the end of the period.
This amount is presented separately from cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities and includes the differences, if any, had those cash flows been reported at end of period exchange rates.
i Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs, as well as an element of overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present locations and condition.
j Revenues Provision of services Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the fair value of the income receivable in the ordinary course of business for services provided.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is not recognised until the services have been provided to the customer.
Revenue for services relates to the year, excluding any amounts paid in advance.
Revenue for measured water and waste water charges includes amounts billed plus an estimation of the amounts unbilled at the year end.
The accrual is estimated using a defined methodology based upon daily average water consumption, which is calculated based upon historical billing information.
Long term contracts revenue included in results for discontinued operations is recognised to reflect the proportion of the work carried out at the year end, by recording revenue as contract activity progresses.
Revenues derived from variations on contracts are recognised only when they have been accepted by the customer.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 59 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Interest Revenue is recognised as the interest accrues, taking into account the effective yield of the asset.
Dividends Revenue is recognised when the shareholders right to receive the revenue is established.
k Grants and contributions Grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
Revenue grants are credited to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Capital grants and contributions relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and amortised to the income statement over the expected useful economic lives of the related assets.
l Leases Where assets are financed by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Rentals or leasing payments are treated as consisting of a capital element and finance charges, the capital element reducing the outstanding liability and the finance charges being charged to the income statement over the period of the leasing contract at a constant rate on the reducing outstanding liability.
Rentals under operating leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
m Pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined benefit scheme The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit scheme is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
Actuarial gains and losses on experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the SORIE.
Defined contribution scheme The Group also operates a defined contribution scheme.
Obligations for contributions to the scheme are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
n Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using the Monte-Carlo simulation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 60 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired, managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
o Taxes Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid, to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in jointly controlled entities, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in jointly controlled entities, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items accounted for in equity.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 61 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax except: where the value added tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the value added tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of value added tax included.
The net amount of value added tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
p Derivative financial instruments The Group utilises interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward exchange contracts as derivative financial instruments.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Interest rate swap agreements are used to manage interest rate exposures.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Under IAS 39, derivative financial instruments are always measured at fair value, with hedge accounting employed in respect of those derivatives fulfilling the stringent requirements for hedge accounting as prescribed under IAS 39.
In summary, these criteria relate to initial designation and documentation of the hedge relationship, prospective testing of the relationship to demonstrate the expectation that the hedge will be highly effective throughout its life, and subsequent retrospective testing of the hedge to verify effectiveness.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Hedging transactions undertaken by the Company are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in currency cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges, which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount of a hedged interest-bearing financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and loss such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge firm currency commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 62 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for special hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
q Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Finance costs including issue costs are taken to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance charges amortised and reduced by payments made in respect of the accounting period.
Loans and borrowings acquired at acquisition are restated to fair value.
The adjustment arising on acquisition is amortised to the income statement on the basis of the maturity profile of each instrument.
Realised gains and losses that occur from the early termination of loans and borrowings are taken to the income statement in that period.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Net debt is the sum of all current and non-current liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, financial investments and loans receivable.
r Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the investments are fide-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
s Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with a remaining maturity of up to ten months or less, which are held for the purpose of meeting short term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
Cash equivalents are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
t Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
Invoices for unmeasured water and waste water charges are due on fixed dates: other receivables generally have 30 day payment terms.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Trade and other receivables do not carry any interest.
u Investments Investments are initially recorded at the fair value of the consideration given and including the acquisition charges associated with the investment.
v Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
w Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 63 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement unless the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
x fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the income statement.
y Accounting standards During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Effective date IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 8: Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital disclosures 1 January 2007 International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC Effective date IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 IFRIC 9: Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 IFRIC 10: Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006 IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12: Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to.
More specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail.
There will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
z Key assumptions The directors consider that the key assumptions applied at the balance sheet date, which may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are those assumptions used in arriving at the pension asset liability under IAS 19.
These key assumptions and their possible impact are disclosed in note 26, Pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS
