92 Financial Calendar 26 September 2007 Latest date for receipt of proxy instructions in respect of the 2007 Annual General Meeting 27 September 2007 Annual General Meeting 31 October 2007 Half-year-end December 2007 Half-year results announced 30 April 2008 Financial year-end Investor Information REGISTRAR Enquiries about the following administrative matters relating to the holding of Northgate Information Solutions plc shares should be addressed to the Companys registrars at Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH, telephone 0870 702 0000: loss of share certificates dividend warrants tax vouchers notification of change of address transfer of shares to another person AMALGAMATION OF ACCOUNTS Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings as a result of having more than one shareholder account in their name should write to Computershare Investor Services plc at the above address to have their accounts amalgamated.
ON-LINE FACILITIES FOR SHAREHOLDERS The Companys Annual and Interim Reports and copies of recent shareholder communications can be accessed on-line at www.
com Shareholders who have registered for on-line access with Computershare Investor Services plc can make on-line enquiries about their shareholdings, submit forms of proxy for shareholder meetings and advise the Company of changes in personal details via the Electronic Communications link on our website or by visiting the Computershare website on www.
Shareholders can also elect to receive communications such as the Report and Accounts in electronic rather than paper form.
There are a number of advantages in opting to receive shareholder information in this format, including: speedier delivery of documents: documents can be read and downloaded at shareholders convenience: confirmation of transmission of proxy forms: improved security procedures for verifying proxy forms: potential cost savings for the Company and saving of environmental resources.
NORTHGATE AND CREST Northgates listed securities can be held in CREST accounts which do not require share certificates.
This may make it quicker and easier for some shareholders to settle stock market transactions.
Shareholders who deal infrequently may, however, prefer to continue to hold their shares in certificated form and the Company will continue to offer this facility for the time being.
NORTHGATES SHARE PRICE The Companys share price is available on the Companys website: www.
com in our investors section.
COMPARATIVE STATEMENTS In this report, the Company makes certain statements with respect to its market position or its products or brands market position.
These statements are based on independent sources.
These statements are accurate to the best of the knowledge and belief of the Company.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC Designed and produced by Design Plus Management Limited R&A cover-globe.
qxd 25 7 07 10:25 am Page 2 About Northgate Information Solutions Northgate Information Solutions, a market leader in providing software, outsourcing and information technology IT services to the human resources, local government, education and public safety markets in the UK.
Following its acquisition of a controlling stake in ARINSO, the international HR services group has become a world-leading human resources servicing and outsourcing provider.
Listed on the London Stock Exchange, Northgate currently employs nearly 6,000 staff and has approximately 3,500 large medium customers and approximately 7,000 small to medium enterprise SME customers across the UK and Ireland.
Northgate works closely with many corporate organisations as well as approximately 90% of the UKs local authorities and all of the UKs regional police forces.
Northgate operates in 27 countries across 5 continents and is a member of the FTSE 250.
This document is printed with bio-degradable soya inks on Revive 50:50 Silk, a certified FSC mixed sources grade stock, containing 50% recovered waste and 50% virgin fibre, from well managed forests, controlled sources and recycled wood or fibre.
The Halstan Printing Group has been awarded ISO 14001:2004 in recognition of its Environmental Management Systems.
