ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS continued Other assets destroyed in the incident have been impaired in full.
Insurance proceeds have been recognised to the extent they can be reliably measured and are recognised as other operating income.
Where customers business was interrupted, full provision for service credits and compensation has been made.
Insurance proceeds have been recognised where such payments are virtually certain to be recovered under the insurance policy and are shown as other operating income.
Discussions are still taking place with the insurers concerning the actual compensation due.
Pensions Details of the principal actuarial assumptions used in calculating the recognised liability for the defined benefit plan are given in note 20.
Changes to the discount rate, mortality rates and actual return on plan assets may necessitate material adjustments to this liability in the future.
Provisions Note 21 to the accounts contains information about the assumptions made concerning the Groups provisions.
Goodwill The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that its intangible assets may be impaired.
In undertaking such an impairment review, estimates are required in determining an assets recoverable amount.
These estimates include the assets future cash flows and the appropriate discount rate to reflect the time value of money.
POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENT Since the period-end, we have also announced the acquisition of ARINSO, a leading independent global provider of SAP-based HR services and solutions.
On 2 May 2007, Northgate announced that it had entered into an agreement with the majority shareholder to acquire, subject to shareholder approval, a 60.43% interest in ARINSO for 18.75 in cash and 5 new Northgate shares for each ARINSO share.
At an EGM held on 15 June 2007, shareholders formally approved the acquisition which enabled Northgate to take a controlling interest and then subsequently launch a mandatory public offer to acquire the remaining shares in ARINSO.
This offer process is expected to close by September 2007.
In June 2007, a new 500m bank facility was secured, providing the Group with approximately 100m of headroom going forwards.
As part of drawing down this facility, the Group has put in place interest-hedging instruments to manage exposure to movements in interest rates over the next three years.
Over the next year, this covers around 85% of the available facility.
Further information required by IFRS3 Business Combinations will be given in the 2007 8 Financial Statements.
