97 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The accounting policies have been reviewed in accordance with the requirements of FRS 18.
The directors consider the following accounting policies to be relevant in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The Companys financial statements are included in the consolidated financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc.
Accordingly, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from publishing a profit and loss account and cash flow statement and from disclosing related party transactions with its subsidiaries.
The Company is also exempt from disclosing the information otherwise required by paragraphs 51 to 93 of FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, as the consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure.
b Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at their purchase cost, less any provision for impairment.
c Taxation Corporation tax is based on the profit for the year as adjusted for taxation purposes using the rates of tax enacted at the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for deferred tax in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in future periods.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
As permitted by FRS 19, the Company has adopted a policy of discounting deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
The discount rates used reflect the post-tax yields to maturity that can be obtained at the balance sheet date on UK Government bonds with similar maturity dates to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
d Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Finance costs including issue costs are taken to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance charges amortised and reduced by payments made in respect of the accounting period.
Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2007 was 84,000 2006: 80,000.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual financial statements of the Company because Group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Profit attributable to members of the parent Company The profit dealt with in the financial statements of the parent Company is 56.9 million 2006: 71.0 million.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS
