CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS The Groups principal accounting policies are set out in note 2 to these financial statements.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement and make use of estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believes require the most critical accounting judgements are: Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material and non-recurring by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the Group.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional items.
Landfill restoration and aftercare Restoration and aftercare provisions are recognised in the financial statements at the net present value of the future expenditure required to settle the Groups restoration and aftercare obligations.
The discount implicit in recognising the restoration and aftercare liability is unwound over the life of the provision and is included in the income statement as a financial item within interest payable.
Where a provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset is recognised and depreciated in accordance with the Groups depreciation policy.
Joint ventures The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting as this reflects the contractual and control arrangements with the joint venture partners.
Borrowing costs The Group capitalises borrowing costs which are material and directly attributable to the construction of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be prepared for their intended use.
Currently only the assets under construction in the Lakeside Energy from Waste joint venture meet the criteria for capitalisation.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit schemes plus a defined contribution section.
Actuarial valuations of the defined benefit schemes are carried out as determined by the trustees at intervals of not more than three years.
The pension cost under IAS 19 is assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary based on the latest actuarial valuation and assumptions determined by the actuary.
The assumptions are based on information supplied to the actuary by the Company, supplemented by discussions between the actuary and management.
The principal assumptions used to measure schemes liabilities, sensitivities to changes in these assumptions and future funding obligations are disclosed in note 28 of the financial statements.
Cash-generating units For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The waste management segment is considered to be a single cash-generating unit as it is an integrated business.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS continued Areas which management believes requires the most critical accounting estimations are: Landfill costs The estimation of landfill reserves is of particular importance in assessing landfill costs, since the cost of a landfill site is depreciated over its estimated operational life taking into account the usage of void space and gas production at the site post closure.
The Groups estimates of landfill reserves are regularly reviewed and updated during the financial year for usage and other events for example site extensions.
Estimates are also subject to physical review by external advisors.
A number of factors impact on the value of landfill reserves, including the available landfill space, future capital expenditure and operating costs.
The valuation is subject to revision as these factors change.
Carrying value of long-life assets The Groups accounting policy for property, plant and equipment is set out in note 2 to these financial statements.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment as at 31 March 2007 was 2,559.4 million.
In the year ended 31 March 2007 additions to tangible fixed assets totalled 245.1 million and the depreciation charge was 115.2 million.
Estimated useful economic lives are based on managements judgement and experience.
When management identifies that actual useful lives differ materially from the estimates used to calculate depreciation, that charge is adjusted prospectively.
Due to the significance of capital investment to the Group, variations between actual and estimated useful lives could impact operating results both positively and negatively.
Historically, only minor changes to estimated useful lives have been required.
Revenue recognition The Group recognises revenue generally at the time of delivery.
Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are recorded as deferred revenue.
In South West Waters case, the Group raises bills and recognises revenue in accordance with its entitlement to receive revenue in line with the limits established by the Periodic Review price setting process.
For water and waste water customers with water meters, income recognised is dependent upon the volume supplied including an estimate of the sales value of units supplied between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Estimated usage is based on historic data, judgement and assumptions: actual results could differ from these estimates which would result in operating revenue being adjusted in the period that the revision to the estimates is determined.
Provision for doubtful debts At each balance sheet date, each subsidiary evaluates the collectability of trade receivables and records provisions for doubtful debts based on experience including, for example, comparisons of the relative age of accounts and consideration of actual write-off history.
The actual level of debt collected may differ from the estimated levels of recovery, which could impact operating results positively or negatively.
As at 31 March 2007 current trade receivables were 118.0 million.
Impairment of intangible assets The Group records all assets and liabilities acquired in business acquisitions, including goodwill, at fair value.
Intangible assets which have an indefinite useful life, principally goodwill, are assessed annually for impairment.
The initial goodwill recorded and subsequent impairment analysis require management to make estimations of future cash flows, terminal values and an assessment of the long-term pre-tax discount rate to be applied to those cash flows to reflect an assessment of the cost of capital of the cash-generating unit.
