GENERAL INFORMATION Pennon Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 32.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors report on pages 2 to 31.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 June 2007.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
a Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments, and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
A summary of the main accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
At the date of approval of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue, but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on capital disclosures.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives.
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions.
The Directors expect that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments will be made when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 April 2007.
The presentational impact of IFRIC 12 is being assessed.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best assessment of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
b Adoption of IFRS The Groups date of transition to IFRS was 1 April 2004.
The Companys date of transition to IFRS was 1 April 2005 and all comparative information for the Company in these financial statements has been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS, except where otherwise required or permitted by IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
