33-96 2-colour 14 June 14 6 07 12:40 Page 55 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups treasury function seeks to ensure that sufficient funding is available to meet foreseeable needs, maintains reasonable headroom for contingencies and manages interest rate risk.
Treasury operations are managed in accordance with policies established by the Board.
Major transactions are individually approved by the Board.
Treasury activities are reported to the Board and are subject to review by internal audit.
Financial instruments are used to raise finance and to manage risk.
The Group does not engage in speculative activity.
The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to interest rate and counterparty risk.
i Interest rate risk The Group has both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities.
The Group has a policy of maintaining at least 50% of interest bearing liabilities at fixed rates.
The Group uses a combination of fixed rate and index-linked borrowings and fixed rate interest swaps as cash flow hedges of future variable interest payments to achieve this policy.
At the year end 66% of net borrowings were at fixed rates and 9% index-linked.
The notional principal amounts of the interest rate swaps are used to determine settlement under those swaps and are not, therefore, an exposure for the Group.
These instruments are analysed in more detail in note 26. ii Counterparty risk management Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments.
The Board has agreed a policy for managing such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, counterparty approvals, and rigorous monitoring procedures.
The Group has no other significant concentration of credit risk.
Surplus funds of the Group are usually placed in short-term fixed interest deposits or the overnight money markets.
All deposits are with counterparties that have a credit rating threshold approved by the Board.
iii Liquidity risk The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and short-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has significant available funds for operations and planned expansions and facilities equivalent to at least one years forecast requirements are maintained at all times.
Details of undrawn committed facilities and short-term uncommitted facilities are provided in note 26. iv Refinancing risk management Refinancing risk is managed under the Group policy so that no more than 20% of Group net borrowings is permitted to mature in any financial year.
