GENERAL INFORMATION Pennon Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 32.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors report on pages 2 to 31.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 June 2007.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
a Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments, and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
A summary of the main accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
At the date of approval of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue, but not yet effective: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on capital disclosures.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives.
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions.
The Directors expect that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments will be made when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 April 2007.
The presentational impact of IFRIC 12 is being assessed.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best assessment of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
b Adoption of IFRS The Groups date of transition to IFRS was 1 April 2004.
The Companys date of transition to IFRS was 1 April 2005 and all comparative information for the Company in these financial statements has been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS, except where otherwise required or permitted by IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued c Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of Pennon Group Plc and its subsidiary and joint venture undertakings.
The results of subsidiary and joint venture undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and excluded from the date of disposal.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the Group has the power to control a subsidiary.
The results of joint venture undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis where the company exercised joint control under a contractual arrangement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture acquired are measured at their fair values and any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to profit and loss in the year of acquisition.
d Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter-company sales, in the ordinary course of business for goods and services provided.
Revenue is not recognised until the service has been provided to the customer, or the goods which the sale relates to have been despatched to the customer.
Income from mains water and waste water charges includes an estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the period end based upon a defined methodology reflecting historical consumption and current tariffs.
e Landfill tax Landfill tax is included within both revenue and operating costs.
f Segmental reporting Each of the Groups business segments provides services which are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of the other business segments.
The Groups internal organisation and management structure and its system of internal financial reporting is based primarily on business segments.
The business segments comprise the regulated water and sewerage services undertaken by South West Water Limited and the waste management business of Viridor Limited.
Segmental revenue, expense and results, include transactions between businesses.
Inter-segmental transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
g Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation from the acquisition of subsidiary and joint venture undertakings represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Further details are contained in accounting policy l. When a subsidiary or joint venture undertaking is sold, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of unamortised goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRS, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date and annually thereafter.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 was not reinstated on transition to IFRS and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued h Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, with the expense taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
i Property, plant and equipment i Infrastructure assets being water mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, pipelines and sea outfalls Infrastructure assets were included at fair value on transition to IFRS and subsequent additions are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Expenditure to increase capacity or enhance infrastructure assets is capitalised where it can be reliably measured and it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will flow to the entity.
The cost of day-to-day servicing of infrastructure components is recognised in the income statement as it arises.
Infrastructure assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives, which are principally: Dams and impounding reservoirs 200 years Water mains 40 100 years Sewers 40 100 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
ii Landfill sites Landfill sites are included within land and buildings at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes acquisition and development expenses.
The cost of a landfill is depreciated to its residual value which is linked to gas production at the site post-closure over its estimated operational life taking account of the usage of void space.
Where the obligation to restore a landfill site is an integral part of its future economic benefits, a non-current asset within property, plant and equipment is recognised.
The asset recognised is depreciated based on the usage of void space.
iii Other assets including properties, over-ground plant and equipment Other assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are depreciated evenly over their estimated economic lives to their residual value, which are principally: Freehold buildings 30 60 years Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease Operational structures 40 80 years Fixed plant 20 40 years Vehicles, mobile plant and computers 3 10 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
The cost of assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs which are incremental to the Group.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset an asset which necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use are capitalised as part of the asset.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued j Grants and contributions Grants and contributions receivable in respect of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the cost of those assets.
Grants and contributions receivable in respect of expenditure charged against profits in the year have been included in the income statement.
k Leased assets Assets held under finance leases are included in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at their equivalent capital value and are depreciated over their estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter.
The corresponding liability is recorded as borrowings.
The interest element of the rental costs is charged against profits using the actuarial method over the period of the lease.
Rental costs arising under operating leases are charged against profits in the year they are incurred.
l Impairment of assets Assets which have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets which are subject to amortisation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Value in use represents the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be derived from a cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects an assessment of the cost of capital of the cash-generating unit.
Impairments are charged to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
m Investment in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recorded at cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid, including associated acquisition costs.
Subsequently, investments are reviewed for impairment on an individual basis annually, or if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
n Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the investment in the joint venture.
The carrying value of the Groups investment is adjusted for the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses recognised in the income statement.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest are not recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
o Inventories Inventories and work in progress is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes labour, materials and attributable overheads.
p Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, short-term deposits held at banks and other short-term highly liquid deposits subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current borrowings.
51 33-96 2-colour 14 June 14 6 07 12:40 Page 52 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued q Derivatives and other financial instruments The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: i Loans and receivables All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the net fair value of the consideration received.
Following initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the instruments are derecognised or impaired.
Premia, discounts and other costs and fees are recognised in the income statement through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative instruments are initially recorded at cost and subsequently remeasured at fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the income statement except for cash flow hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, when the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an on-going basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
iii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts and the impact of discounting.
iv Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
r Taxation including deferred tax Tax payable for the year is provided at current rates that are substantively enacted.
Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the future for it to be utilised.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued s Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions are made where there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that there will be an outflow of economic benefits to settle this obligation and a reliable estimate of this amount can be made.
The Groups policy on provisions for specific areas is: i Landfill restoration costs Provisions for the cost of restoring landfill sites are made when the obligation arises.
Where the obligation recognised as a provision gives access to future economic benefits, a non-current asset in property, plant and equipment is recognised.
Provisions are otherwise charged against profits.
ii Environmental control and aftercare costs Environmental control and aftercare costs are incurred over the operational life of each landfill site and may be incurred for a considerable period thereafter.
Provision for all such costs is made over the operational life of the site and charged to the income statement on the basis of the usage of void space.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been communicated to affected parties.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the current amount of a provision is the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle obligations.
The unwinding of the discount to present value is included as a financial item within interest payable and similar charges.
t Share capital and treasury shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The Group balance sheet incorporates the shares held by the Pennon Employee Share Trust and which have not vested by the balance sheet date.
These are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity until such time as they vest.
u Dividend distributions Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid: final dividends when authorised in general meeting by shareholders.
53 33-96 2-colour 14 June 14 6 07 12:40 Page 54 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued v Employee benefits i Pension obligations The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined benefit schemes Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using bid price.
Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are measured by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method and discounted at the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent term to the liability.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on scheme assets and the increase during the period in the present value of scheme liabilities, arising from the passage of time, are included in other finance income or cost.
Changes in past service costs arising from changes in benefits are recognised immediately in income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity and recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Defined contribution schemes Costs of the defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
ii Share-based payment The Group operates a number of equity settled, share-based payment plans for employees.
The fair value of the employee services required in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the grant.
Fair values are calculated using an appropriate pricing model.
Non-market based vesting conditions are adjusted for in assumptions as to the number of awards which are expected to vest.
w Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred, except where it is virtually certain that the contract will be awarded, in which case they are recognised as an asset which is amortised to the income statement over the life of the contract.
x Fair values The fair value of the interest rate swaps is based on the market price of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date if they are publicly traded.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
In the case of bank loans and other loans due in more than one year the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
