33-96 2-colour 14 June:33-96 14 June 15 6 07 12:00 Page 96 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER SERVICES Electronic communications Shareholders can elect to receive shareholder communications Share dealing service electronically by signing up through www.
co. uk a website operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareholders need The low-cost share dealing service offered by Stocktrade enables only their shareholder reference printed on the proxy form shareholders to buy and sell shares in the Company on a lowenclosed with this Annual Report.
There is no charge to register cost basis and to make regular investments in the Company.
and shareholders will also have access to information about Telephone Stocktrade on 0845 601 0995 and quote: LOW their shareholding.
Commission is 0.5% subject to a minimum charge of 15 to 10,000, then 0.2% thereafter.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Share gift service The 2007 Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 26 July 2007.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Through Sharegift, an independent charity share donation Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders.
scheme, shareholders who only have a small number of shares with a value that makes it uneconomical to sell them, can Appointing a proxy donate such shares to charity.
Donations can be made by completion of a simple share transfer form which is available A Form of Proxy is enclosed with the Notice of Annual General from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Meeting and instructions for its use are shown on the form.
Individual Savings Accounts Electronic proxy voting By holding their shares in the Company in a Mini or a Maxi Shareholders also have the opportunity to register the Individual Savings Account ISA, shareholders may gain appointment of a proxy for any general meeting of the tax advantages.
The corporate ISA is administered by Lloyds Company once notice of the meeting has been given and TSB Registrars.
may do so for the 2007 Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof via www.
co. uk a website Dividend re-investment plan operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
The Company is operating a Dividend Re-investment Plan.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST The plan provides Shareholders with the opportunity to invest the whole of the cash dividend they receive on their Pennon CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through Group shares to buy further shares in the Company at favourable the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the commission rates.
Full details of the Plan, including how to 2007 Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by join, will be sent out to shareholders on 24 August 2007. following the procedures described in the CREST manual.
Details of the above shareholder services are available from the THE PENNON WEBSITE Company Secretary's Department, telephone: 01392 443024.
The Pennon website at www.
co. uk provides news Online portfolio service and details of the Companys activities plus links to Group websites.
The investor information section contains up-to-date The online portfolio service provided by Lloyds TSB Registrars information including dividend payment dates and amounts.
gives shareholders access to more information on their It also holds historical details and a comprehensive share price investments.
Details of the portfolio service are available information section.
from Lloyds TSB Registrars online at www.
co. uk Pennon Group Plc Registered office: Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR Registered in England No.
