Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2007 Designed and produced by ConranDesignGroup 44 0 20 7566 4600.
At a glance Photography by Sam Robinson.
Printed in the UK by MPG impressions, Environmental Management System ISO 14001 certified and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certified.
Petrofac has a proven track record in We operate in four key geographic Through our divisions, we design, build, This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks on Revive Special Silk 75 helping companies and governments areas the UK Continental Shelf, operate and manage oil & gas facilities, which is produced with 50% fide-inked post-consumer waste, 25% unprinted exploit oil & gas resources worldwide.
Middle East and Africa, Commonwealth train personnel and where our expertise pre-consumer waste and 25% virgin fibre and Revive 100 uncoated which is manufactured from 100% post consumer reclaimed material.
All pulps used Over the last five years, our workforce of Independent States and Asia Pacific can leverage our skills in alignment with are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
Revive 75 has increased from 1,000 to more than with support through 24 offices our customers we develop and co-invest Special Silk is a Carbon Neutral product.
9,500 and our revenues have grown at worldwide, including key centres in in projects.
At all times and in every aspect 40% compound per annum.
Aberdeen, Sharjah, Woking, Mumbai of our work, we maintain an unyielding and Chennai.
commitment to health and safety.
SGS-COC-003115 Three divisions, one standard Locations Key achievements during the year Percentage of group revenue Engineering & Construction The successful completion and delivery of a new gas plant 58% This division carries out conceptual design, front end engineering 31% in the Kauther field in north Oman and design FEED and construction of oil & gas plants and Securing repeat business at Karachaganak in Kazakhstan: Revenue associated infrastructure.
Experienced in both greenfield and completion of the fourth gas train is scheduled for 2009 US$1,415m brownfield developments, our planning and project teams develop Achieving good progress on two new gas trains at the 2006: US$1,081m solutions that help maximise the lifetime value of oil & gas assets Salam gas plant for Khalda Petroleum Company in Egypt on time, on budget and across the world.
see page 32 for details A significant increase in valuable consultancy work, handled Our expertise is broad and includes oil & gas gathering, processing through our office in Woking, UK and transportation facilities.
We thrive on challenges and have a Award of US$600 million lump-sum EPC contract for In Salah long record of delivering innovative solutions however demanding Gas in Algeria the project or site conditions.
Locations Key achievements during the year Percentage of group revenue Operations Services The successful transition of the Dubai Petroleum offshore assets to 37% Our Operations Services division supports customers through two the new contract under which we provide operational management 25% separate business streams.
services as service operator Revenue Contract extensions for GNPOC in Sudan and for Maersk in the US$911m Petrofac Facilities Management provides comprehensive UK North Sea 2006: US$729m operational support for oil & gas assets.
Within Facilities Developing a long-term relationship with BP in the Gulf of Mexico to Management, our operations management teams deliver a total support the development of their training and competency function outsourcing capability which takes full responsibility for managing Completion of Brownfield retrofits in the Greater Kittiwake area for a customers asset.
Our integrated resources businesss enables Venture Production and the WaGE project for Talisman customers to choose from our wide portfolio of support services The continuing success of our Emergency Response Service while retaining ultimate responsibility for the asset.
20 customers and over 70 facilities now rely Management also includes a significant brownfield engineering on our support to provide an integrated response in the event of capability together with a range of specialist consultancy services.
an incident on or offshore Provision of a training management solutions contract for Petrofac Training helps customers optimise their peoples Petroleum Development Oman PDO in support of Engineering & expertise and reduce risk through competency-based training Constuction execution on Harweel contract in Oman see page 34 in safety and operational disciplines.
We also offer a range of for details managed solutions in the areas of training administration and management, in emergency response and crisis management, and provide training consultancy in all of these areas.
Locations Key achievements during the year Percentage of group revenue Energy Developments Successfully negotiating the contract for the Northern Producer 5% Energy Developments provides the platform through which we floating production facility for the Don Area development in the 114% partner with customers by developing and co-investing in upstream UK North Sea and submission of final field development plans Revenue and energy infrastructure projects where we can deploy our wider Completing the acquisition of a 45% interest in the Chergui gas US$133m groups operations and engineering skills.
plant in Tunisia see page 30 for details 2006: US$62m Exceeding expectations for operations in the Cendor field, offshore With an experienced team of asset managers and commercial Malaysia, where we have a 30% stake.
Cendor recorded 98% specialists, backed by strong financial resources, we work production uptime during 2007 and a year of safe operation alongside our customers to develop solutions which enhance project viability, better manage project risks and improve alignment.
