indd Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: TIM Date: 19.02.08 Server: Studio II Set-up: Tim First Read Revisions www.
uk Statement of Directors Responsibilities Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
They have elected to continue to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with UK GAAP.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report which complies with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Aricom plc and signed on its behalf by: Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Chairman 20 February 2008 64 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 6 65 5
