Notes to the financial statements IFRS continued 16 Goodwill 000 At 1 January 2006 474,338 Acquisitions restated at fair value on completion of review carried out during post-acquisition investigative period : Falanx 9,400 Soisic 1,530 Exchange differences restated 57,589 At 31 December 2006 restated 427,679 Revision to consideration KEG 65 Revision to consideration KSI 37 Exchange differences 6,742 At 31 December 2007 420,835 During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Group tested its balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
No impairment charge was recorded as a result of this annual impairment test.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs according to business segment.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by CGU at 31 December 2007 are summarised below: Systems Processor Physical IP Design Division Division Division Group 000 000 000 000 Goodwill relating to Artisan 95,805 300,370 396,175 Goodwill relating to Falanx 9,400 9,400 Goodwill relating to Axys 6,117 6,117 Goodwill relating to KEG and KSI 5,372 5,372 Goodwill relating to Soisic 1,680 1,680 Goodwill relating to other acquisitions 2,060 31 2,091 107,265 302,050 11,520 420,835 The recoverable amount for each CGU has been measured based on a value in use calculation.
Processor Division PD The Processor Division encompasses those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specic functions such as graphics IP, fabric IP, embedded software IP and congurable digital signal processing DSP IP.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations were: Period over which the directors have projected cash ows A ten-year forecast period is used with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2017 of 3% per annum.
It is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to properly reect the period over which the benets of the acquisition of Artisan to the Processor Division are expected to accrue.
It is expected that it will take between four and seven years from acquisition before a meaningful proportion of ARMs larger semiconductor Partners are licensing physical IP from the Group, with royalties being generated from these licences a further two to four years later, i. e. a total period of six to 11 years.
Forecast revenue growth Revenue is forecast to grow by an amount consistent with the Groups five-year plan as well as analysts expectations.
These have proved to be reliable guides in the past and the directors believe that these estimates are appropriate.
Revenue attributable to the benets afforded by owning the PIPD unit The directors believe that revenue will accrue to the Processor Division as a result of the ownership of the Physical IP Division for the following reasons: The development of faster and more power-efficient microprocessors as a result of collaboration between PD and PIPD engineering teams.
This is expected to generate more PD licensing deals at higher prices: The potential for PD to win more microprocessor licensing business as a result of ARM being able to offer both processor and physical IP in-house: and The improvement in PD operating margins as a result of being able to transfer a number of engineering tasks to the Bangalore design centre acquired with Artisan.
Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to remain consistent with current operating margins over the period of the calculation.
78 ARM Holdings plc 16 Goodwill continued Discount rate Future cash ows are discounted in line with ARMs estimated weighted average cost of capital of approximately 10% pre-tax.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to the Processor Division is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value.
Physical IP Division PIPD The Physical IP Division is concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon.
It is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to properly reect the period over which the benets of the acquisitions of Artisan and Soisic are expected to accrue.
It is expected that it will take between four and seven years from acquisition before the majority of ARMs larger semiconductor Partners are licensing physical IP from the Group, with royalties being generated from these licences a further two to four years later, i. e. a total period of six to 11 years.
Forecast revenue growth Revenue is forecast to grow by approximately 17% per annum in the first five years, falling to 8% per annum by 2017 to reect the uncertainty of forecasting revenues in the years further in the future.
In assessing the appropriate valuation of Artisan in 2004, the directors assumed revenue growth of approximately 20% per annum was achievable in the Artisan stand-alone business based on process geometry shrinks bringing more licensing opportunities across a broader range of foundries and based on the significant increase in the usage of Artisan IP in 2003 and 2004 which is yet to generate royalties.
Licence revenues decreased by 13% year-on-year in 2007, with the order backlog at the end of the year being approximately 9% down on the level at the beginning of the year.
During 2007, a significant proportion of engineering resource was deployed to accelerate the technology portfolio rather than working on the conversion of order backlog into short-term revenue.
The directors believe that this investment in the technology portfolio will not only bring growth in future years to the Physical IP Division but also contribute signicantly to the success of the Processor Division as the synergistic benets of the combined technologies begin to accrue.
Therefore the directors have confidence that the overall forecast growth rate attributable to the Physical IP Division is achievable.
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to increase gradually over time with growth towards 40% by 2013.
In 2007, PIPDs operating margin as a standalone business was estimated at 5%, reecting both lower licensing revenues and additional R&D investment in order to accelerate the development of leading edge products.
This is expected to increase signicantly in future years as licence revenues from leading edge products gather pace and royalties increase at effectively 100% margins.
Costs are expected to grow broadly in line with licence revenue growth.
This timescale is consistent with ARMs experience in developing the processor licensing and royalty model.
ARM has signed approximately 500 processor licences over the last 17 years with less than half of these yielding royalties thus far.
As royalty revenues are a function of cumulative licensing, royalty growth gathers momentum as the licensing base grows ARM processor royalties have increased from $38 million in 2002 to $177 million in 2007.
Discount rate Future cash ows are discounted in line with ARMs estimated weighted average cost of capital of approximately 10% pre-tax.
The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to the Systems Design Division is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
Systems Design Division SDD The Systems Design Division is concerned with the tools and models used to create and debug software and system-onchip SoC designs.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations were: Period over which the directors have projected cash ows A five-year forecast period is used with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2012 of 3% per annum.
It is considered appropriate to use a five-year forecast period to properly reect the weighted average period over which the benets of the acquisitions of Axys, KEG and KSI are expected to accrue.
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to grow by an amount consistent with the Groups five-year plan.
