Notes to the financial statements IFRS 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies 1a General information about the Group The business of the Group ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group design reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software and sell development systems, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and power-efficiency of high-volume embedded applications.
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell microprocessors, application-specic integrated circuits ASICs and application-specic standard processors ASSPs based on the Groups architecture to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise the Groups technology, the Group is establishing its architecture as a RISC processor for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including digital cellular phones, storage devices and automotive functions and for potential use in many growing markets, including smart cards, household goods and digital video.
The Group also licenses and sells development systems direct to systems companies and provides consulting and support services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacic.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The registered ofce of the Company is 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ.
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in the UK, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM KK incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM France SAS incorporated in France, merged with Soisic SA during 2007 another Group company incorporated in France, ARM Belgium NV incorporated in Belgium, ARM Germany GmbH incorporated in Germany, Keil Elektronik GmbH incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
Limited incorporated in India, ARM Physical IP Asia Pacic Pte.
Limited incorporated in Singapore, ARM Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan and ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in PR China.
1b Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
This is in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale investments: share-based payments: financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the income statement: and embedded derivatives.
Restatement The 2006 results and balance sheet have been restated to harmonise the Groups treatment of accounting for provisions for sabbatical leave under IFRS and US GAAP.
Following the adoption of EITF 06-2 under US GAAP, the Group has re-assessed its accounting for sabbatical leave under IFRS, and has determined that provision for the cost of sabbatical leave should be made under IFRS.
Previously no such provision had been made under IFRS.
The change in policy has been accounted for as a prior year adjustment.
This has resulted in shareholders equity at 31 December 2006 being reduced by 2.3 million and the profit for the year ended 31 December 2006 being reduced by 0.4 million, when compared with the amounts previously reported.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments The preparation of these financial statements requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgments are summarised in note 1d.
