80 ACCOUNTING POLICIES COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Defined contribution plan the balance sheet date.
The fair value Basis of preparation Payments to the defined contribution of short-term deposits, loans and The financial statements of the Company plan are charged as an expense as they overdrafts with maturities of less than have been prepared under the historical fall due.
one year are assumed to approximate cost convention and in accordance with to their book values.
Deferred taxation The fair value of the Companys A summary of the more important US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes has accounting policies of the Company, Full provision is made, on an been estimated using quoted market which the Directors consider to be the undiscounted basis, for deferred taxation most appropriate, is set out below prices for similar instruments.
resulting from timing differences together with an explanation of where between the profits computed for The fair value of the Companys changes have been made to previous taxation purposes and profits stated in preference shares is based on the policies on the adoption of new the accounts to the extent that there is an quoted market price.
accounting standards in the year.
obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of the reversal of those timing The preparation of financial statements Hedging differences.
Deferred tax assets are in conformity with generally accepted Cashflow hedges recognised to the extent that they are accounting principles requires the use Where a derivative financial instrument is expected to be recoverable.
of estimates and assumptions that designated as a hedge of the variability in affect the reported amounts of assets cash flows of a recognised asset or and liabilities at the date of the financial Financial instruments liability, or highly probable forecast statements and the reported amounts Under FRS 25, the Companys transaction, the effective part of any gain of revenues and expenses during the cumulative, convertible, redeemable or loss on the derivative financial reporting period.
Although these preference shares are required to be split instrument is recognised directly in estimates are based on managements into debt and equity components with equity.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction best knowledge of the amount, event or the preference dividend being subsequently results in the recognition of actions, actual results ultimately may reclassified as a finance cost.
The fair a financial asset or liability, the associated differ from those estimates.
value of the debt element is established gains or losses that were recognised on issue of the shares, based on the directly in equity are reclassified into Changes in accounting policies discounted cashflows of the instrument profit or loss in the same period s during to the date of maturity and is then which the interest income expense is The Company has early adopted UITF 44, increased each year on an amortised cost Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
For other cashflow hedges, basis through the income statement in The adoption of UITF 44 represents a the associated cumulative gain or loss is order to arrive at the redemption amount removed from equity and recognised in change in accounting policy and the payable on maturity of the shares.
On the income statement in the same comparative figures have been restated purchase and cancellation of preference period s as which the hedged forecast accordingly.
The effect of this change has shares by the Company, a gain or loss is transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain resulted in an increase in investments at recognised in the income statement or loss on any ineffective part of the 29 January 2006 of 2.4 million, and a based on the difference between the hedge is immediately recognised in the further increase in investments during book value and fair value of the financial income statement.
2007 of 1.1 million, with corresponding liability element of the instrument at the credits direct to reserves.
Hedge of net investment in foreign date of purchase.
The difference between operations the book value and fair value of the Foreign currencies The gain or loss on the translation of a equity element of the instrument is net investment in a foreign operation Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised as a movement in retained and the instrument used to hedge this recorded using the rate of exchange earnings.
In addition, a transfer is made are recognised directly in the income ruling at the date of the transaction.
to non-distributable reserves from statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities retained earnings in order to maintain denominated in foreign currencies are the legal nominal value of share capital.
Share-based payments translated using the contracted rate The accounting for the Companys or the rate of exchange ruling at the The accounting for share-based preference shares in accordance with balance sheet date and the gains or payments is similar to IFRS 2, full details FRS 25 is identical to that under IAS 39, losses on translation are included in of which are given in the Accounting further details for which are given in the income statement.
note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Policies and note 21 to the Consolidated Statements.
Retirement benefits The Company uses derivative financial In addition, following the adoption of UITF Employees of the Company are able to instruments to hedge its exposure to 44, the cost for share-based incentives, in participate in the Premier Farnell UK foreign exchange and interest rate risks respect of shares in the Company, granted Pension Scheme, comprising both a to employees of group companies other arising from financing and investment defined benefit and a defined than Premier Farnell plc, is treated as an activities.
In accordance with its contribution plan.
The assets of the plan increase in investments with the treasury policy, the Company does not are held separately from those of the corresponding credit direct to reserves.
have or issue speculative derivative Company in an independently arrangements.
All transactions in administered fund.
financial instruments are matched to an Ordinary share capital underlying business requirement.
Defined benefit plan Ordinary share capital is classified as The Company is unable to identify its Derivative financial instruments are equity and dividends are recognised share of the underlying assets and recognised at fair value.
At period ends, as a liability in the period in which they liabilities of the scheme on a consistent the gain or loss on re-measurement to are approved.
and reasonable basis and therefore, as fair value is recognised in the income permitted by FRS 17, accounts for the plan statement.
However, where derivatives Cashflow as if it were a defined contribution plan.
qualify for hedge accounting, The Company has taken advantage of The Consolidated Financial Statements recognition of any resulting gain or the exemption from disclosing a cash include full disclosures of the UK defined loss will depend upon the nature of the flow statement under Financial benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 item being hedged see accounting Reporting Standard 1 revised.
which is similar to FRS 17 note 27. policy on hedging.
The fair value of forward currency contracts has been determined based upon market forward exchange rates at PREMIER FARNELL PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS 2007
