87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER FARNELL PLC We have audited the Company Financial In addition, we report to you if, in our Opinion Statements of Premier Farnell plc for the opinion the Company has not kept In our opinion: year ended 28 January 2007 which proper accounting records, if we have the Company Financial Statements comprise the Company Balance Sheet, not received all the information and give a true and fair view, in accordance the Company accounting policies and explanations we require for our audit, or with United Kingdom Generally the related notes.
These Company if information specified by law regarding Accepted Accounting Practice, of the Financial Statements have been directors remuneration and other state of the Companys affairs as at prepared under the accounting policies transactions is not disclosed.
We have also audited We read other information contained the information in the Directors the Company Financial Statements in the Annual Report and Accounts and Remuneration Report that is described and the part of the Directors consider whether it is consistent with as having been audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited the audited Company Financial have been properly prepared in We have reported separately on the Statements.
The other information accordance with the Companies Act Consolidated Financial Statements of comprises only the Chairmans 1985: and Premier Farnell plc for the year ended Statement, the Business Review, the 28 January 2007.
Directors Report, the Corporate the information given in the Directors Governance Statement and the Report is consistent with the unaudited part of the Remuneration Consolidated Financial Statements.
We consider the implications Directors and Auditors for our report if we become aware of  LLP The Directors responsibilities for any apparent misstatements or Chartered Accountants and preparing the Annual Report, the material inconsistencies with the Registered Auditors Directors Remuneration Report and Company Financial Statements.
Our Leeds the Company Financial Statements in responsibilities do not extend to any accordance with applicable law and 28 March 2007 other information.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Basis of audit opinion Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Our responsibility is to audit the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by Company Financial Statements and the the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit part of the Directors Remuneration includes examination, on a test basis, of Report to be audited in accordance with evidence relevant to the amounts and relevant legal and regulatory disclosures in the Company Financial requirements and International Statements and the part of the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
This report, including the opinion, has It also includes an assessment of the been prepared for and only for the significant estimates and judgments Companys members as a body in made by the Directors in the preparation accordance with Section 235 of the of the Company Financial Statements, Companies Act 1985 and for no other and of whether the accounting policies purpose.
We do not, in giving this are appropriate to the Companys opinion, accept or assume responsibility circumstances, consistently applied and for any other purpose or to any other adequately disclosed.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save We planned and performed our audit so where expressly agreed by our prior as to obtain all the information and consent in writing.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with We report to you our opinion as to sufficient evidence to give reasonable whether the Company Financial assurance that the Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view Statements and the part of the Directors and whether the Company Financial Remuneration Report to be audited Statements and the part of the are free from material misstatement, Directors Remuneration Report to be whether caused by fraud or other audited have been properly prepared irregularity or error.
In forming our in accordance with the Companies Act opinion we also evaluated the overall 1985.
We also report to you, whether adequacy of the presentation of in our opinion, the information given in information in the Company Financial the Directors Report is consistent with Statements and the part of the the Company Financial Statements.
Directors Remuneration Report to be The information given in the Directors audited.
Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referenced from the principal activities and business review section of the Directors Report.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
