53 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Premier Farnell plc the Company is a c Standards and interpretations to estimates.
Information about such company incorporated and domiciled in existing standards that are not yet judgements and estimates is contained in the UK and is listed on the London Stock effective and have not been early the accounting policies and Notes to the Exchange.
The address of the Companys adopted by the Group Consolidated Financial Statements, and registered office is Farnell House, Forge The following standards and the key areas are summarised below: Lane, Leeds, LS12 2NE, England.
The interpretations to existing standards The key sources of estimation Companys registered number is 876412. have been published that are mandatory uncertainty that have the most for the Groups accounting periods These Consolidated Financial significant effect on the carrying value beginning on or after 1 May 2006 or Statements have been approved by the of assets and liabilities are: later periods but which the Group has Board of Directors on 28 March 2007.
The estimation of the cost of pensions not early adopted: and other post retirement benefits IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Basis of preparation note 27 : Disclosures, and the complementary These Consolidated Financial Statements The estimation of the net realisable amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of have been prepared in accordance with value of inventory: and financial statements Capital International Financial Reporting disclosures effective for annual The estimation of the recoverable Standards IFRS and International periods beginning on or after amount of goodwill used when Financial Reporting Interpretations 1 January 2007 : assessing goodwill for impairment Committee IFRIC interpretations note 8.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective endorsed by the European Union EU for annual periods beginning on or Areas of judgement that have the most and with those parts of the Companies after 1 January 2009 : significant effect on the amounts Act 1985 applicable to companies recognised in the financial statements reporting under IFRS.
These IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2 effective for include: Consolidated Financial Statements have annual periods beginning on or after been prepared under the historical cost 1 May 2006 : The decision to categorise certain convention with the exception of items as exceptional: IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting derivative financial instruments which and Impairment effective for annual The allocation of goodwill to cash are recognised at fair value.
A summary periods beginning on or after generating units: and of the more important Group accounting 1 November 2006 : and The classification of assets or disposal policies adopted in the preparation of the IFRIC 11, Group and Treasury Share groups as held for sale in accordance Consolidated Financial Statements is set Transactions effective for annual with IFRS 5. out below.
These policies have been periods beginning on or after consistently applied to all the years At 28 January 2007 the BuckHickman 1 March 2007. presented, unless otherwise stated.
business was not classified as held for d Interpretations to existing standards sale in accordance with IFRS 5 as a Amendments to published that are not yet effective and not its disposal was not highly probable standards effective for the year ended relevant for the Groups operations at that date.
28 January 2007 The following interpretations to existing IAS 19 Revised 2004, Employee standards have been published that are benefits was early adopted in the year Basis of consolidation mandatory for the groups accounting ended 29 January 2006.
The Consolidated Financial Statements periods beginning on or after 1 March b Standards, amendments and incorporate the results of the Company 2006 or later periods but are not interpretations effective for the and each of its subsidiaries for the relevant for the Groups operations: year ended 28 January 2007 but financial year ended 28 January 2007.
IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement not relevant Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the approach under IAS 29, Financial The following standards, amendments Group where control is deemed to exist reporting in hyperinflationary and interpretations to published when the Group has the power, directly economies effective from 1 March standards are mandatory for accounting or indirectly, to govern the financial and 2006 : periods beginning on or after 1 January operating policies of an entity so as to 2006 but have no material impact on IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded obtain benefits from its activities.
The the Group: derivatives effective for annual results of subsidiaries are included in the periods beginning on or after 1 June Consolidated Financial Statements from IAS 21 Amendment, Net investment 2006 : and the date the control commences until the in a foreign operation: date that control ceases.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession IAS 39 Amendment, Cash flow hedge Arrangements effective for annual Intra-group balances and transactions accounting of forecast intragroup periods beginning on or after are eliminated on consolidation.
IAS 39 Amendment, The fair value Business combinations and The Directors anticipate that the option: goodwill adoption of the above Standards and IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, Interpretations in paragraph c above All business acquisitions are accounted Financial guarantee contracts: on the effective date will not have a for by applying the purchase method.
IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time significant impact on the Groups Goodwill arises where the fair value of adoption of international financial financial results.
the consideration paid exceeds the fair reporting standards: The financial statements of the value attributed to the net assets IFRS 6, Exploration for and evaluation Company, which have been prepared in acquired.
Goodwill arising on of mineral resources: accordance with UK GAAP, are acquisitions after 1 February 1998 and presented on pages 79 to 86.
IFRIC 4, Determining whether an prior to 2 February 2004, the transition arrangement contains a lease: date to IFRS, was capitalised and Key sources of estimation and amortised over its estimated useful life.
IFRIC 5, Rights to interests arising uncertainty As a result of the transition to IFRS, such from decommissioning, restoration The preparation of financial statements amortisation ceased on the transition and environmental rehabilitation in conformity with generally accepted date to IFRS.
Goodwill arising on funds: and accounting principles requires acquisitions made prior to 1 February IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from management to make estimates and 1998 was written off directly to reserves participating in a specific market assumptions that affect the reported in the year of acquisition.
Under IFRS 1 Waste electrical and electronic and IFRS 3 such goodwill will remain amounts of assets and liabilities and the equipment.
eliminated against reserves and will not reported amounts of revenue and be written back to the income statement expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these in the event of a disposal.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 54 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED with effect from the transition date to Revenue recognition Dilapidation provisions IFRS all resulting exchange differences Revenue comprises the fair value for The Group is required to perform are recognised as a separate the sale of goods to outside customers, dilapidation repairs on leased properties component of equity and included in excluding value added and sales taxes, prior to the properties being vacated at the Groups cumulative translation and is recognised when the significant the end of their lease term.
When a foreign entity is sold, risks and rewards of ownership have for such costs are made where a legal such translation differences are been transferred to a third party.
obligation is identified and the liability recognised in the income statement can be reasonably quantified.
as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Segment reporting Goodwill and fair value adjustments Property, plant and equipment A segment is a distinguishable arising on the acquisition of a foreign component of the Group that is Property, plant and equipment are entity are treated as assets and engaged in providing products stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated liabilities of the foreign entity and business segment, or in providing to write off the cost of the individual translated at the closing rate.
products within a particular economic assets, less the estimated residual value, environment geographic segment, from the time it becomes operational by Financial instruments and where the risks and returns are equal annual instalments over their different between components.
The Group uses derivative financial estimated useful lives.
Asset lives and instruments to hedge its exposure to residual values are reviewed annually.
foreign exchange and interest rate risks Expense classification Depreciation rates are principally as arising from operational, financing and Cost of sales comprises the cost of follows: investment activities.
In accordance with goods delivered to customers including Freehold land not depreciated its treasury policy, the Group does not the cost of freight, packaging and Freehold buildings 50 years have or issue speculative derivative inventory adjustments.
Plant and equipment between 5 and arrangements.
All transactions in Distribution costs represent all 10 years financial instruments are matched to an operating expenses including sales, underlying business requirement.
Property, plant and equipment is marketing, product and purchasing, reviewed for impairment when there are Derivative financial instruments are warehousing, information technology indications that the carrying value may recognised at fair value.
At period ends, and electronic commerce.
the gain or loss on re-measurement to Administrative expenses comprise the fair value is recognised in the income Interest is not capitalised.
cost of central head office and the statement.
However, where derivatives Group Board.
qualify for hedge accounting, recognition Intangible assets of any resulting gain or loss will depend Non-recurring charges credits that are Computer software is capitalised on the upon the nature of the item being hedged considered to be sufficiently significant basis of the costs incurred to acquire see accounting policy on hedging.
to have a material impact on the Groups and bring to use the specific software financial results are disclosed in the and includes capitalised internal labour appropriate category on the face of the Hedging where appropriate.
These costs are income statement.
Cashflow hedges amortised on a straight line basis over Where a derivative financial instrument their estimated useful lives, between Foreign currency translation is designated as a hedge of the variability three and five years.
Items included in the financial in cash flows of a recognised asset or Other intangible assets acquired through statements of each of the Groups liability, or highly probable forecast business combinations are recognised at entities are measured using the transaction, the effective part of any fair value on acquisition and amortised currency of the primary economic gain or loss on the derivative financial on a straight line basis over their environment in which the entity instrument is recognised directly estimated useful lives as follows: operates the functional currency.
If a hedge of a forecast The Consolidated Financial Statements transaction subsequently results in Contractually-based are presented in pounds sterling, which the recognition of a financial asset or customer relationships 20 years is the Companys and Groups functional liability, the associated gains or losses Patents 18 years and presentation currency.
that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit or loss in Impairment Assets and liabilities are translated at the same period s during which the the exchange rates ruling at the end The carrying amounts of the Groups interest income expense is recognised.
Exchange profits goodwill and indefinite lived intangible For other cashflow hedges, the or losses on trading transactions are assets are reviewed annually, or when associated cumulative gain or loss is included in the Group income statement there are indications that the carrying removed from equity and recognised except when deferred in equity as value may not be recoverable, to in the income statement in the same qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying determine whether there is any indication period s as which the hedged forecast net investment hedges, which, along of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to transaction affects profit or loss.
The with other exchange differences arising cash generating units for the purpose of gain or loss on any ineffective part of from non-trading items are dealt with impairment testing.
If any such indication the hedge is immediately recognised through reserves.
exists, the assets recoverable amount is in the income statement.
estimated and if the carrying value The results and financial position of all Hedge of net investment in foreign exceeds the recoverable amount, a loss the Group entities that have a functional operations is recognised in the income statement.
currency different from the presentation The portion of the gain or loss on The recoverable amount is the greater of currency are translated into the an instrument used to hedge a net the assets net selling price and value in presentation currency as follows: investment in a foreign operation that use where value in use is based on the assets and liabilities for each balance is determined as an effective hedge is present value of the estimated future sheet presented are translated at the recognised directly in equity.
The gain cashflows arising from the asset.
closing rate at the date of that balance or loss on any ineffective portion of A financial asset or a group of financial sheet: the hedge is recognised immediately assets is impaired and impairment income and expenses for each income in the income statement.
losses are incurred if there is objective statement are translated at the average evidence of impairment as a result of a exchange rate for the period: and Leases past event subsequent to the assets The costs of operating leases are initial recognition.
The Group assesses charged to the income statement as whether objective evidence exists for they fall due.
each financial asset or group of financial PREMIER FARNELL PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS 2007 55 assets at the balance sheet date to For valuation of share options the income statement except to the extent determine whether any impairment Binominal Lattice model is used and, as that it relates to items recognised has arisen.
the performance measure is non-market directly in equity, in which case it is based earnings per share growth, recognised in equity.
Post-retirement benefits the value of the expense is adjusted to Current tax is the expected tax payable reflect expected and actual levels of The Group accounts for pensions and on the taxable income for the year, using vesting.
For the LTIP, the Monte Carlo other post-retirement benefits in tax rates enacted or substantially model is used and, as the performance accordance with IAS 19 revised 2004, enacted at the balance sheet date, and conditions are market-based share Employee Benefits.
any adjustment to tax payable in respect price performance relative to the FTSE of previous years.
Pensions mid-250 Index, the expense is not The Group operates both defined benefit Deferred tax is provided using the adjusted except for forfeitures.
The fair and defined contribution pension plans.
balance sheet liability method, providing value of SAYE grants are calculated for temporary differences between the In respect of defined benefit plans using the Black Scholes model and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities where the amount of pension is defined, expense is only adjusted to reflect for financial reporting purposes and the usually based on factors such as age, forfeitures.
amounts used for taxation purposes.
years of service and compensation, the The Group chose not to adopt the The following temporary differences are net asset or obligation of each plan at exemption under IFRS 1 relating to not provided for: goodwill not deductible the balance sheet date is calculated by a share-based payments.
Consequently, for tax purposes, the initial recognition qualified actuary using the projected unit in calculating the expense, a full of assets or liabilities that affect neither credit method.
The obligation is retrospective approach has been accounting nor taxable profit, and calculated by discounting the amount of followed on all awards granted but not differences relating to investments in future benefits that employees have vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
subsidiaries to the extent that they will earned in return for their service in the probably not reverse in the foreseeable current and prior periods.
An allowance Share capital future.
The amount of deferred tax is made for scheme expenses and nonprovided is based on the expected Ordinary share capital is classified as service related benefits.
Plan assets are manner of realisation or settlement of equity and dividends are recognised as recorded at fair value.
The net income the carrying amount of assets and a liability in the period in which they are statement credit charge comprises liabilities, using tax rates enacted or principally the service cost, and the approved.
substantially enacted at the balance finance income costs, which are The Groups preference shares are split sheet date.
recognised in the period in which they into debt and equity components, with arise.
The net income statement impact A deferred tax asset is recognised only the associated dividend being recognised is credited charged in arriving at to the extent that it is probable that on an accrual basis in the income operating profit.
The net pension future taxable profits will be available statement as a finance cost.
The fair deficit surplus of each pension plan is against which the asset can be utilised.
value of the debt element is established recorded on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the on issue of the shares, based on the extent that it is no longer probable that All actuarial gains and losses at the date discounted cash flows of the instrument the related tax benefit will be realised.
of transition to IFRS have been to the date of maturity, and is then recognised in equity at that date.
increased each year on an amortised Additional income taxes that arise from Following the early adoption of IAS 19 cost basis through the income statement the distribution of dividends are revised 2004, actuarial gains and in order to arrive at the redemption recognised at the same time as the losses that arise subsequent to the amount payable on maturity of the liability to pay the related dividend.
transition date to IFRS in calculating shares.
On purchase and cancellation of the Groups obligation in respect of each preference shares by the Company, a Investment in own shares plan, are recognised in the Statement gain or loss is recognised in the income Shares acquired by the Premier Farnell of Recognised Income and Expense.
statement based on the difference Performance Share Plan are shown as between the book value and fair value Payments to defined contribution a reduction in shareholders funds.
The of the financial liability element of the pension plans where the Group pays cost of administering the trust are borne instrument at the date of purchase.
The fixed contributions into a separate by the Company as incurred.
difference between the book value and entity are charged as an expense as fair value of the equity element of the they fall due.
Trade and other receivables instrument is recognised as a movement Other post-retirement benefits Trade and other receivables are stated at in retained earnings.
In addition, a In the US, the Group provides unfunded cost less any provision for impairment.
transfer is made to non-distributable post-retirement medical benefits to reserves from retained earnings in order certain US employees.
The expected Trade and other payables to maintain the legal nominal value of costs of these benefits are accrued over share capital.
Trade and other payables are stated the period of employment using an at cost.
accounting methodology similar to Inventories that for defined benefit pension plans.
Cash and cash equivalents Inventories are stated at the lower of Actuarial gains and losses are cost and net realisable value on a first in recognised in the Statement of Cash and cash equivalents comprise first out basis.
Cost comprises all Recognised Income and Expense.
cash balances and short-term deposits expenditure, including related repayable on demand and available production overheads where within one day without penalty.
Bank Share-based payments appropriate, incurred in the normal overdrafts that are repayable on The Group operates three share-based course of business in bringing the demand and form an integral part of the incentive schemes: an executive share inventory to its present location and Groups cash management are included option scheme, a long-term incentive condition at the balance sheet date.
Net as a component of cash and cash plan LTIP and a save as you earn realisable value is the estimated selling equivalents for the purpose of the cash SAYE scheme.
These are accounted for price less any selling costs.
in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based made against slow moving and obsolete Payment, which requires an expense to inventory where appropriate.
Research and development be recognised in the income statement for all three schemes over the vesting Expenditure on research activities Taxation including deferred tax period.
The expense is based on the fair undertaken with the prospect of gaining value of each instrument at the grant Income tax on the profit or loss for the new technical knowledge and date, using option pricing models.
The year comprises current and deferred understanding is expensed in the expense is credited to retained earnings.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS 2007
