51 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc The Company We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise the balance sheet and the related notes.
These Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing parent company financial statements have been prepared Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report that is described as having been audited.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments We have reported separately on the Group financial made by the directors in the preparation of the parent statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended company financial statements, and of whether the accounting 31 December 2007. policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent information and explanations which we considered necessary company financial statements in accordance with applicable in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United reasonable assurance that the parent company financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration of the presentation of information in the parent company Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and financial statements and the part of the Directors regulatory requirements and International Standards on Remuneration Report to be audited.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members Opinion as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies In our opinion: Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the parent company financial statements give a true and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally shown or into whose hands it may come save where Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited company financial statements give a true and fair view and have been properly prepared in accordance with the whether the parent company financial statements and the Companies Act 1985: and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent have been properly prepared in accordance with the with the parent company financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
 LLP The information given in the Directors Report includes that Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors specific information presented in the Chairmans statement, London the Chief Executives summary, the Business review, the Financial review and the report on Corporate Governance 3 March 2008 that is cross referred from the Business review section of Notes: the Directors Report.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all statements since they were initially presented on the website.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives summary, the Business review, the Financial review, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Directors report and the Corporate Governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
