76 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Pension costs The company operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
The scheme was closed to new members aside from the provision of insured death in service benefits in 1997.
The company accounts for pension costs in line with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The amounts charged to operating profit regarding the defined benefit scheme are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits do not vest immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest costs and the expected return on the assets are shown as a net amount of other financial costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair values and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the Projected Unit Credit Method, and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting defined benefit asset or liability, net of related deferred tax, is presented separately after other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
Foreign exchange Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year-end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year-end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to the dates of the transactions is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Cash flow statement No cash flow statement is prepared for the company under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements as the cash flows of the company have been included in the group cash flow statement of Premier Oil plc.
Related party transactions The company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures with regard to the nondisclosure of transactions between group companies.
Share-based payments The company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The company issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the binomial model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised as the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash-settled share-based payments.
Sales revenue Sales of petroleum production are recognised when goods are delivered or the title has passed to the customer.
Tax Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements
