76 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2007 1 Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Pension costs The company operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
The scheme was closed to new members aside from the provision of insured death in service benefits in 1997.
The company accounts for pension costs in line with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The amounts charged to operating profit regarding the defined benefit scheme are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits do not vest immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest costs and the expected return on the assets are shown as a net amount of other financial costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair values and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the Projected Unit Credit Method, and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting defined benefit asset or liability, net of related deferred tax, is presented separately after other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
Foreign exchange Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year-end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year-end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to the dates of the transactions is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Cash flow statement No cash flow statement is prepared for the company under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements as the cash flows of the company have been included in the group cash flow statement of Premier Oil plc.
Related party transactions The company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures with regard to the nondisclosure of transactions between group companies.
Share-based payments The company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The company issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the binomial model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised as the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash-settled share-based payments.
Sales revenue Sales of petroleum production are recognised when goods are delivered or the title has passed to the customer.
Tax Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 1 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Fixed assets Oil and gas assets a Development and production assets Development and production assets are accumulated generally on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production.
The cost of development and production assets also includes the cost of acquisitions and purchases of such assets, directly attributable overheads, finance costs capitalised, and the cost of recognising provisions for future restoration and decommissioning.
Depreciation of producing assets The net book values of producing assets are depreciated generally on a field-by-field basis using the unit-of-production method by reference to the ratio of production in the period and the related commercial reserves of the field, taking into account future development expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves.
Pipelines are depreciated on a unit-of-throughput basis.
b Impairment of development and production assets An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The carrying amount is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the asset, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows of each field are interdependent.
c Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full at the commencement of oil and gas production.
The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
A corresponding tangible fixed asset is also created at an amount equal to the provision.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production facilities.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the fixed asset.
Stock and underlift Non-production related stocks are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Under and overlifts of crude oil are recorded at market value.
Derivative financial instruments The company accounts for derivative financial instruments in line with FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The company uses derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its exposure to oil price fluctuations.
All derivatives are initially recorded at cost, including transaction costs.
Derivatives are subsequently carried at fair value.
All changes in fair value are recorded as financial income or expense in the year in which they arise.
Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability or instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing parties in an arms length transaction.
It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated transaction costs that would be incurred in an actual transaction, or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated discounted values of cash flows.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements
