GOVERNANCE 41 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IAS 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
Parent company financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the company only financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities, and for the preparation of the Report of the Directors and the Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements
