Notes to the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2007 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments to fair value, and in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
New standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, becoming effective during the year, have not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds, except where indicated.
Changes in comparative figures During the current period, the provisional fair values on the acquisition of the Spirit group have been finalised.
This has resulted in goodwill and deferred tax for the Group for the period ended 19 August 2006 being restated.
The impact has been to increase goodwill by 34.4m, deferred tax liabilities by 49.6m and deferred tax assets by 15.2m, as shown in notes 12, 15 and 29 to the financial statements.
The Company figures for the period ended 19 August 2006 have been restated to recognise the capital contributions made to its immediate subsidiary undertaking in respect of Company shares granted to employees of another group company in return for services provided.
The impact has been to increase investments in subsidiary undertakings and amounts owed by group undertakings by 4.3m, as shown in note 13 to the financial statements.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective The IASB and IFRIC issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
They have not been adopted early by the Group and the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups reported income or net assets in the period of adoption.
Effective for the Group for the financial year beginning 19 August 2007: x Amendment to IAS 1 Capital Disclosures x IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure x IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment x IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions Effective for the Group for future years: x Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs x IFRS 8 Operating Segments x IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements x IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes x IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction Note: The effective dates are in respect of accounting periods beginning on or after the date.
Basis of consolidation Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent company Punch Taverns plc and all of its subsidiaries.
The Groups interests in its joint ventures are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are carried at cost, plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of accumulated profits less distributions received and less any impairment in value of any investments, in the financial statements of the Company.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is not amortised.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired, the gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
At the date of transition to IFRS, the Group elected to re-state all business combinations that took place between 1 September 1999 and 21 August 2004, under IFRS, and restated goodwill accordingly.
