Financial glossary Beta model EBITDA A model for pricing share options which applies the same EBITDA represents earnings before finance income, finance costs, principles as the binomial model but takes into account the movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK income tax, relationship of the share price to a portfolio of a comparator depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale of non-current assets.
EBITDAR Binomial model EBITDAR represents earnings before finance income, finance A model for pricing share options which applies the same costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK income principles as decision tree analysis by considering the tax, depreciation, amortisation, rental costs and profit on sale of possibilities that prices may increase or decrease by a non-current assets.
Effective interest rate method Black-Scholes model A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset A model for pricing share options using the share price, the time or financial liability and of allocating the interest income or to expiration of the option, the risk-free interest rate and the expense over the relevant period.
expected standard deviation of the share return.
Experience gains losses Cash flow hedges Changes in the valuation of a defined benefit pension scheme A hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows.
which arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial assumptions made for the previous valuation.
Collateralised cash Cash pledged as security.
Fair value The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities Combined Code settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms The Combined Code on corporate governance sets out standards length transaction.
of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition Finance lease and development, remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations with shareholders.
A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments throughout the expected lifetime of the asset.
The lessee shows Convertible bond an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance sheet.
Finance A corporate bond that can be exchanged for a specific number of lease payments are accounted for as a reduction in the liability.
Convertible bonds generally have lower interest rates than non-convertible bonds because they accrue value as Goodwill the price of the underlying shares rise.
Convertible bonds Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company over therefore reflect a combination of the benefits of shares and the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date of acquisition.
IAS Corporate governance International Accounting Standards Corporate governance describes the system by which an IASB organisation is directed and controlled.
International Accounting Standards Board Curtailment gains losses IFRS Curtailment gains losses arise on the curtailment or settlement International Financial Reporting Standards of a defined benefit pension plan.
A curtailment occurs when a company is demonstrably committed to make a material reduction IFRIC in the number of employees covered by the plan or amends the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee terms of the plan such that a material element of future service Indexation allowance by current employees will no longer qualify for benefits.
Indexation allowance is tax relief given when calculating capital Debenture notes gains which takes into account inflation based on the Retail Prices A form of bond taken out by a company, which it agrees to repay Index RPI.
Indexation allowance can only reduce an unindexed at a specified future date and which bears interest either fixed or gain to nil and cannot create or increase a capital loss.
Interest cover Derivative financial instruments A performance measure which shows the number of times Financial instruments whose value changes in response to EBITDA and net finance income and finance cost covers the net changes in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, finance income and finance cost.
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable, and Interest rate swap are settled at a future date.
A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure to Diluted earnings per share changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed interest rate Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after allowing for the in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or payment to receive dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted a floating rate interest rate in exchange for a fixed interest rate.
average number of options outstanding during the period and shares LIBOR from the assumed conversion of convertible bonds.
London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
Interest rate quoted between Dividend cover banks which is a recognised basis for calculating a floating A performance measure which shows the number of times that interest rate.
profit for the year covers dividends paid and proposed.
Operating lease Earnings per share EPS A method of renting assets over a period which is less than the Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses the expected life of the asset.
The lessee does not show an asset or earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments are accounted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
for by the lessee as operating expenses in the period.
com Operating result Profit after deducting all operating expenses including depreciation and amortisation.
Over-hedge An over-hedge occurs when the notional principal amount of the hedging instrument is greater than that of the hedged item.
Net debt Loans, convertible bonds and finance leases net of other interest bearing deposits and cash and cash equivalents.
Exceptional items Items which management consider will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments.
These are separately identified in order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance.
PBT Profit before tax Projected unit credit method The accounting method used to calculate provisions for pensions.
It includes not only the pensions and vested interests accrued at the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases in salaries and pensions.
Securitisation The process of raising finance by creating a financial instrument secured by pooling other financial assets to back the instrument.
Segmental reporting Information regarding the financial position and results of operations in different business areas.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Working capital Short-term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day operations.
It is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
101 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 3
