statement of directors responsiBilities in respect of the directors report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: mak e judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: s tate whether applicable International Accounting Standards as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and pr epare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In so far as the directors are aware: ther e is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and the dir ectors have taken all necessary steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
The directors confirm that the accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are appropriate to the Group, have been consistently applied and are supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
All applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board dr peter finnegan GROUP SECRETARY 2 APRIL 2008 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17
