dr iaiN dorrity dr pEtEr j. FiNNEgaN dBa, mBa, Fcma CHIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICER CHIEF FInAnCIAL OFFICER Dr Dorrity has a PhD in Physical Chemistry from Dr Finnegan has a Doctorate in Corporate Finance Exeter university.
Dr Dorrity joined Crystalox in 1986 from Henley Management College, an MBA from and became responsible for sales and marketing Manchester Business School and is a Fellow of the in 1988.
He was a member of the MBO team that Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
acquired the Crystalox business in 1994 and was Dr. Finnegan became Company Secretary of Crystalox appointed to the Boards of both Crystalox Limited in 1985 whilst he was Financial Director of its holding and Crystalox Solar Limited at that time.
Subsequently company Elkem Holdings Limited, and was appointed following the merger of PV Silicon and Crystalox to the Board of both Crystalox Solar Limited and he became a member of the management Board Crystalox Limited in 1994.
He was appointed as of PV Crystalox Solar AG in 2002 and a Director of a Director of the Company on its formation in the Company on its formation in December 2006.
Dr Finnegan has overall Group Dr. Dorrity has over 25 years experience in crystal responsibility for finance, accounting, planning, growth and semiconductor materials with an emphasis financial control, legal matters and investor relations.
latterly on multicrystalline silicon technology.
Prior to Prior to joining the Group he worked for a number joining Crystalox Dr Dorrity spent eight years working of large international manufacturing companies in research and in industry with General Electric Company.
in various positions including Chief Accountant, Company Secretary and Financial Director.
compaNy NumBEr iNdEpENdENt auditor rEgistrars advisors 06019466 GRAnT THORnTOn uK LLP EquInITy REGISTRARS Registered Auditor The Causeway rEgistErEd oFFicE Chartered Accountants Worthing Brook House 1 Westminster Way West Sussex Bn99 9DA 174 Milton Park Oxford Ox2 0PZ Abingdon solicitors Oxfordshire Ox14 4SE BaNkErs nORTOn ROSE LLP nATIOnAL WESTMInSTER BAnK PLC 3 More London Riverside dirEctors Thames Valley Corporate Office London EC2A 2HA Maarten Henderson Chairman Abbey Gardens Dr Hubert Aulich 4 Abbey Street Dr Iain Dorrity Reading RG1 3BA Dr Peter Finnegan John Sleeman corporatE advisors J P MORGAn CAZEnOVE compaNy sEcrEtary 20 Moorgate Dr Peter Finnegan London EC2R 6DA PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 directors report The directors are pleased to present the Annual Report together with the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007. principal activities The principal activity of the Group is the production and supply of multicrystalline silicon wafers to the worldwide photovoltaic market.
The Group supplies multicrystalline silicon wafers to some of the major photovoltaic cell makers in the world.
The Chairmans Statement and Business Review contain a review of these activities and comments on the future outlook.
results for the year The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 is shown on page 26.
The movement in the Group reserves during the year is shown on page 28 and segmental information is shown in note 8 on page 43. proposed dividend The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend in respect of the current financial year of 0.025 per share.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the year end.
No dividends were paid during the year 2006: nil.
Business review The Group is required by the Companies Act to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2007 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found on pages 6 to 11.
The Business Review also includes details of expected future developments in the business of the Group.
Details of any significant developments since the balance sheet date are contained in note 34 to the Group financial statements.
summary of key performance indicators The Group monitors the performance of each of its business units through detailed monthly operational and financial reporting, with comparisons to plan.
Updated business forecasts are regularly made.
In addition, the Group maintains regular reviews and dialogue with each of the Groups operational business units.
At Board level, the most important key performance measures are: megawatts peak output equivalent from wafers produced: earnings before interest and tax EBIT calculated excluding nonrecurring costs for instance IPO costs and EBT grants : free cash flow, defined as the net cash flow of the Group before the payment or receipt of interest and distributions to shareholders: underlying operating profit and operating costs as a percentage of sales operating return on sales calculated excluding nonrecurring costs for instance IPO costs and EBT grants : and earnings per share.
Comparative performance in the current year and prior year is summarised as follows: 2007 2006 Megawatt peak output equivalent as above 190 215 EBIT as defined above Euro million 73.9 48.3 Free cash flow Euro million 36.1 12.2 Operating return on sales 28.1% 19.9% Earnings per share Euro cents 12.0 8.4 future developments for the Business future outlook The Boards assessment and evaluation of future development and the future outlook for the business is discussed in the Business Review which can be found on pages 6 to 11. principal risks and uncertainties Our strategy for achieving consistent and sustainable growth and margins in a changing economic environment is to manage the way we operate in different international markets.
The Group mitigation strategy includes spreading market risks to achieve an acceptable balance of revenue earned from different geographic markets and adopting an effective natural hedging position by sourcing raw materials and other direct materials or services where possible in the same currencies as sales revenues are derived.
The Groups strong natural hedging position means that the Group exposure to foreign currencies is limited.
The Group focuses on supplying top tier customers in the photovoltaic industry.
The industry is dominated by a small number of major producers of solar cells and larger number of smaller cell manufacturers.
Accordingly, by concentrating on the larger well established customers, there is some concentration of customer credit risk.
The Group currently holds cash deposits in various currencies which exposes it to interest rate risk.
However, these currencies are generally held against future fixed capital and working capital expenditure to expand the business.
The Group had net borrowings in Japanese Yen on 31 December 2007 and these borrowings expose the Group to the risk of a significant increase in the Japanese Yen interest rate.
However, the Groups strong Japanese Yen cash inflows mean that these borrowings could be repaid within a twelve month timescale.
14 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 financial instruments Financial instruments comprise borrowings, internal cash resources, trade debtors and trade creditors arising from normal trading.
The vast majority of the Groups borrowings are in Japan and are utilised to finance the Groups working capital requirement in respect of its business activity in Japan.
However, the Group repaid 3 billion 18.1 million in respect of the Japanese Yen loans in January 2008.
The Groups current cash reserves and borrowing facilities are adequate to comfortably finance the business for the foreseeable future.
environmental policy The Group is a major producer of silicon wafers for incorporation into solar cells that will ultimately be used for the production of electricity from sunlight.
Accordingly, the Group is focused on its environmental responsibilities.
It is the Groups policy to seek continually to eliminate and, where this is not practicable, to minimise negative environmental impacts from the pursuit of its various business interests while continuing to produce high quality products to its customers requirements.
It is the Groups policy to comply with all statutory environmental legislation as a minimum and to aim to improve upon the standards set by the local regulatory authorities.
It is the Groups policy to foster an informed and responsible approach to all environmental concerns and it encourages the involvement of employees, customers and suppliers.
Regulatory authorities are consulted and informed at all appropriate times.
The Group supports long term strategies to minimise, reuse and recycle packaging wherever possible thereby enhancing its environmental credentials.
directors The names of the directors who served during any part of the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 are: Maarten Henderson Chairman Chairman and member of remuneration committee Chairman and member of nomination committee Member of audit committee Dr Iain Dorrity Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Dr Peter Finnegan Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director Dr Hubert Aulich Executive Director, German Operations John Sleeman Nonexecutive Director Chairman and member of audit committee Member of remuneration and nomination committees Nonexecutive directors.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 12 to 13.
Dr Iain Dorrity and Dr Peter Finnegan served throughout the year.
Dr Hubert Aulich, Maarten Henderson and John Sleeman were appointed on 21 May 2007.
Beneficial interests in significant contracts None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Group or any of its subsidiaries was party during the year.
suBstantial shareholders As at 11 March 2008 the Group had been notified, or is aware, of the following shareholdings amounting to 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of % of issues ordinary ordinary shares shares Dorrity I 44,085,974 10.58% Garrard B 41,881,642 10.05% Oldham S 26,718,750 6.41% Hesford E 19,037,110 4.57% Young G 19,037,110 4.57% Schroder Investment Management Ltd 18,708,680 4.49% AndreaeRenz S 15,191,377 3.65% Greaves Trust 14,695,324 3.53% Standard Life Investments 13,009,463 3.12% PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 directors report continued directors interests Listed below are the directors at 31 December 2007 together with their notifiable interests in the share capital of the Company: Maarten Henderson Nil Iain A Dorrity 44,085,974 Hubert A Aulich 11,355,469 Peter J Finnegan 2,671,912 John K Sleeman Nil going concern The directors are confident, after making appropriate enquiries at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the accounts.
policy on the payment of creditors Individual companies within the Group operate different creditor payment policies.
In Germany, standard terms are ten days with 3% discount or 30 days net: in the UK and Japan standard terms are an average of 45 days.
employees The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and prospective employees.
The Group recognises that its operation and reputation depends upon the skill and effectiveness of its employees and is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of age, sex, race, nationality or ethnic origin.
disaBled employees It is the Groups policy to give sympathetic consideration to the recruitment, continuing employment, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons.
In the event that a person became disabled he or she would continue to be employed, wherever possible, in the same job.
If the degree of disablement made this impractical, every effort would be made to find suitable alternative employment and to give any appropriate training.
The Groups policy on training and career progression applies equally to everyone within the Group whether or not disabled.
donations During the period under review the Group made no charitable donations 2006: nil.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made in the period 2006: nil.
disclosure of information to auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
auditor Grant Thornton UK LLP were appointed as auditor during the year to fill a casual vacancy in accordance with Section 338 1 of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditor for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985.
By order of the Board dr peter finnegan GROUP SECRETARY 2 APRIL 2008 16 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
