accounting policies PV Crystalox Solar PLC was incorporated on 5 December 2006 and presents its first financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2007.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The Company has taken advantage of Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, excluding it from preparing a company only profit and loss account on the basis that a Consolidated Income Statement is included in the Group financial statements.
investments Investments are included at cost and reviewed annually for impairment.
employment Benefit trust eBt All assets and liabilities of the EBT are have been consolidated in these financial statements as PV Crystalox Solar PLC has fide facto control over the trusts net assets as its sponsoring company.
financial instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the entity after deducting all of its financial liabilities.
Where the contractual obligations of financial instruments including share capital are equivalent to a similar debt instrument, those financial instruments are classed as financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are presented as such in the Balance Sheet.
Finance costs and gains or losses relating to financial liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
Finance costs are calculated so as to produce a constant rate of return on the outstanding liability.
Where the contractual terms of share capital do not have any terms meeting the definition of a financial liability then this is classed as an equity instrument.
Dividends and distributions relating to equity instruments are debited direct to equity.
deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
foreign currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
The exchange difference arising on the retranslation of opening net assets is taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference arising on the retranslation of the profit and loss accounts to the closing rate.
All other translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57
