80 Statement of directors responsibilities and approval of the annual financial statements The financial statements, presented on pages 82 to The directors are responsible 109, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the maintenance of as issued by the IASB and include amounts based on judgements and estimates made by management.
proper accounting records The directors also prepared the other information included in the annual report and are responsible for and the preparation, integrity both its accuracy and its consistency with the financial statements.
and fair presentation of the The directors also have general responsibility for financial statements of selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently, and for taking such steps as are Randgold Resources Limited reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud and other and its subsidiaries.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no reason to believe that the group and company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available cash resources.
The viability of the company and the group is supported by the financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by the independent accounting firm, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board.
The directors believe that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLPs audit report is presented on page 81.
The maintenance and integrity of the Randgold Resources Limited website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the report since it was initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Jersey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial information may differ from other jurisdictions.
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 25 March 2008 and are signed on its behalf by: P Litard DM Bristow Chairman Chief executive Jersey, Channel Islands 25 March 2008 80 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007
