116 Notice of the annual general meeting for the year ended 31 December 2007 Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of the company will be held in the conference room of the Atlantic Hotel, St. Bredale, Jersey, JE3 8HE, Channel Islands on 28 April 2008 at 08h45 for the following business: ORDINARY BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY SPECIAL BUSINESS 1 To receive and adopt the companys financial statements for the 7 a SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 1: year ended 31 December 2007 and the reports of the directors Resolved as a special resolution that, the memorandum of and the auditors thereon.
association of the company be and it is hereby altered in 2 To elect Dennis Mark Bristow whose appointment automatically accordance with Article 38 1 a of the Companies Jersey ends on the day of the annual general meeting in accordance Law 1991 the Law such that the authorised share capital with the articles of association as a director.
Dr Bristow is the of the company be and it is hereby increased from CEO and his re-election to the board by shareholders last took US$4 000 000 to US$5 000 000 by the creation of an place on 25 April 2005 and is recommended by the board.
additional 20 000 000 ordinary shares of US$0.05 ranking Dr Bristow was initially appointed to the board in August 1995 pari passu with the ordinary shares of US$0.05 and having and has served as the CEO since that time.
He has been the rights and obligations set out in the existing articles of instrumental in developing the company into a gold-focused association of the company.
mining and exploration business with a market capitalisation of b SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 2: more than US$3.5 billion and a strong investor following.
In Resolved as a special resolution that, subject to the terms of the definitions of the Combined Code and the passing of special resolution number 1 to be proposed Sarbanes Oxley Act, Dr Bristow is deemed an executive at the annual general meeting convened to consider this director.
resolution, paragraph 4 of the companys memorandum 3 To elect Graham Patrick Shuttleworth whose appointment of association be amended to read as follows: automatically ends on the day of the annual general meeting in 4.
The capital of the company is US$5 000 000 divided accordance with the articles of association as a director.
Mr Shuttleworth was appointed to the board during the year c SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 3: and is recommended by the board for election.
In terms of Resolved as a special resolution that, subject to the the definitions of the Combined Code and the Sarbanes Oxley passing of special resolution number 1 and special Act, Mr Shuttleworth is deemed an executive director.
resolution number 2 to be proposed at the annual general Mr Shuttleworth joined Randgold Resources as chief financial meeting convened to consider this resolution, article 4.1 of officer and financial director on 1 July 2007, but has been the companys articles of association be amended to read closely associated with the company since its inception, initially as follows: as part of its management team involved in listing the company 4.1The authorised share capital of the company is on the London Stock Exchange in 1997, and subsequently as an advisor.
He is a qualified chartered accountant and prior to US$5 000 000 divided into 100 000 000 ordinary joining the company he was a managing director and the head shares of US$0.05 each.
of metals and mining for the Americas in the global investment d SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 4: banking division of HSBC Bank.
That the Randgold Resources Limited Restricted Share 4 To receive and adopt the report of the remuneration committee.
Scheme the Scheme as summarised in the Appendix to 5 To approve fees payable to directors as follows: the Notice to Shareholders dated 25 March 2008, a copy a A general annual retainer to all non-executive directors of of the Rules of which is produced to this Meeting and for US$50 000. the purpose of identification initialled by the chairman, be b An annual committee assignment fee per committee approved and the directors of the company be authorised served: to do all acts and things which they may consider i. audit committee US$35 000: necessary or desirable to bring the Scheme into effect and ii.
remuneration committee US$25 000: and to operate it and that for the purposes of Article 58 4 of the iii.
nomination and governance committee US$10 000.
Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, the c The chairman of a board committee to receive an additional Companies Law, the adoption and operation of the premium to the committee assignment fee of US$15 000.
Scheme by the company is approved and sanctioned, with d The senior independent director, in addition to the general the intention that the company shall not have made, annual retainer but in lieu of any committee assignment fee, pursuant to or in connection with the Scheme, a distribution to receive an additional US$85 000. within the meaning of Part 17 of the Companies Law.
e The non-executive chairman, in addition to the general annual retainer, but in lieu of any committee assignment fee, REASONS AND EFFECTS to receive an additional US$170 000.
The reason for special resolution number 1 is to create 20 000 000 f An award to each director of restricted shares being new ordinary shares of US$0.05 each to ensure that the company 1 200 ordinary shares per year.
The shares are to vest over has sufficient new ordinary shares to fulfil the requirements of any a three year period from the date of the award, being new issue of ordinary shares which might occur.
Vesting would accelerate on the following represents a 25% increase in the authorised share capital of the conditions: company.
The effect of the special resolution is to create those i. termination other than resignation or dismissal: new shares and thereby increase the authorised share capital of ii.
voluntary retirement after the age of 65, with a minimum the company from US$4 000 000 to US$5 000 000. of three years service as a director: and The reason for special resolution number 2 is to reflect in the iii.
change in control of the company.
companys memorandum of association the new authorised share 6 To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditors of the company.
capital pursuant to the increase thereof in terms of special resolution 116 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 number 1.
The effect of the special resolution is to amend after the annual general meeting, assuming the Scheme is paragraph 4 of the companys memorandum of association.
The reason for special resolution number 3 is to reflect in the 3 AWARDS UNDER THE SCHEME companys articles of association the new authorised share capital An award may take one of two forms: pursuant to the increase thereof in terms of special resolution a an Allocation, meaning a conditional award of a specified number of ordinary shares in the company Shares : or number 1.
The effect of the special resolution is to amend article b an Option to acquire a specified number of Shares at an 4.1 of the companys articles of association accordingly.
exercise price determined by the Remuneration Committee The reason for special resolution 4 is that the directors are seeking which may be a nominal amount.
approval for the introduction of the Scheme which is a long term An Award means either an Allocation or an Option.
incentive plan under which awards may be granted to executive Participants may be granted any combination of awards, directors.
The reason for its introduction is so as to align the whether in a single grant or pursuant to a series of grants.
interests of executives and shareholders in the long term growth and No payment is required for the grant of an award.
The current intention is that the Awards may normally only be granted within 42 days after the companys chief executive officer and finance director will be approval of the Scheme by the company in general meeting or granted awards under the Scheme.
within 42 days after the announcement of the companys results The directors believe that the adoption of the Scheme is in the best for the preceding financial year or half year.
Awards may also interests of the company.
They therefore unanimously recommend be granted at any other time at which the Remuneration that you vote in favour of special resolution number 4 as they intend Committee determines that there are exceptional circumstances to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
which justify the grant of an award.
No award may be granted later than ten years after the date on which the Scheme is NOTES approved by the company in general meeting nor at any time at 1 The register of directors interests and copies of all service which a dealing would not be permitted under the Model Code.
contracts of the company will be available during normal Subject to the limit set out in paragraph 7 below, awards may business hours at the registered office from the date of this be satisfied by the issue of new shares or by the transfer of notice until the conclusion of the meeting.
existing shares, either from treasury or otherwise.
2 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may 4 CONDITIONS ON VESTING OR EXERCISE appoint one or more proxies to attend, vote, speak and act in An Award may be granted subject to such performance his her stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
condition or conditions as the Remuneration Committee in its 3 For the convenience of members who are unable to attend the discretion sees fit the Performance Condition s which must meeting but wish to be represented thereat, a proxy form is be satisfied before an Award may be exercised or vest.
Attention is drawn to the fact that, if it is to be Performance will be measured over a period determined by the effective, a completed proxy form must reach Computershare Remuneration Committee the Performance Period : the Investor Services Channel Islands Limited, at least 48 hours intention of the Remuneration Committee is for the Performance Saturday, Sunday and public holidays excluded before the time Period to be a period of three financial years and that in setting appointed for the meeting, being 08h45 on Thursday 24 April the Performance Condition s, it shall have regard to institutional 2008. guidelines and market practice current at the time an award is 4 A copy of the draft Rules of the Scheme is available for granted.
inspection at the offices of Ashurst, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold It is intended that the initial Award to the CEO shall be subject to Street, London EC2A 2HA and the company's registered office a one year vesting period.
The initial award for the FD shall be during normal business hours from the date of this notice until subject to a vesting schedule whereby Awards vest the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for proportionately over the three consecutive years following the inspection at the place of the meeting for at least 15 minutes date he commenced employment with the company.
prior to and during the meeting.
If an event occurs which causes the Remuneration Committee to determine that the Performance Condition s have ceased to APPENDIX 1 be appropriate, it may in its discretion vary or waive those Summary of the Randgold Resources Restricted Share Scheme condition s provided that any new condition s imposed or any the Scheme variation are in its opinion fair, reasonable and no more difficult 1 GENERAL to satisfy than the previous condition s. The operation of the Scheme will be supervised by the 5 INDIVIDUAL LIMIT remuneration committee of the board the Remuneration No Award shall be granted to any individual if the aggregate Committee.
market value of the Shares subject to that Award together with 2 ELIGIBILITY the aggregate market value of any Shares committed to be Any employee including a director of the company or any issued or transferred pursuant to any other award made to him member of the group who is required to devote substantially the in the same financial period of the company under the Scheme whole of his working time to his employment or office shall be would exceed a sum equal to twice his earnings excluding eligible to participate in the Scheme.
The Remuneration bonuses or, if higher, such fixed number of shares as is Committee may in its absolute discretion grant awards to such determined by the Board on or prior to the date of grant of the Award.
eligible employees as it shall select and will take into account The Remuneration Committee has determined that the initial the extent to which an eligible employee may be able to award to the CEO will be 40 000 shares, the initial award to the contribute to the performance of the company over the vesting FD will be 36 000 shares.
6 OVERALL DILUTION LIMIT The current intention is that the Scheme will be used to make No award may be granted under the Scheme on any date if, as awards to the chief executive officer the CEO and the finance a result, the aggregate number of Shares issued or transferred director the FD, both of whom would receive awards shortly Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 117 118 Notice of the annual general meeting for the year ended 31 December 2007 continued from treasury, or committed to be issued or transferred from wilful or deliberately repeated after written notice, or not treasury, pursuant to awards made under the Scheme and cured by the participant within ten 10 business days pursuant to grants or appropriations made during the previous following written notice from the board detailing such ten years under all other employee share schemes established failure: or by the company would exceed fifteen per cent of the issued vi the participants becoming insolvent or making any ordinary share capital of the company on that date: or arrangement or composition with his creditors, 7 EXERCISE AND VESTING OF AWARDS provided that no act or failure to act on the participants part In normal circumstances, an Allocation may not vest nor an will be considered wilful if done, or omitted to be done by Option become exercisable unless the Performance Condition s the participant in good faith and in the reasonable belief that have been satisfied at the end of the Performance Period and his action or omission was in the best interests of the provided the participant remains employed by the group and company, has not given notice of intention to resign.
Having become an Allocation will vest at the end of the Performance Period and exercisable, an Option may be exercised for a period an Option will become exercisable and remain exercisable for a determined by the Remuneration Committee but ending no later period of twelve months from the end of the Performance than the day preceding the tenth anniversary of its grant.
The number of Shares which vest or over which If a participant ceases to be employed within the group before Options are exercisable will, in these circumstances, be the expiry of the Performance Period: determined by reference to the extent to which the Performance a by reason of death or disability: Condition s have been fulfilled over the Performance Period and b by reason of: will then be pro-rated according to the length of time between i any material breach by the company of any of its the date of grant of the Award and when the participant ceased obligations under a participants contract of employment plus one year when compared to the original employment: Performance Period.
ii the company requiring the participant to relocate his If a participant ceases to be employed within the group for one primary residence to a place designated by the of the reasons set out above on or after the expiry of the company it being acknowledged by the participant that Performance Period, a subsisting Option may be exercised for a he is required to travel on business as needed, except period of twelve months to the extent that the Performance for required travel on company business: Condition s have been fulfilled.
iii any material reduction in the participants title, duties, An award will, in any event, lapse on the tenth anniversary of its authority or responsibilities without his consent: date of grant, if not previously vested or exercised.
iv receipt by the participant of notice from the company 8 TAKEOVER, SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT AND under his contract of employment of the companys LIQUIDATION intention to terminate his employment without cause: or In the event of: v the assignment to the participant without his consent of a a sale by the company of substantially all of its assets in duties or responsibilities materially inconsistent with his one transaction or a series of related transactions: positions and duties described in his contract of b the acquisition by any person, entity, or group within the employment together, Good Reasons, meaning of Section 13 d 3 of the Securities Exchange Act provided that the participant may not terminate his of 1934 of the United States of America, as amended of employment for Good Reason unless he first gives the equity interests in the company representing thirty-five per company written notice specifying the Good Reason within cent 35% or more of the voting power in the company ninety days after the occurence of the event giving rise to including voting power exercisable on a contingent or Good Reason in the case of an employee who is taxable in deferred basis as well as immediately exercisable voting the United States on his salary and the company does not power : cure the Good Reason within thirty days after the date of c a merger or consolidation involving the company in which such notice: or holders of the companys equity securities immediately c by reason of the company terminating the participants before the merger or consolidation do not immediately after employment within the group for a reason other than: the merger or consolidation own over fifty per cent 50% of i the participants conviction of a plea of nolo contendere the voting power in the entity surviving the merger or to any felony: consolidation including voting power exercisable on a ii the participants gross negligence in the discharge of contingent or deferred basis as well as immediately his duties: exercisable voting power : or iii the participants wilful misconduct in the discharge of d when, at any time during a participants employment, the his duties: individuals who constitute the board on the date on which iv the participants wilful and material breach of any the participant commences employment the Incumbent provisions of the participants contract of employment Directors cease for any reason to constitute at least a which breach, if susceptible to cure, is not ended majority thereof: provided, however, that a director who was immediately upon written notice, or not cured by the not a director at the date on which the Scheme was participant within ten 10 business days following approved by the company shall be deemed to be an written notice from the board detailing such breach: Incumbent Director if such director was elected by, or on v the participants failure to perform his material duties the recommendation of or with the approval of at least a other than as a result of his disability which is either majority of the directors of the company who then qualified 118 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 as Incumbent Directors, either actually because they were other benefits subject to the Scheme, a participant's directors on the date on which the Scheme was approved maximum entitlement or to the basis for determining a by the company or by prior operation of this sub-clause d, participants entitlement under the Scheme and the but excluding, as a member of the Incumbent Directors, any adjustment thereof in the event of a variation in capital, such individual whose initial assumption of office is in except in the case of minor amendments to benefit the connection with an actual or threatened election contest administration of the Scheme and amendments to take relating to the election of the directors of the company as account of changes in legislation or to obtain or maintain such terms are used in Rule 14a-2 of Regulation 14A favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of participants or for any member of the group and the United States of America b no amendment may be made which would alter to the provided that a series of transactions shall be considered disadvantage of participants any rights already acquired by related if they occur within an eighteen month period, but the them under the Scheme without the prior approval of a fact that a series of transactions occur over a period longer than majority of the affected participants.
eighteen months shall not preclude such transactions from 12 OVERSEAS SCHEMES being related, The board may from time to time and without further formality an Allocation will vest immediately and an Option will become establish further plans in overseas territories, any such plan to exercisable and remain exercisable for a period of one month.
be similar to the Scheme but modified to take account of local The number of Shares which vest or over which Options are tax, exchange control or securities laws, regulation or practice.
exercisable will, in these circumstances, be determined by Shares made available under any such plan would count reference to the extent to which the Performance Condition s against any limits on overall or individual participation in the have been fulfilled over the reduced Performance Period.
Scheme save that only newly issued Shares or Shares If such an event takes place on or after the expiry of the transferred from treasury would count against the overall dilution Performance Period, a subsisting Option may be exercised for a limits.
period of one month to the extent that the Performance 13 TERMINATION Condition s have been fulfilled.
The Scheme may be terminated at any time by resolution of the If such an event occurs, an award may also be released in board or of the company in general meeting and in any event no exchange for an equivalent new award to be granted by any awards may be granted on or after the tenth anniversary of the acquiring company, if the participant so wishes and the date on which the Scheme is approved by the company in acquiring company agrees.
Termination will not affect the outstanding Where any such event occurs as part of an internal rights of participants.
reorganisation of the company, subsisting awards will be exchanged for new awards granted by the acquiring company By order of the board unless such an offer is not forthcoming from the acquiring company in which case vesting or exercise as set out above will be permitted.
9 VARIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL In the event of any variation in the ordinary share capital of the company, such adjustments to the number of Shares subject to awards and the price if any at which they may be acquired David J Haddon may be made by the Remuneration Committee as it may Secretary determine to be appropriate.
25 March 2008 10 VOTING, DIVIDEND AND OTHER RIGHTS Until Options or Allocations are exercised or vest, participants have no voting or other rights in respect of the Shares subject to those awards.
Shares issued or transferred pursuant to the Scheme will rank pari passu in all respects with Shares already in issue except that they will not rank for any dividend or other distribution paid or made by reference to a record date falling prior to the date of exercise or vesting of the relevant award.
Benefits obtained under the Scheme shall not be pensionable.
Awards are not assignable or transferable.
11 ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT The operation of the Scheme will be supervised by the Remuneration Committee which may amend the Scheme by resolution provided that: a prior approval of the company in general meeting will be required for any amendment to the advantage of participants to those provisions of the Scheme relating to eligibility, the limitations on the number of Shares, cash or Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 119
