Directors Report: Business Review Operating responsibly The need to operate with consideration for the wellbeing of all of our customers and employees is at the heart of Ranks approach to business.
Responsible gaming Our people The Rank Group has demonstrated that it takes seriously its responsibilities As a Group operating in one of the most tightly regulated areas of the leisure as a gambling operator.
Both Grosvenor Casinos and Blue Square have retail market, our ability to recruit and retain high calibre employees is developed strong operating procedures, which is why they carry the fundamental to our success.
It is not simply that our people have a direct inuence on the way that our Geoffrey Godbold, chief executive, GamCare customers feel when they are engaged with our businesses: the integrity and expertise of our people is the basis of our right to operate.
Across the Group Our aim is to provide enjoyment for all of our customers and our belief is we employ more than 8,000 people in a wide variety of roles, from croupiers that gambling should be a positive leisure experience.
At the same time to callers to chefs.
Of these, more than 2,000 are licensed by the Gambling we recognise that for a small minority of people gambling can become an Commission of Great Britain.
addictive behaviour which can lead to a range of problems for individuals and their families.
In 2007 we made significant progress in reducing employee turnover, as the table below shows.
Across the Group, employee turnover fell from 48% in Our philosophy across all of our businesses and in each of the territories 2006 to 39% in 2007.
While we continue to strive for improvement we in which we operate is based upon the three guiding principles of the recognise that this performance is signicantly better than many businesses Gambling Act: operating in the leisure markets.
The fact that we have achieved a reduction to prevent gambling being a source of crime or disorder, being in employee turnover in what has been a difficult trading environment for associated with crime or disorder or being used to support crime: our retail business is testament to the motivation and spirit of our people.
Employee turnover % to ensure that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way: 2007 2006 to protect children and other vulnerable persons from being harmed Mecca Bingo 41 54 or exploited by gambling.
Top Rank Espaa 49 51 Grosvenor Casinos 37 40 In support of these objectives, we undertook a number of major initiatives Blue Square 28 34 in 2007.
GamCare accreditation We have achieved GamCare accreditation for Grosvenor Casinos and Blue During 2007 more than 5,000 of our people participated in our responsible Square.
This involved the facilitation of 11 visits by GamCare to our casinos gaming training programme.
Employees from our casinos and bingo clubs in 2007. are trained to identify and report signs of problem gambling in customers.
Our managers are also trained in how to interact with the small minority Responsibility in Gambling Trust of customers who encounter gambling problems, providing a link to In 2007 we committed 220,000 to the Responsibility in Gambling Trust counselling services provided by organisations such as GamCare.
RiGT, which in turn funds a range of problem gambling counselling and education services.
All advertising by Ranks UK businesses carries the address of RiGTs gambleaware.
Working with the Gambling Commission In 2007, the Rank Group continued to work closely with our regulatory body, the Gambling Commission.
Rank was the first group to undergo a complete risk assessment by the Gambling Commission.
In 2007 The Rank Group was awarded the British Safety Councils prestigious 5 Star award of excellence for its health The Rank Group is a supporter of the and safety policies, procedures Responsibility in Gambling Trust and GamCare.
26 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Community Environment In 2007 Mecca Bingo raised 139,742 for its chosen charity, Breakthrough At Rank we take responsibility for the effect of our operations on the Earths Breast Cancer, through a variety of community activities involving employees natural resources and its climate.
Fundraising highlights included: In 2007, Rank established an environmental committee, chaired by Ranks the general managers of Mecca Bingo in Hackney Road and Eltham Hill chief executive, Ian Burke.
The committee is charged with the scrutiny of both in London raised 39,000 by visiting every Mecca Bingo club in the Groups environmental issues and is required to formulate and monitor the UK: green policies in each of our businesses.
members from Mecca Bingo in Wednesbury in the West Midlands In total, Rank committed 1m to environmental projects during 2007. climbed Mount Snowdon to raise 1,000: The focus of the Groups environmental activities has been the reduction of energy consumption and waste generation.
Key achievements in the two team members from Mecca Bingo in Stevenage cycled from year included: Stevenage to Gloucester, raising almost 2,000. equipment installed to optimise electrical supplies to 17 sites: In addition Mecca Bingo in Hyde Road Manchester launched an appeal to raise 30,000 for a new childrens hospital for the city.
equipment installed to reduce energy consumption on heating and ventilation systems at 23 sites: In 2008 Mecca Bingo is supporting Whizz-Kidz as its ofcial charity.
Whizz-Kidz provides customised mobility equipment, wheelchair training, the appointment of a new waste management and recycling agency to advice and life skills to disabled children.
A team from Mecca Bingo is identify and maximise recycling opportunities within the Companys sites.
hoping to raise 15,000 for the charity by participating in the 2008 In 2008, the Group is looking at a number of ways in which we can use our London Marathon.
broad customer reach to promote energy efficiency in the communities Grosvenor Casinos raised money for a variety of charities during 2007, where we operate.
including the British Heart Foundation and Breakthrough Breast Cancer.
Fundraising highlights included: the City Poker Classic a charity poker tournament for investment banks and fund management rms at the Victoria Casino raised 1,000 for Breakthrough Breast Cancer: a team from the Grosvenor Gunwharf Casino in Portsmouth cycled 32 miles to raise 800 for the British Heart Foundation.
Blue Square generated more than 20,000 for a variety of charities through the Grosvenor UK Poker Tour, including 2,000 for Manchester breast cancer charity, the Blossom Appeal.
A eet of mountain bikes has been supplied to the new G Casino in Thanet to encourage employees to cycle to work rather than drive.
The general Mecca Bingo supports Whizz-Kidz, which provides manager of the casino, Peter Donnelly, was one mobility equipment and training for disabled children.
of the first to take to two wheels.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 27
