Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and prepare the financial statements for both the Company and the Group on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Rank's corporate website, on which this Annual Report and financial statements will be published.
In relation to this, the directors would like to draw attention to the fact that legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 39
