Notes to the financial statements 1 General information and accounting policies c Voluntary changes in accounting policies The Rank Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom In 2007 The Rank Group Plc changed its accounting policies for exceptional under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is items and the net return on its dened benefit pension asset.
The Group given on page 87. has adjusted comparative amounts disclosed for the prior period presented as if the new accounting policies had always been applied see note 39.
Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with i Exceptional items EU endorsed International Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards The Group now defines exceptional items as those items which, by their IFRS and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies size or nature, are separately disclosed in order to give a full understanding Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
of the Group's financial performance and aid comparability of the Group's result between periods.
This would include, to the extent they are material, The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these gains or losses on the disposal of property, impairments of the carrying value financial statements are set out below.
of clubs and associated onerous lease provisions, costs of club closures, onerous lease provisions on vacant properties and disposal of businesses.
A Basis of preparation of the financial statements The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention Previously the Group dened exceptional items as those non-recurring as modied by the revaluation of available-for-sale investments, financial items which by their nature or size would distort the comparability of the assets and liabilities held for trading, and non-current assets held for sale.
Groups result from year to year.
The impact of the policy change is to reclassify certain costs from operating items to exceptional in relation to In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements impairments and profits on disposal of Mecca Bingo clubs in 2006. the directors have considered the issues impacting the Group during 2007 as detailed in the Business review on pages 2 to 27 and have reviewed the ii Net return on the dened benefit pension asset Groups projected compliance with its banking covenants detailed in the The Group has also reviewed its policy in relation to the classication Finance review on page 24.
Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts and within the income statement of the net return arising on its dened benefit operating budgets, which take into account managements actions on pension asset.
To improve comparability of the results and in accordance capital expenditure, cost control and the suspension of the dividend and with accounting best practice, the Group has decided to reclassify the net assuming that trading continues broadly in line with current expectations, return arising on the dened benefit pension asset from operating profit to the directors believe that the Group will generate sufficient cash to meet net nancing costs.
its borrowing requirements for the next 12 months and comply with its banking covenants.
d Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information, in conformity with IFRS, requires A summary of the Groups significant accounting policies is set out below.
the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of Except where noted below, these policies have been consistently applied.
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial information and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
It also a Amendments to published standards effective in 2007 requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosure: the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement IAS 1 Amendment, Capital Disclosures: or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
The best estimates IFRS 7, and the complementary amendment to IAS 1, introduce new of the directors may differ from the actual results.
disclosures relating to financial instruments.
This standard does not have any impact on the classication and valuation of the Groups Note financial instruments.
Categorisation of items as exceptional 1W, 4 Assets and liabilities carried at fair value 1G b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 but Hedge accounting 1G not relevant Retirement benets 1M, 34 The following standards, amendments and interpretations to Assets and liabilities held for sale 1U published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning Carrying value of assets and potential impairments 1L, 13 on or after 1 January 2007, but they are not material or relevant to the Estimated economic lives and residual values 1J, 1K Groups operations: Recoverability of deferred tax assets 1O, 15 IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 Financial B Consolidation Reporting in hyperinationary economies: a Subsidiaries IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2: Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding IFIRC 9, Re-assessment of embedded derivatives: and of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
All subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 1 General information and accounting policies continued a Gaming win The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition Revenue for casinos includes the gaming win before deduction of of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as gaming duty.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes and value added tax the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities before deduction of gross profits tax.
Revenue for Blue Square, including incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly sports betting and on-line casinos, represents gross win margin.
Although attributable to the acquisition.
Identiable assets acquired, liabilities and disclosed as revenue, gaming win is accounted for and meets the contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured denition of a gain under IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent and measurement.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair b Sale of goods discontinued operations only value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net and benets of ownership of the product have transferred to the buyer, assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in which may be upon shipment or upon completion of the product and the income statement.
the product being ready for delivery, based on the specic contract terms.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions c Rendering of services discontinued operations only between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also Revenue from services is recognised in the accounting year the services eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of have been rendered, by reference to the stage of completion of the the asset transferred.
Accounting policies as applied to subsidiaries have transaction at the balance sheet date.
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
d Sale of recovered materials discontinued operations only Recovered products are deemed to have an immaterial realisable value b Associates and joint ventures discontinued operations compared with the cost of production materials.
Income from the sale Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
of recovered materials is not recognised as such, being offset against the Associates are all entities over which the Group exercises significant materials cost.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially e Finance income recognised at cost, in accordance with the alternative treatment allowed Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective by IAS 31 and IAS 28.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes interest method.
goodwill identied on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment loss.
D Segmental reporting The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition Management has identied business segments as its primary reporting profits or losses after tax is recognised in the income statement, and its segments.
A business segment is dened as a group of assets and share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
operations engaged in providing products and services that are subject The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the to risks and returns different from those of the other business segments.
carrying amount of the investment.
Management has identied geographical segments as its secondary When the Groups share of losses after tax in an associate or joint venture reporting segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing equals or exceeds its interest or participation, including any other products and services in a particular economic environment, that are unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless subject to risks and returns different from those of a segment operating it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or in other economic environments.
Segment assets and liabilities are the result of segment operating activities Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and are either directly attributable to the segment or can be allocated to and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest or the segment on a reasonable basis.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction Segment revenue is revenue from operating activities directly attributable provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
to a segment from sales to external customers.
Accounting policies as applied to associates and joint ventures have been Segment expense is expense resulting from the operating activities of changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted a segment that is directly attributable to the segment and the relevant by the Group.
portion of an expense that can be allocated on a reasonable basis to the C Revenue recognition segment, including expenses relating to sales to external customers.
Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and services, net of E Foreign currency translation value added tax, contract advance amortisation, rebates and discounts.
a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
46 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements b Transactions and balances Securities are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency Subsequent changes in the fair value are recognised in equity.
The Group using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of of equity securities classied as available-for-sale, a significant prolonged such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for recognised in the income statement in finance costs, except when deferred available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the in equity where hedging criteria are met.
difference between the acquisition costs and the current fair value, less c Group companies any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the has the currency of a hyper-inationary economy that have a functional income statement.
currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the When securities classied as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the presentation currency as follows: accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the the income statement.
closing rate at the date of that balance sheet.
The closing US Dollar rate Impairment testing of trade receivables is described in note 1Q.
against Sterling was 1.99 2006: 1.96 and the closing Euro rate against Sterling was 1.36 2006: 1.48 : G Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: at the dates of the transactions.
The average US Dollar rate against i hedges of the fair value of recognised liabilities fair value hedge : Sterling in the year was 2.01 2006: 1.84 and the average Euro rate against Sterling was 1.46 2006: 1.47 : and ii hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash ow hedge : or iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
iii hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging differences are recognised in the income statement net of hedging as part transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
F Financial assets The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes The Group classies its financial assets in the following categories: loans and are disclosed in note 22. receivables and available-for-sale.
The classication depends on the purpose The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current asset for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than 12 months: it is classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
classied as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classied as a a Loans and receivables current asset or liability.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are i Fair value hedges included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as after the balance sheet date.
These are classied as non-current assets.
fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any Loans and receivables are classied as trade and other receivables in the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable balance sheet.
The Group only applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging xed interest risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to both b Available-for-sale financial assets the effective and ineffective portion of interest rate swaps hedging xed rate Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either borrowings is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to Changes in the fair value of the hedge xed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 47 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 1 General information and accounting policies continued I Provisions If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedge item for which the constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over the that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the period to maturity.
amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation ii Cash ow hedge using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are time value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
The increase in designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in equity.
The the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs.
a Onerous contracts The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer has been made against those leases where the property is now vacant and meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income cash ows derived from the property and its associated operations are statement within operating costs.
insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore iii Net investment hedge deemed onerous.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly b Provision on disposal to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to Following the disposal of an operation, provision is made for the the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss estimated future costs and potential warranty claims directly attributable relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are to the disposal.
included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed.
J Property, plant and equipment iv Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting and are depreciation and any impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
of these derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs.
as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future H Leases economic benets associated with the item will ow to the Group and the Leases are tested to determine whether the lease is a finance or operating cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance lease and treated accordingly.
Property leases comprising a lease of land are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into its two they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the a Finance leases straight line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially estimated useful lives, as follows: all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Finance freehold and leasehold property 50 years or their useful life if less: leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the present value of refurbishment of property 3 to 15 years: minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of xtures, ttings, plant and equipment and others 3 to 20 years.
interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period.
The property, An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.
These are included in the b Operating leases income statement.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums, are charged to The Group does not capitalise interest.
the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
48 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements K Intangible assets L Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment a Goodwill Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation value of the Groups share of the net identiable assets of the acquired are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances subsidiary, joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which an assets acquisitions of joint ventures is included in investments in joint ventures.
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at amortised cost as is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the at 1 January 2004 plus cost for any acquisition completed after 1 January purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for 2004 less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal which there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity The expected cash ows generated by the assets are discounted using sold, except where goodwill has been previously written off directly to appropriate discount rates, which reect the risks associated with the reserves under previous GAAP.
Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or group of cashIf an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount of the asset cashgenerating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
A cash-generating generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss unit is the smallest identiable group of assets that generates cash inows is recognised as an expense in the income statement immediately.
that are largely independent of the cash inows from other assets or group of assets.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 December 1997 has been written off directly to reserves.
its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been b Computer software and other development costs determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cashAcquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the generating unit in prior years.
costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income in the 3 to 5 years.
income statement immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated M Employee benefit costs with the production and development of identiable and unique a Pension obligations software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably The Group has both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
The generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one year, are schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies recognised as intangible assets for both externally purchased and internally or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
Direct costs include specic employee costs for A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension software development.
benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays over their estimated useful lives, estimated at between 2 to 5 years.
xed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or c Casino and other gaming licences constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming licences.
The hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employee amount capitalised is the difference between the price paid for a property service in the current and prior periods.
or business and the associated licence and the fair value of a similar property The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the dened or business without a licence.
Management believes that licences have benefit pension plan is the fair value of plan assets less the present value indefinite lives as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together licences are expected to generate net cash inows and each licence holds with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service a value outside the property in which it resides.
Each licence is reviewed costs.
The dened benefit asset is calculated annually by independent annually for impairment.
actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the Any costs incurred to obtain a cold casino licence or renewing casino dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated licences annually are expensed as incurred, except for the cost of the licence future cash outows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds at acquisition.
that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related d Other purchased intangible assets pension liability.
If acquired, the Group capitalises the costs of other intangible assets such as brands, trademarks and customer relationships.
Costs incurred to internally The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses immediately in the generate these intangible assets are expensed as incurred.
For business statement of recognised income and expense.
combinations occurring after 1 January 2004, purchased intangible assets are capitalised on the balance sheet at fair value on acquisition.
The valuation of purchased intangible assets and determining the useful economic life involves management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
Purchased intangible assets with nite lives are amortised over their useful economic lives, estimated at between 2 to 9 years.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 49 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 1 General information and accounting policies continued The cost of nished goods comprises raw material, direct labour, other Past-service costs are recognised immediately in operating profit, unless direct costs and related production overhead based on normal operating the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees capacity but excludes borrowing costs.
remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over business, less the cost of completion and selling expenses.
When necessary, the vesting period.
provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
The net return or cost arising on the dened benefit pension plan is O Taxation including deferred tax recognised in net finance costs.
Current tax is applied to taxable profits at the rates ruling in the relevant country.
For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if deferred tax are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction or a reduction in the future payments is available.
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been b Share-based compensation enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the deferred tax liability is settled.
grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against current taxation the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
P Cash and cash equivalents c Termination benets Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with Termination benets are payable when employment is terminated before banks, other short term highly liquid investments with original maturities the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Group recognises within loan capital and borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed Q Trade receivables formal plan: or providing termination benets as a result of an offer made Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benets falling due more than provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able d Bonus plans to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on a significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will formula that takes into consideration the profit and cash ows attributable enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in to the Companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The Group payments more than 30 days overdue are considered indicators that the recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The e Holiday pay carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance The Group recognises an appropriate liability for the cost of holiday account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement entitlements not taken at the balance sheet date.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written N Inventories off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against operating of inventory is determined on a first-in first-out basis.
costs in the income statement.
50 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements R Trade payables W Exceptional items Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently The Group defines exceptional items as those items which, by their size or measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
nature, are separately disclosed in order to give a full understanding of the Group's financial performance and aid comparability of the Group's result S Borrowings between periods.
This would include, to the extent they are material, gains Borrowings are recognised at cost, which is deemed to be materially the or losses on the disposal of property, impairments of the carrying value of same as the fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference clubs and associated onerous lease provisions, costs of club closures, between proceeds and redemption value is recognised in the income onerous lease provisions on vacant properties and disposal of businesses.
statement using the effective interest method.
X New standards and interpretations not applied Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: months at the balance sheet date.
Effective date The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bond was determined IFRS 3, Business Combinations Revised 1 July 2009 on the date of issue.
This amount is recorded as a liability and is held on an IFRS 8, Operating Segments 1 January 2009 amortised cost basis until such time as it is extinguished on conversion or IAS 23, Borrowing Costs Revised 1 January 2009 the maturity of the bonds.
The remaining proceeds have been allocated to IFRIC 11, IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 the conversion option and are recognised in shareholders funds.
This results IFRIC 14, The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, in a higher interest cost over the life of the bond as an equal and opposite Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction 1 January 2008 amount to the equity component is amortised through the income For annual periods beginning on or after statement as a nancing cost.
In addition, IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations T Share capital that are not applicable to The Rank Group Plc: Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Schemes treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the above standards to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration statements in the period of initial application.
received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
U Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale Operations of the Group are recognised as discontinued operations if the operations have been disposed of or meet the criteria to be classied as held for sale.
Operations held for sale are held at the lower of their carrying amount on the dates they are classied as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
V Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of directors and unpaid at the period end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 51 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting Primary reporting format business segments Mecca Bingo Top Rank Espaa 2007 2006 2007 2006 restated restated m m m m Continuing operations Segment revenue 240.5 261.7 32.3 31.1 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 43.6 63.6 9.3 8.9 Exceptional operating profit costs 27.6 35.2 Segment result 16.0 98.8 9.3 8.9 Finance costs Finance income Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions Net return on dened benefit pension asset Other financial gains losses profit before taxation Taxation Loss profit for the year from continuing operations Assets and liabilities Intangible assets: Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 23.7 22.2 Intangible assets with nite useful lives 0.5 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 83.2 106.2 26.4 21.2 Financial assets investments Other segment assets 14.8 15.6 2.0 1.9 Total segment assets 98.5 122.4 52.1 45.3 Unallocated assets Total assets continuing operations Assets of disposal group held for sale see note 7 Total assets Total segment liabilities 50.9 38.1 5.4 7.1 Unallocated liabilities Total liabilities continuing operations Liabilities of disposal group held for sale see note 7 Total liabilities Net liabilities assets Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 19.8 16.3 4.5 5.5 Depreciation and amortisation 12.4 12.9 2.0 1.8 Impairment losses 25.7 8.6 At 31 December 2007, the Groups continuing operations are organised into six main business segments: Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa, Grosvenor Casinos, Blue Square, Gaming shared services and Other includes primarily central costs and expenses relating to non-trading properties.
The activities of the segments are described on page 2 of the Business review.
Segmental information for discontinued operations is disclosed in note 7.
Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments, inventories and trade and other receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise current and non-current trade and other payables and provisions.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise taxation, corporate borrowings, derivative financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents and retirement benets.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives include 53.8m of goodwill relating to Blue Square.
There are immaterial sales between the business segments.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets.
Details of the restatement to the 2006 comparatives are disclosed in note 39.
The home country of the Company is the UK.
The areas of operations are principally the operation of bingo clubs, casinos and on-line gaming and bookmaking services.
North Rest of UK Europe America the World Total Year ended 31 December 2007 m m m m m Total revenue 492.6 51.4 24.4 1.6 570.0 Less sales attributable to discontinued operations see note 7 3.6 6.0 24.4 1.6 35.6 Segment revenue from continuing operations 489.0 45.4 534.4 Other segment information Segment assets 317.8 72.2 3.1 393.1 Unallocated assets 216.9 Total assets 610.0 Capital expenditure relating to continuing operations 42.0 5.3 47.3 North Rest of UK Europe America the World Total Year ended 31 December 2006 m m m m m Total revenue 564.0 138.8 329.9 5.4 1,038.1 Less sales attributable to discontinued operations see note 7 58.7 94.5 329.9 5.4 488.5 Segment revenue from continuing operations 505.3 44.3 549.6 Other segment information Segment assets restated 359.2 61.3 26.4 446.9 Unallocated assets restated 178.6 Total assets continuing operations 625.5 Assets of disposal groups held for sale see note 7 242.0 Total assets 867.5 Capital expenditure relating to continuing operations 44.0 6.2 50.2 With the exception of the UK, Spain and USA 2006 only no individual country contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales or assets.
Segmental revenue by destination is not materially different from revenue by origin.
54 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 3 profit for the year The following items have been charged credited in arriving at profit for the year from continuing operations: 2007 2006 restated m m Employee benets expense see note 32 156.5 170.0 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 21.4 22.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets including 21.6m 2006: 21.7m within cost of sales 23.8 24.3 under finance leases included within cost of sales 1.1 1.1 Amortisation of intangibles including 0.5m 2006: 0.4m within cost of sales 3.6 3.5 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 40.8 34.5 sub-lease income 6.6 8.4 profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.2 Exceptional items see note 4 45.2 53.7 Auditors remuneration for audit services 0.7 1.0 The employee benefit expense has been restated for the reclassication of the net return on the pension asset to nancing.
In the year the Groups auditors,  LLP, including its network rms, earned the following fees: 2007 2006 m m Audit services Fees payable to Companys auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.4 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.6 services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.1 2.5 tax services 0.2 0.2 other services 0.1 0.1 1.1 3.8 69,000 2006: 68,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
It is the Groups policy to employ  LLP on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are important, principally in the areas of transaction services, stock exchange transactions and tax advice.
The Groups policy is, where appropriate, that work is put out to competitive tender.
The Audit Committee monitors the relationship with  LLP, including the level of non-audit fees.
4 Exceptional items 2007 2006 restated Note m m Exceptional items relating to continuing operations Impairment of clubs 33.9 8.6 Provision for onerous leases 27.7 Net profit on sale of property less associated closure costs 16.4 19.1 profit on sale and leaseback transaction 55.3 Loss on sale of investment 12.1 Exceptional items before nancing and taxation relating to continuing operations 45.2 53.7 Financing charge 14.7 Taxation 6 8.3 26.2 Exceptional items relating to continuing operations 36.9 65.2 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations Hard Rock 352.7 US Holidays 20.0 Financing charge 9.9 Taxation 6 27.4 3.0 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 315.4 17.0 Total exceptional items 278.5 48.2 The Groups denition of exceptional items is disclosed in note 1W.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 55 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Exceptional items continued 2007 exceptional items Continuing operations Following the introduction of the smoking ban in England and Wales, the loss of Section 21 machine income and the unexpected rise in Casino Duty, an impairment charge of 33.9m and associated onerous lease provisions of 20.8m have been recognised during the year.
Further details of the impairment are included in note 13.
During the year the Group closed 11 Mecca Bingo clubs and one Grosvenor casino.
The resulting profit on sale of certain of the properties, net of associated closure and disposal costs, was 16.4m.
The Group has a limited number of onerous leases at sites no longer used by the operating businesses.
The provision on these sites has been increased by 6.9m as a result of lower sub-let income and increased running costs.
Discontinued operations The Group completed the sale of Hard Rock on 5 March 2007 resulting in an exceptional profit of 352.7m before related nancing and taxation costs of 37.3m.
The exceptional nancing charge relates to the costs associated with the currency option taken to hedge the receipt of the US Dollar proceeds and the write off of prepaid facility fees.
Due to favourable movements in the exchange rate the currency option hedge was not utilised.
The profit arising includes cumulative foreign exchange losses of 8.6m and fair value gains of 44.4m in relation to available-for-sale securities.
These gains and losses had previously been recognised in equity.
Further details of the exceptional profit on disposal are contained in note 31.
2006 exceptional items Continuing operations During 2006, the Group completed a sale and leaseback and exit of surplus properties, for net proceeds of 171.9m.
The exceptional profit arising was 55.3m.
During 2006, the Group disposed of one Mecca Bingo club and the Clermont Casino for combined proceeds of 38.0m.
The exceptional profit arising on the disposals was 19.1m.
The Group incurred an exceptional loss of 12.1m on the disposal of its investment in Universal Studios Japan.
This loss had been previously recognised in reserves and was recycled in net profit on its realisation.
The Group recognised an impairment charge of 8.6m against the carrying value of certain Mecca Bingo clubs.
During the year, the Group incurred a 14.7m exceptional nancing charge on the early repayment of the US private placement, as a consequence of the renancing following the sale of its Deluxe businesses.
Discontinued operations On 15 December 2006 the Group disposed of its US Holidays business for proceeds equivalent to 16.8m.
The exceptional loss arising on disposal was 20.0m.
5 Financing 2007 2006 restated m m Continuing operations: Finance costs: Interest payable on bank borrowings current and non-current 2.6 3.0 Amortisation of issue costs of bank loan 1.6 1.8 Interest payable on other loans 21.8 29.3 Interest payable on finance leases 1.1 1.3 Unwinding of discounts in provisions 0.3 0.8 Total interest expense and similar charges 27.4 36.2 Finance income 5.3 3.2 22.1 33.0 Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond 3.6 3.0 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 1.3 Net return on dened benefit pension asset 10.5 6.7 Other financial gains losses 0.5 10.0 Total net nancing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 16.0 19.3 Exceptional nancing costs see note 4 14.7 Total net nancing cost for continuing operations 16.0 34.0 56 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 6 Taxation 2007 2006 restated m m Current income tax on continuing operations Current tax UK 22.7 0.3 Current tax overseas 5.2 5.6 Current tax charge 27.9 5.3 Current tax on exceptional items 8.3 9.7 Amounts under over provided in previous year 6.0 2.2 Total current tax 25.6 6.6 Deferred tax on continuing operations Deferred tax UK 10.5 0.7 Deferred tax overseas 0.4 1.4 Deferred tax on exceptional items 16.5 Restatement of deferred tax from 30% to 28% 3.4 Amounts over under provided in previous year 5.7 3.6 Total deferred tax 13.2 15.0 Tax charge credit in the income statement on continuing operations 12.4 21.6 In 2007 current tax on exceptional items within continuing operations includes a tax credit of 8.3m relating to the 27.7m onerous lease charge.
In 2006 current tax on exceptional items within continuing operations included a tax credit of 4.4m relating to exceptional nancing costs, a tax credit of 4.3m relating to transferred lease liabilities in respect of surplus properties and a 1.0m tax credit relating to the impairment charge.
In 2006 deferred tax on exceptional items included a tax credit of 11.4m which relates to the sale and leaseback of properties and 5.1m on the sale of the Clermont Club licence during the year.
The credits arose due to previously unrecognised losses.
2007 2006 m m Current income tax on discontinued operations Current tax UK 0.6 6.9 Current tax overseas 2.9 Current tax charge credit 0.6 4.0 Current tax on exceptional items 4.9 Amounts over under provided in previous year 0.3 1.4 Total current tax 4.6 2.6 Deferred tax on discontinued operations Deferred tax UK 2.2 Deferred tax overseas 3.8 Deferred tax on exceptional items 32.3 3.0 Amounts under provided in previous year 0.5 Total deferred tax 32.3 3.5 Tax charge in the income statement on discontinued operations 27.7 0.9 The tax on the Groups profit before tax on continuing operations differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2007 2006 m m profit before tax on continuing operations 7.1 92.9 profit before tax at 30% 2006: 30% 2.1 27.9 Effects of: Expenses income not subject to tax 11.0 12.9 Difference in overseas tax rates 1.1 0.5 Restatement of deferred tax from 30% to 28% 3.4 Adjustments relating to prior years 0.3 1.4 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 4.9 21.5 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.6 17.0 Tax charge credit in the income statement on continuing operations 12.4 21.6 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Taxation continued Tax on items included in equity 2007 2006 m m Current tax credit charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 4.6 21.7 Restatement of deferred tax on pensions from 30% to 28% 2.4 Deferred tax charge on actuarial gain on dened benefit pension scheme 7.4 17.4 Total tax in equity 0.4 39.1 There was no tax charge on the income from joint ventures and associates included in discontinued operations 2006: 0.2m credit.
The announced reduction in the headline UK Corporation Tax rate from 30% to 28% has resulted in a one off increase in the current year tax charge of 3.4m as the Group's UK deferred tax asset is restated based on the reduced rate.
An offsetting 2.4m credit has been recognised directly in equity in accordance with IAS 12.
7 Discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale The Group completed the sale of Hard Rock on 5 March 2007 resulting in an exceptional profit of 352.7m before related nancing and taxation costs of 37.3m.
The results, revenue and costs are recorded in a single line on a post-tax basis in the income statement.
A breakdown of the results of discontinued operations is shown below.
2007 2006 Deluxe Hard Hard US Media Deluxe Rock Rock Holidays Services Film Total m m m m m m Revenue 35.6 271.2 28.0 163.1 26.2 488.5 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 2.1 40.4 2.1 13.9 1.5 30.1 Exceptional items see note 4 352.7 20.0 20.0 Operating profit loss 354.8 40.4 17.9 13.9 1.5 10.1 Share of post-taxation loss income from joint ventures and associates 0.3 1.3 0.1 1.2 Net nancing charge including exceptional items 10.0 2.6 0.9 3.5 profit loss before taxation 344.5 36.5 17.9 14.8 1.6 5.4 Taxation including exceptional items 27.7 0.4 3.7 5.3 2.9 0.9 Net profit loss 316.8 36.9 21.6 9.5 1.3 4.5 Other segment information: Depreciation and amortisation 12.7 0.7 13.4 Capital expenditure 1.4 7.7 1.8 1.4 2.6 13.5 Cash ows relating to the discontinued operations are as follows: 2007 2006 Deluxe Hard Hard US Media Deluxe Rock Rock Holidays Services Film Total m m m m m m Cash ows from operating activities 0.3 45.0 3.0 53.0 18.5 7.5 Cash ows from investing activities 1.4 17.5 1.8 0.1 2.6 21.8 Cash ows from nancing activities 0.1 4.4 0.1 9.2 0.1 13.8 1.8 23.1 4.9 62.1 15.8 28.1 58 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 7 Discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued Assets and liabilities relating to the disposal group held for sale are as follows: 2006 Hard Rock m Intangible assets 6.6 Property, plant and equipment 105.2 Financial assets investments 52.2 Inventories 13.0 Receivables 65.0 Assets held for sale 242.0 Loan and capital borrowings 5.2 Payables due within one year 33.7 Provisions 4.6 Payables greater than one year reclassied as current 1.0 Liabilities held for sale 44.5 At 31 December 2006 the fair value less costs to sell of Hard Rock exceeded the carrying amount.
Immediately before classication as a disposal group the carrying amounts of all the assets and liabilities were measured in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Following classication as held for sale, assets are not depreciated.
This had the effect to increase Hard Rock 2007 operating profit by 2.0m and reduce the profit arising on sale of Hard Rock by 2.0m.
8 Results attributable to the parent company The loss for the financial year in the financial statements of The Rank Group Plc was 18.8m 2006: 25.2m.
As permitted by s230 Companies Act 1985, no income statement is presented in respect of The Rank Group Plc.
9 Dividends 2007 2006 m m Equity ordinary Final for 2006 paid on 11 May 2007 4.0p 2005: 10.3p per share 15.6 62.6 Special for 2007 paid on 9 April 2007 65.0p 2006: nil per share 352.5 Interim for 2007 paid on 12 October 2007 2.0p 2006: 2.0p per share 7.8 11.5 375.9 74.1 Following the sale of Hard Rock, a special dividend of 65.0 pence per share was paid on 9 April 2007.
The directors have not proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 2006 4.0p.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Earnings loss per share a Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding Ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares note 25.
2007 2006 restated Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total profit loss attributable to equity shareholders m Continuing operations 31.6m 36.9 m 5.3 m 49.3m 65.2m 114.5m Discontinued operations 1.4m 315.4m 316.8m 19.7m 17.0 m 2.7m Total 33.0m 278.5m 311.5m 69.0m 48.2m 117.2m Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue m 430.4m 430.4m 430.4m 587.5m 587.5m 587.5m Basic earnings loss per share p Continuing operations 7.3p 8.5 p 1.2 p 8.4p 11.1p 19.5p Discontinued operations 0.4p 73.2p 73.6p 3.4p 3.0 p 0.4p Total 7.7p 64.7p 72.4p 11.8p 8.1p 19.9p b Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares.
The Group has two categories of dilutive potential Ordinary shares: share options and convertible debt.
For share options, a calculation is made to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscriptions rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of shares calculated is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming exercise of the share options.
The convertible debt was not dilutive in either year.
There is no difference in the profit loss used to determine diluted earnings per share from that used to determine basic earnings per share above.
2007 2006 restated Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue m 430.4m 430.4m 430.4m 587.5m 587.5m 587.5m Adjustment for share options m 0.5m 0.5m 0.5m Weighted average number of Ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share m 430.4m 430.4m 430.4m 588.0m 588.0m 588.0m Diluted earnings loss per share p Continuing operations 7.3p 8.5 p 1.2 p 8.4p 11.1p 19.5p Discontinued operations 0.4p 73.2p 73.6p 3.4p 3.0 p 0.4p Total 7.7p 64.7p 72.4p 11.8p 8.1p 19.9p c Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings is calculated by adjusting profit attributable to equity shareholders to exclude discontinued operations, exceptional items, other financial gains losses, the net return on the dened benefit pension asset, unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions, amortisation of the equity component of the convertible bond and the related tax effects.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that adjusted earnings assists in providing a view of the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: 2007 2006 restated m m profit attributable to equity shareholders 311.5 117.2 Discontinued operations net of taxation and minority interest 316.8 2.7 Exceptional items before tax on continuing operations 45.2 39.0 Other nancials gains losses 0.5 10.0 Net return on dened benefit pension asset 10.5 6.7 Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond 3.6 3.0 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 1.3 Taxation on adjusted items and impact of reduction in tax rate to 28% 1.8 35.0 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders 32.0 26.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue m 430.4m 587.5m Adjusted earnings per share p 7.4p 4.6p 60 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 11 Intangible assets Casino Blue and other Square gaming Goodwill licences Other Total Group m m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 as published 53.8 114.2 28.1 196.1 Prior year restatement 13.9 13.9 At 1 January 2006 restated 53.8 128.1 28.1 210.0 Exchange adjustments 0.4 1.0 1.4 Additions 4.0 4.0 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Businesses disposed 16.6 0.1 16.7 Fair value adjustments 0.4 0.1 0.5 Classied as held for sale 7.0 7.0 At 31 December 2006 restated 53.8 110.7 23.2 187.7 Exchange adjustments 2.9 2.9 Additions 2.3 4.2 6.5 At 31 December 2007 53.8 115.9 27.4 197.1 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2006 17.9 17.9 Exchange adjustments 0.9 0.9 Charge for the period 3.8 3.8 Impairment losses 0.5 0.5 Disposals 0.5 0.5 Classied as held for sale 6.3 6.3 At 31 December 2006 14.5 14.5 Charge for the period 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2007 18.1 18.1 Net book value at 31 December 2006 as published 53.8 96.8 8.7 159.3 Net book value at 31 December 2006 restated 53.8 110.7 8.7 173.2 Net book value at 31 December 2007 53.8 115.9 9.3 179.0 Other intangible assets comprise other licences, computer software and development technology and customer lists.
These include internally generated computer software and development technology with a net book value of 1.3m 2006: 1.5m.
indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 13.
The 2006 comparatives have been restated to reect the transfer of 13.9m of assets from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets as if it had taken place on 1 January 2006.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, ttings, Land and plant & Assets in buildings machinery construction Total Group m m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 as published 473.0 396.2 2.0 871.2 Prior year restatement 13.9 13.9 At 1 January 2006 restated 473.0 382.3 2.0 857.3 Exchange adjustments 17.1 14.3 0.3 31.7 Reclassication 1.0 0.3 0.7 Additions at cost 7.0 47.1 1.2 55.3 Disposals 162.5 28.7 191.2 Property, plant and equipment write off 6.0 0.8 6.8 Classied as held for sale 126.3 89.7 0.9 216.9 Businesses disposed 24.5 27.8 1.3 53.6 At 31 December 2006 restated 144.6 267.8 412.4 Exchange adjustments 0.8 3.2 4.0 Additions at cost 5.5 37.9 43.4 Disposals 12.4 11.6 24.0 At 31 December 2007 138.5 297.3 435.8 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2006 148.3 242.0 390.3 Exchange adjustments 8.5 9.8 18.3 Reclassication 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year 10.9 27.7 38.6 Impairment losses 3.3 6.0 9.3 Property, plant and equipment write off 6.0 0.8 6.8 Businesses disposed 18.5 24.3 42.8 Disposals 26.2 23.8 50.0 Classied as held for sale 56.7 55.0 111.7 At 31 December 2006 47.7 160.9 208.6 Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.5 1.6 Reclassication 0.2 0.2 Charge for the year 3.8 21.1 24.9 Impairment losses see note 13 15.1 18.8 33.9 Disposals 2.6 9.8 12.4 At 31 December 2007 64.3 192.3 256.6 Net book value at 31 December 2006 as published 96.9 120.8 217.7 Net book value at 31 December 2006 restated 96.9 106.9 203.8 Net book value at 31 December 2007 74.2 105.0 179.2 The 2006 comparatives have been restated to reect the transfer of 13.9m of assets from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets as if it had taken place on 1 January 2006.
Assets held under finance leases, capitalised and included in land and buildings and xtures, ttings, plant and machinery: 2007 2006 m m Cost 20.5 20.6 Accumulated depreciation 10.9 9.6 Net book value 9.6 11.0 The book amounts for xtures, ttings, plant and machinery include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 0.2m 2006: 0.3m.
The book amounts for land and buildings include buildings held under finance leases with a net book value of 9.4m 2006: 10.7m.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: 2007 2006 m m Freeholds 24.6 41.8 Long leases over 50 years unexpired 3.4 1.6 Short leases 46.2 53.5 Net book value 74.2 96.9 62 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 13 Impairment review Impairment review of intangible assets with indefinite lives As stated in the accounting policies note sections K and L assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The Group classies goodwill and casino and other gaming licences as indefinite life assets.
a Goodwill Blue Square The Group has goodwill with a carrying value of 53.8m in respect of the acquisition of Blue Square 2006: 53.8m.
As at 31 December 2007 management does not believe that the carrying value of the Blue Square goodwill was impaired as the value in use signicantly exceeded the carrying value of goodwill.
The whole of Blue Square is treated as a single cash-generating unit and is tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following two years from the Groups Business Plan which was also approved by the Board.
A 2% growth rate was applied thereafter.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash ow projections is 9.4% 2006: 11.3%.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation of value in use for Blue Square is most sensitive to the following assumptions: settled stakes: gross win margins: and discount rates.
Settled stakes are based on monies placed by customers for the sportsbook and gaming businesses.
Management takes into account the product mix, major sporting events and industry developments when determining settled stakes.
Gross win margins are based on values achieved in the past and amended for any anticipated changes in the budget period.
Discount rates reect managements estimate of the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Management believes that the Groups weighted average cost of capital is an appropriate measure as there is no funding directly attributable to that group of assets.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value in use of Blue Square, there are possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
These are discussed below: settled stakes may be affected by a decrease in customers, a decrease in marketing spend, a change in technology, competition or regulatory changes: and gross win margins may be affected by the results of sporting events, odds setting or by changes in legislation to the gaming industry.
Changes in either key assumption impacts gross win, which is calculated by applying the win margin to stakes placed.
If gross win were to decrease by in excess of 65% each year the value in use would equal the carrying value of the cash-generating unit.
b Casino and other gaming licences Grosvenor Casinos The inherent value of casino licences is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of the operation of casinos as a whole and is not therefore split out from total casino assets in an impairment review.
The cost of casino licences as at 31 December 2007 was 92.2m 2006 restated : 88.5m and management does not believe that there is any impairment.
Each Grosvenor casino has been treated as a separate cash-generating unit, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Grosvenor casino, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use has been calculated using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following two years from the Groups Business Plan which was also approved by the Board.
A long term growth rate of 2% was applied thereafter.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash ow projections is 9.4% 2006: 11.3%.
Any impairment is allocated equally across all assets in a cash-generating unit unless a fair market value exists for one or more assets.
Once an asset has been written down to its fair value less costs to sell then any remaining impairment is allocated equally amongst all other assets.
Casino and other gaming licences are generally not impaired as they have an indefinite life and a fair market value in excess of their carrying value.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The calculation of the value in use of a casino licence is most sensitive to the following assumptions: admissions: spend per head: rate of casino duty: discount rate: and competition.
Admissions are the number of discrete visits by members to the casino and have been based on historic trends adjusted for the introduction of advertising.
Spend per head comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent by a member on gaming tables, machines and food and beverages.
This has been determined by historic trends.
Casino duty is levied in bands of between 15% and 50% depending upon the level of gaming win at each casino.
The bands and rates have been assumed to remain at current levels without indexation.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Impairment review continued Discount rate reects managements estimate of the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Competition comprises other casinos located in the same geographic area.
The impact of this has been assessed by individual location.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With regard to the assessment of value in use of casino licences, there are possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of individual licences to exceed their recoverable amount.
These are discussed below: competition from licences granted under the Gambling Act 2005 and 1968 Gaming Act could vary depending upon the number and location of new casinos as well as the date of opening: admission levels could vary as a result of general economic conditions and the impact of advertising and membership reward programmes: and spend per head may be impacted by the number of new members, changes in gaming legislation and macro economic conditions.
Management does not believe that there are any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions that would result in a material impairment of a casino licence.
c Spanish bingo licences The inherent value of Spanish bingo licences are deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of the operations as a whole and not therefore split out from Spanish bingo assets in an impairment review.
The cost of Spanish bingo licences as at 31 December 2007 was 23.7m 2006: 22.2m.
Each individual bingo club has been created as a separate cash-generating unit, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following two years from the Groups Business Plan which was also approved by the Board.
A long term growth rate of 3% was applied thereafter.
The discount rate was the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, which is consistent with other value in use calculations.
Impairment review of property, plant and equipment As stated in the accounting policies note section L if the carrying value of the Groups property, plant and equipment is higher than the estimated recoverable amount the value of those assets is written down.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are grouped into cash-generating units which are dened as individual clubs for Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa and Grosvenor Casinos and the whole of the operation for Blue Square.
The key assumptions and sensitivities in the impairment reviews for casino assets and other gaming licences are set out above.
Recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, which is calculated using cash ow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year along with projections for the following two years from the Groups Business Plan which was also approved by the Board.
A long term growth rate of 2% was applied thereafter to Mecca Bingo, Grosvenor Casinos, Blue Square and 3% to Top Rank Espaa.
The key assumption in the impairment review for Mecca Bingo is the continued impact of the smoking ban implemented in England and Wales in 2007 and the loss of Section 21 gaming terminals.
Management believes that the introduction of a smoking ban has resulted in a step change reduction in admissions and income levels.
Revenues are not expected to return to pre ban levels in the short term and it is assumed that income will grow at the long term trend rates detailed above.
The cash ows generated by each club are driven by a large number of factors including competition, economic conditions, ability to generate new players and retain existing players.
In the event that income levels reduce at individual clubs beyond expectations then further impairments may be required.
2007 Mecca Bingo In 2007 an impairment charge of 25.7m has been recognised in respect of a number of clubs where the estimated cash ows associated with those clubs were less than the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment.
The impact from the smoking bans in the UK and the loss of Section 21 gaming terminals has been more severe than management had anticipated.
As a consequence, in certain clubs it has also been necessary to make onerous lease provisions amounting to 19.1m.
Grosvenor Casinos In 2007 an impairment charge of 8.2m has been recognised in respect of a limited number of casinos where the effects of the smoking ban, increased competition and changes in casino duty levels has resulted in estimated cash ows that are lower than the carrying value of property, plant and equipment.
An onerous lease provision of 1.7m has also been made.
2006 Mecca Bingo In 2006 an impairment charge of 8.6m was recognised in respect of a number of clubs where the estimated cash ows associated with those clubs were less than the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment.
Blue Square The operations of the Blue Square betting shop were disposed on 24 August 2006.
Prior to the disposal its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment were impaired by 1.2m.
64 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 14 Investments Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Investments in subsidiaries 1,343.6 1,343.6 Financial assets available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.5 Total investments 0.1 0.5 1,343.6 1,343.6 Available-for-sale financial assets comprise 0.1m 2006: 0.5m in respect of UK listed equity investments, which by their nature have no xed maturity date or coupon rate.
The fair value of the listed equity shares has been estimated using valuation guidelines based on market prices.
A fair value loss of 0.4m has been recognised in equity 2006: nil.
Investments in subsidiaries Company A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 40.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost of 1,515.6m 2006: 1,515.6m less provision for impairment of 172.0m 2006: 172.0m.
15 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the year is as follows: Group 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax assets Accelerated capital allowances 38.0 32.5 Tax losses carried forward 24.2 10.1 Deferred tax assets 62.2 42.6 Deferred tax liabilities Pensions 29.1 10.6 Other overseas timing differences 7.8 7.8 Business combinations non-qualifying properties 2.5 3.3 Other UK timing differences 16.8 18.9 Deferred tax liabilities 56.2 40.6 Net deferred tax asset 6.0 2.0 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 48.3m 2006: 32.9m have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax asset 13.5 9.7 Deferred tax liability 7.5 7.7 Net deferred tax asset 6.0 2.0 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets at 31 December 2007 2006: 60.4m.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2007, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2006: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries as: the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date: and there are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
The Company has a deferred tax asset of nil 2006: 0.2m.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 65 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Deferred tax continued The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 5.5 14.1 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.6 11.9 Tax losses 14.8 1.6 Other timing differences 10.4 12.9 Total deferred tax expense credit 19.1 11.5 Deferred tax expense on discontinued operations 32.3 3.5 Deferred tax credit on continuing operations 13.2 15.0 Total deferred tax expense credit 19.1 11.5 Deferred tax on discontinued operations includes deferred tax charges on tax losses of 32.3m 2006: credit of 5.0m, other timing differences of nil 2006: charge of 8.7m and on accelerated capital allowances of nil 2006: credit of 0.2m.
The above numbers are shown net of the deferred tax charge of 3.4m resulting from the reduction in the headline UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%.
The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Net deferred tax asset at 1 January 2.0 62.5 Exchange adjustments 0.8 6.6 Deferred tax expense credit 19.1 11.5 Deferred tax on items included in equity 5.0 21.2 Businesses disposed 0.6 Classied from as held for sale 28.9 43.6 Net deferred tax asset at 31 December 6.0 2.0 16 Inventories Group 2007 2006 m m Raw materials 0.3 0.5 Finished goods 3.1 3.8 3.4 4.3 The Group wrote down nil 2006: nil of inventories.
17 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Current Trade receivables 1.8 20.8 Less: provisions for impairment of trade receivables 0.9 1.0 Trade receivables net 0.9 19.8 Other receivables 12.7 17.4 0.6 Prepayments and accrued income 16.3 19.5 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 43.6 43.7 29.9 56.7 43.6 44.3 Non-current Other receivables 1.5 8.4 1.5 8.4 66 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 17 Trade and other receivables continued The carrying values of trade receivables are assumed to approximate to their fair values due to the short term nature of trade receivables.
As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables of 0.9m 2006: 1.0m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 0.9m 2006: 1.0m.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Up to 3 months 3 to 6 months Over 6 months 0.9 1.0 0.9 1.0 As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables of 0.3m 2006: 3.9m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Up to 3 months 0.2 3.6 3 to 6 months 0.3 Over 6 months 0.1 0.3 3.9 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2007 2006 m m UK Sterling 0.8 1.7 Euro 0.1 US Dollar 18.1 0.9 19.8 The movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 1.0 0.2 Provision for receivables impairment 0.3 0.8 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.4 At 31 December 0.9 1.0 The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
18 Trade and other payables current Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Trade payables 17.9 28.0 Other tax and social security payable 8.3 9.5 Other payables 54.8 54.5 Accruals 17.2 30.1 2.0 1.8 Deferred consideration 3.0 0.1 Pension fund creditor see note 34 2.6 3.0 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 523.2 131.5 103.8 125.2 525.2 133.3 19 Current tax liabilities Group 2007 2006 m m Corporation tax payable 5.4 2.3 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 67 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities comprise the following: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Bank overdrafts 3.5 8.2 Derivative financial instruments see note 22 2.5 4.2 US$100m @ 6.375% Yankee bonds 2008 49.8 49.5 US$14.3m @ 7.125% Yankee bonds 2018 7.2 7.3 167.7m @ 3.875% convertible unsecured loan stock 2009 net of unamortised facility fees and equity component 163.1 158.7 163.1 158.7 Multi currency syndicated loan facilities 150.0 282.4 Other including accrued interest and unamortised facility fees 3.5 1.5 2.9 2.7 Obligations under finance leases 14.6 16.7 Financial guarantees 1.3 1.1 394.2 525.5 167.3 162.5 Bank overdrafts 3.5 8.2 Other borrowings repayable: Within one year or on demand 59.7 5.2 4.2 3.8 Between one and two years 163.9 292.5 163.1 Between two and five years 149.9 201.0 158.7 In five years or more 17.2 18.6 394.2 525.5 167.3 162.5 Current 63.2 13.4 4.2 3.8 Non-current 331.0 512.1 163.1 158.7 394.2 525.5 167.3 162.5 Unsecured convertible bond 163.1 158.7 163.1 158.7 Other unsecured borrowings 216.5 350.1 2.9 2.7 Obligations under finance leases secured see note 35 14.6 16.7 Financial guarantees 1.3 1.1 394.2 525.5 167.3 162.5 Undrawn borrowing facilities At 31 December 2007 the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities available of 250.0m 2006: 367.6m in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date.
These facilities expire in 2012 and pay interest at oating rates.
The analysis of other borrowings repayable includes 163.1m of convertible bonds 2006: 158.7m.
The bond is due in 2009 and is convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Ordinary shares at 3.5167 2006: 3.764 per share.
Interest is paid half yearly in January and July.
The effective interest rate on the liability portion of the bond is 4.2%.
None of the bonds were converted during the year.
If the conversion rights attached to the bonds outstanding at 31 December 2007 were exercised, 47.7m Ordinary shares would fall to be issued 2006: 44.6m.
Unless previously redeemed or converted, the bonds will be redeemed at par in 2009.
Included in other borrowings repayable are the drawings of 150.0m on the syndicated bank facility 2006: 282.4m.
The facility was negotiated on 14 April 2007 and consists of a 150.0m term loan and a 250.0m revolving credit facility.
Both the term loan and the revolving credit facility expire in April 2012.
Interest is payable on a monthly basis.
All amounts outstanding at 31 December 2007 were drawn in UK Sterling.
Also included in other borrowings is $114.3m 57.0m 2006: $114.3m 56.8m of Yankee bonds, of which $100.0m matured in January 2008 and $14.3m matures in 2018.
Interest is payable half yearly in January and July.
The analysis of other borrowings repayable above includes obligations under finance leases, of which 0.9m 2006: 1.7m expire within one year, 0.7m 2006: 0.8m expire between one and two years, 2.5m 2006: 2.6m expire between two and five years, and 10.5m 2006: 11.6m expire after five years.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain a broad portfolio of debt, diversied by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate changes and to contractual repricing dates at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Six months or less 153.5 290.6 68 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 20 Financial liabilities continued The carrying amounts and fair value of non-current borrowings are as follows: Net carrying amount Fair value 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Short term financial liabilities and current portion of long term borrowings 60.7 10.8 60.7 10.8 Derivative financial instrument liabilities 2.5 2.6 2.5 2.6 Current 63.2 13.4 63.2 13.4 Bank borrowings 150.0 282.4 150.0 282.4 US Dollar bonds 7.2 56.8 7.2 58.4 Convertible bond 163.1 158.7 167.7 167.7 Finance leases 14.6 15.0 14.6 15.0 Other 3.9 0.8 3.9 0.8 Non-current 331.0 512.1 335.6 522.7 The fair value of the current borrowings equals their carrying amount.
The current borrowings matured in January 2008 and therefore the impact of discounting is not considered significant.
The fair value of the guarantees issued by the Company is 1.3m 2006: 1.1m.
This is calculated by applying the Companys probability of default, derived from the Companys credit rating, to the 31 December 2007 drawn debt of subsidiaries guaranteed by the Company.
21 Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash ow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group treasury identies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specic areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro and the US Dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed primarily through the matching of borrowings to assets and by the purchase of derivatives denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
Group policy is to hedge 90% of identied exposures.
At 31 December 2007, if the US Dollar had weakened strengthened by 4.7% against UK Sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2.3m higher 2.6m lower 2006: 20.4m higher 18.5m lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of US Dollar denominated borrowings.
Included in the 20.4m 18.5m movements in 2006 is 17.1m higher 15.5m lower relating to the currency option contracted in December 2006 to hedge the proceeds from the sale of Hard Rock.
profit is less sensitive to movement in US Dollar exchange rates in 2008 than 2007 because of the decreased amount of US Dollar denominated borrowings.
The majority of US Dollar denominated borrowings matured in January 2008.
Equity would have been unchanged 2006: nil higher lower arising mainly from foreign exchange losses gains on translation of US Dollar denominated debt and net investment hedges.
At 31 December 2007, if the Euro had weakened strengthened by 2.2% against UK Sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 0.5m 2006: 2.0m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of Euro denominated borrowings.
Equity would have been 1.5m higher lower 2006: 1.5m higher lower arising mainly from foreign exchange losses gains on translation of quasi equity hedges.
ii Cash ow and fair value interest rate risk As the Group has no significant interest bearing assets, the Groups income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Its only interest bearing assets are cash and cash equivalents which earn oating rate interest.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at xed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain approximately 60% of its borrowings in xed rate instruments using interest rate swaps to achieve this when necessary.
At 31 December 2007 45% of the Groups debt was held in xed rate borrowings 2006: 52%.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 69 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial risk management continued During 2007 and 2006, the Groups borrowings at variable rate were denominated in US Dollar and UK Sterling.
The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis.
Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration renancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative nancing and hedging.
Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on profit and loss of a dened interest rate shift.
For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used for all currencies.
The scenarios are run only for liabilities that represent the major interest bearing positions.
Based on the simulations performed, the impact on profit or loss of a 60 basispoint shift would be a maximum increase of 0.9m 2006: 1.0m or decrease of 0.9m 2006: 1.0m, respectively.
Based on the various scenarios, the Group manages its cash ow interest rate risk by using oating-to-xed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from oating rates to xed rates.
Generally, the Group raises long-term borrowings at oating rates and swaps them into xed rates that are lower than those available if the Group borrowed at xed rates directly.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals primarily half yearly, the difference between xed contract rates and oating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
Occasionally the Group also enters into xed-to-oating interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk arising where it has borrowed at xed rates in excess of the 60% target.
b Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures on outstanding receivables.
The Group only deals with banks and financial institutions with which they have a lending or advisory relationship.
The creditworthiness of each counterparty is checked against independent credit ratings with a minimum rating of A accepted.
An internal rating is then allocated and an individual credit limit is set in accordance with limits set by the Board.
Management reviews the ratings and the utilisation of credit limits on a regular basis.
Sales to retail customers are settled in cash or using major credit cards.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any losses from non-performance of its counterparties.
Cash Derivatives Total 2007 m m m AA 39.6 0.6 40.2 A 17.6 17.6 Cash oats 14.9 14.9 Cash, cash equivalents and derivative assets 72.1 0.6 72.7 Cash Derivatives Total 2006 m m m AA 49.3 9.5 58.8 A 18.6 18.6 Cash oats 15.7 15.7 Cash, cash equivalents and derivative assets 83.6 9.5 93.1 The counterparties to the forward foreign exchange contracts, cross currency swaps, currency option and term deposits are major international financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group continually monitors its positions and the credit ratings of its counterparties.
The Group is exposed to 7.4m 2006: 155.8m of credit risk on derivative fair value assets and 73.0m 2006: 103.4m on trade receivables and cash, should the counterparty default.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced regularly.
The cash forecasts are sensitivity tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12 month period.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain exibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
A four year strategic forecast is prepared annually to facilitate planning for future nancing needs.
Management actively manages its nancing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The Group has committed nancing facilities until 2012, of which 250.0m 2006: 367.6m was undrawn at 31 December 2007.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain, as far as practicable, a broad portfolio of debt diversied by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
70 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 Financial risk management continued The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 1 year and 2 years and 5 years years At 31 December 2007 m m m m Borrowings 63.2 172.1 154.0 20.2 Derivative financial instruments net settled 126.8 Derivative financial instruments gross settled 39.7 Trade and other payables 103.8 0.5 333.5 172.6 154.0 20.2 At 31 December 2006 m m m m Borrowings 11.2 294.3 213.7 21.3 Derivative financial instruments net settled 232.4 Derivative financial instruments gross settled 3.5 Trade and other payables 125.2 1.4 372.3 295.7 213.7 21.3 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of its leverage ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents, less accrued interest, less unamortised facility fees and amounts relating to discontinued operations.
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items plus depreciation and amortisation.
During 2007, the Groups long term strategy, which was unchanged from 2006, was to maintain a leverage ratio of 3.5-4.0 times in order to secure access to finance at a reasonable cost by maintaining a BB credit rating.
The leverage ratios at 31 December 2007 and 2006 were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Total borrowings see note 20 394.2 525.5 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 72.1 83.6 Less: Derivatives 2.5 4.2 Less: Accrued interest 6.5 0.7 Less: Unamortised facility fees 3.8 5.0 Less: Discontinued operations 5.2 Net debt 316.9 447.2 Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptionals 68.3 73.2 Add: Operating profit from discontinued operations before exceptionals 2.1 30.1 Add: Depreciation and amortisation continuing operations 28.5 28.9 Add: Depreciation and amortisation discontinued operations 13.4 Add: Reversal of profit restatement due to change in accounting policies 4.2 EBITDA 98.9 149.8 Leverage ratio 3.2 3.0 The increase in the leverage ratio during 2007 resulted primarily from the repayment of debt following the sale of Hard Rock.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term bonds.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of quoted borrowings is based on year-end mid-market quoted prices.
The fair values of other borrowings and the derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash ows to net present value using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year-end.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 71 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instruments A description of the policies relating to financial instruments is set out in note 1G.
a Fair values The carrying value of derivative financial assets at 31 December 2007 was 0.6m 2006: 9.5m and is considered to equal their fair value.
The impact of discounting is not considered significant as the derivatives matured in January 2008. b Financial derivative instruments 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Cross currency swap inter-company loan hedge held for trading 4.3 2.5 Cross currency swap quasi equity hedge 1.8 Cross currency swap cash ow hedge 0.3 Interest rate swap fair value hedge 0.5 1.6 Interest rate cap and collar held for trading 0.2 Forward exchange contract net investment hedge 1.4 Forward exchange contract inter-company loan hedge held for trading 0.4 Forward exchange contract cash ow hedge 0.2 0.3 Forward foreign exchange contract held for trading 0.1 0.1 Fair value of derivative used to hedge ows from continuing operations 0.6 2.5 6.4 4.2 Currency option cash ow hedge 3.1 Total 0.6 2.5 9.5 4.2 Less non-current portion 1.6 Current portion 0.6 2.5 9.5 2.6 There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded for the fair value, net investment, quasi equity or cash ow hedges.
The nominal values of derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2007 were: 2007 m US$m m Cross currency swap cash ow hedge 78.0 Interest rate swap fair value hedge 100.0 Forward exchange contract net investment hedge 95.0 Forward exchange contract inter-company loan hedge held for trading 28.0 Forward exchange contract cash ow hedge 75.0 2006 m US$m m Cross currency swap inter-company loan hedge held for trading 128.0 138.0 Cross currency swap quasi equity hedge 98.0 Interest rate swap fair value hedge 100.0 Interest rate cap and collar held for trading 50.0 Forward foreign exchange contract held for trading 1.0 1.0 Currency option cash ow hedge 675.0 c Fair value hedge The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2007 was US$100.0m 2006: US$100.0m.
The interest rate swaps hedged the interest due on the 2008 Yankee bonds.
The gain on the fair value hedge instrument was 1.1m 2006: 0.8m.
The loss on the underlying 2008 Yankee bond was 1.1m 2006: 0.8m.
d Cash ow hedges The Group entered into a series of currency forwards and cross currency swaps to hedge the repayment of US Dollar debt and interest due in January 2008.
The nominal value of the derivatives at 31 December 2007 is $103.0m 2006: nil with a fair value of 0.4 m 2006: nil.
The cash ows and profit and loss entries occurred in January 2008 on maturity of the 2008 Yankee bonds.
At 31 December 2006 the Group entered into a currency option to hedge the receipt of the US Dollar proceeds from the sale of Hard Rock which completed in March 2007.
The nominal value of the option at 31 December 2006 was $675.0m with a fair value of 3.1m.
Due to the exchange rate prevailing at the date of sale of Hard Rock being favourable to the option rate the option was not utilised.
The reversal of the fair value booked at 31 December 2006 is included as an exceptional nancing cost within discontinued operations.
72 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 22 Financial instruments continued e Quasi equity hedges The Group has hedged the translation risk on its quasi equity inter-company loans using a series of cross currency swaps.
The nominal value of the swaps at 31 December 2007 was nil 2006: 98m, with a net fair value of nil 2006: 1.8m.
f Derivatives held for trading The retranslation of the inter-company loan balances across the Group are hedged using a series of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps.
The nominal value of the swaps at 31 December 2007 was $nil and 28m 2006: $128m and 138m, with a net fair value of 0.4m 2006: 1.8m.
The hedges matured in January 2008.
There were 0.5 m derivatives outstanding at the balance sheet date that were designated as fair value hedges 2006: 1.6 m, relating to interest rate swaps.
These matured in January 2008. g Net investment hedges A proportion of the Groups US Dollar denominated borrowings amounting to $nil 2006: $429.3m is designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Groups US subsidiaries.
The foreign exchange profit of nil 2006: 1.0m on translation of the borrowing at the balance sheet date is recognised in the exchange translation reserve, in shareholders equity.
The Group has hedged the translation risk on its Euro denominated assets using a series of forward foreign currency contracts.
The nominal value of the contracts at 31 December 2007 was 95m 2006: nil, with a net fair value of 1.4 m 2006: nil.
23 Other non-current liabilities Group 2007 2006 m m UK corporation tax and overseas taxation 31.5 31.5 Deferred consideration 0.5 0.9 Accruals 0.5 32.0 32.9 The UK corporation tax and overseas taxation primarily relates to transfer pricing issues on discontinued operations in overseas jurisdictions and tax planning that has been challenged by the relevant tax authority.
The liability represents managements current estimate of the payments that will be required to settle the various issues.
24 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Disposal provisions Onerous leases Deluxe Hard Rock Other Total Group m m m m m At 1 January 2007 7.2 46.3 0.6 54.1 Charged to the income statement exceptional 27.7 26.0 53.7 Utilised in year 1.7 12.0 15.3 29.0 Transferred 0.6 0.6 Unwinding of discount 0.3 1.3 1.6 At 31 December 2007 33.5 36.2 10.7 80.4 Current 3.9 6.1 10.4 20.4 Non-current 29.6 30.1 0.3 60.0 Total 33.5 36.2 10.7 80.4 The maturity prole of provisions is as follows: 2007 m m m m m Within one year 3.9 6.1 10.4 20.4 Between one and two years 3.0 3.6 0.3 6.9 Between two and five years 6.0 13.0 19.0 Over five years 20.6 13.5 34.1 Total 33.5 36.2 10.7 80.4 2006 m m m m m Within one year 1.6 10.5 0.6 12.7 Between one and two years 1.2 35.8 37.0 Between two and five years 2.3 2.3 Over five years 2.1 2.1 Total 7.2 46.3 0.6 54.1 Provisions have been discounted at a risk free interest rate of 5% where the effects of ination will have a material impact.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 73 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued Onerous leases The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash ows derived from the property and its associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
These leases have an unexpired life of between 10 and 57 years.
Disposal provisions The disposal provisions held at 31 December 2007 consist of the following: Deluxe Hard Rock Total m m m Onerous leases 24.6 24.6 Other 11.6 10.7 22.3 At 31 December 2007 36.2 10.7 46.9 Following the sale and closure of our Deluxe operations, two property leases have been retained in the Group.
One of these relates to a significant plant in the US which is currently unoccupied.
The lease expires in 2021 and the provision has been calculated on the assumption that no sub-lease will be obtained.
Provision has also been made for outstanding insurance claims, warranty provisions for potential claims and other directly attributable costs arising as a consequence of the sale or closure of the businesses.
The timing of any insurance and warranty claims are uncertain and have therefore been included in the maturity analysis based on managements best estimates.
Company The legal provision held at 1 January 2007 of 0.6m was transferred to the Deluxe disposal provision.
25 Share capital 2007 Authorised 2006 Authorised Nominal Nominal Number value Number value mm mm Ordinary shares of 13 8 9p each 2006: 10p each 1,296.0 180.0 1,800.0 180.0 2007 2006 Issued and fully paid Issued and fully paid Nominal Nominal Number value Number value mm mm At 1 January 542.4 54.2 626.0 62.6 Share buy-back 86.5 8.6 Shares issued in the year 2.9 0.2 Share consolidation 18 Ordinary 13 8 9p each for 25 Ordinary 10p each 151.9 At 31 December 390.5 54.2 542.4 54.2 During the year 18,324 Ordinary shares of 10p each and 19,674 Ordinary shares of 13 8 9p were issued with a combined nominal value of 4,565.
1,059,826 2006: 202,852 Ordinary shares in the Company are held by the Rank Group Employee benefit Trust the Trust.
These owned shares are deducted from equity in accordance with IAS 32 and not disclosed as an investment.
Dividends on the shares held by the Trust have been waived by the trustees with the exception of one penny in respect of each dividend that is paid by the Company.
The Trust may make such investments in the shares of the Company or otherwise as the trustees may determine to provide benets to any eligible employee.
The benets may be provided in the form of shares, cash or otherwise, although any share-related benefit will be provided in accordance with an appropriate employee share scheme or bonus scheme of the Company.
The shares held by the Trust represent less than 0.3% of the Companys called-up share capital.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2007 was 1.0m 2006: 0.5m.
Share consolidation In conjunction with the special dividend payment disclosed in note 9, shareholders received 18 new Rank shares for every 25 existing Rank shares held on 23 March 2007.
Apart from having a different nominal value, each new Rank share carries the same rights as are set out in the Articles of Association for each existing Rank share prior to the share consolidation taking place.
74 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 26 Statement of changes in shareholders equity Exchange Share Share Capital translation Other capital premium redemption reserve reserves Total Minority Total Group m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2006 62.6 93.1 24.8 23.8 47.6 156.7 11.4 168.1 Exchange adjustments net of tax 28.3 28.3 1.0 29.3 Actuarial gain on dened benefit pension scheme net of tax 64.7 64.7 64.7 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities 22.8 22.8 22.8 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities recycled within net profit 12.1 12.1 12.1 Net minority interest acquired 8.1 8.1 Issue of share capital 0.2 5.0 5.2 5.2 Share buy-back 8.6 8.6 201.4 201.4 201.4 Dividends 74.1 74.1 4.1 78.2 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 0.4 0.4 0.4 profit for the year 117.2 117.2 1.8 119.0 At 31 December 2006 54.2 98.1 33.4 4.5 105.9 75.3 75.3 Exchange adjustments net of tax 4.4 4.4 4.4 Actuarial gain on dened benefit pension scheme net of tax 17.4 17.4 17.4 Cumulative foreign exchange losses recycled within net profit 8.6 8.6 8.6 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities 0.4 0.4 0.4 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities recycled within net profit 44.4 44.4 44.4 Adjustment of deferred tax from 30% to 28% 2.4 2.4 2.4 Issue of share capital 0.1 0.1 0.1 Purchase of own shares 2.1 2.1 2.1 Dividends 375.9 375.9 375.9 Debit in respect of employee share schemes 1.4 1.4 1.4 profit for the year 311.5 311.5 311.5 At 31 December 2007 54.2 98.2 33.4 0.3 198.8 13.3 13.3 The reserves of subsidiary undertakings have generally been retained to finance their businesses.
Other reserves comprise retained losses of 202.1m 2006: 157.6m, fair value losses of 0.6m 2006: gains of 44.2m and the 3.9m 2006: 7.5m unamortised element of the equity component of the convertible bond.
Share Share Capital Other capital premium redemption reserves Total Company m m m m m At 1 January 2006 62.6 93.1 24.8 1,206.7 1,387.2 Issue of share capital 0.2 5.0 5.2 Share buy-back 8.6 8.6 201.4 201.4 Dividends 74.1 74.1 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 0.1 0.1 Loss for the year 25.2 25.2 At 31 December 2006 54.2 98.1 33.4 906.1 1,091.8 Issue of share capital 0.1 0.1 Purchase of own shares 2.1 2.1 Dividends 375.9 375.9 Debit in respect of employee share schemes 0.1 0.1 Loss for the year 18.8 18.8 At 31 December 2007 54.2 98.2 33.4 509.2 695.0 Other reserves comprise retained earnings of 345.5m 2006: 738.8m, the 3.9m 2006: 7.5m unamortised element of the equity component of the convertible bond and an unrealised profit reserve of 159.8m 2006: 159.8m.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 75 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Minority interest 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 11.4 Exchange adjustments 1.0 Share of net profit 1.8 Dividend paid 4.1 Minority interest acquired 7.7 Minority interest disposed 0.4 At 31 December As at 31 December 2007 there are no minority interests in the Group.
28 Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 restated m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 23.1 126.9 0.3 0.6 Exceptional items 45.2 53.7 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 68.3 73.2 0.3 0.6 Depreciation and amortisation 28.5 28.9 Decrease increase in working capital 6.6 3.7 0.6 0.7 Other 1.6 8.9 0.3 0.5 101.8 107.3 0.6 0.8 Cash payments in respect of exceptional costs and provisions 15.8 37.0 0.4 Cash generated from operations 86.0 70.3 0.6 1.2 29 Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 36.9 79.9 0.3 0.1 Current asset investments 35.2 3.7 Total cash 72.1 83.6 0.3 0.1 The analysis of total cash by currency is as follows: UK Sterling 64.4 61.8 0.3 0.1 US Canadian Dollar 0.2 7.4 Other currencies 7.5 14.4 Total cash 72.1 83.6 0.3 0.1 The fair value of cash and current asset investments equals their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
For the purpose of the cash ow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: Group Company 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Total cash 72.1 83.6 0.3 0.1 Bank overdrafts 3.5 8.2 68.6 75.4 0.3 0.1 76 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 30 Post balance sheet event On 28 February 2008 the Group announced that it has entered into a series of agreements with the Trustee of the Rank Pension Plan and Rothesay Life an FSA-regulated insurance company and wholly owned subsidiary of Goldman Sachs, to transfer the assets and liabilities of the Pension Plan to Rothesay Life.
The transfer will secure the accrued benets for the members of the Pension Plan and will remove the remaining financial risks and liabilities in relation to the Pension Plan from the Group.
As a result of the transfer, the Group will no longer be required to make remaining scheduled contributions totalling 30.8m, which the Group agreed with the Pension Trustee at the time of the sale of Deluxe Film in 2006.
Upon completion of the transfer the Group expects to receive a cash payment of at least 20.0m, representing the Groups allocation of the expected surplus within the Pension Plan after an appropriate sharing with the Plans members and any anticipated costs, including tax, associated with the transfer.
The transfer is subject to clearance from HM Revenue and Customs regarding the tax treatment of the transfer.
The Group expects this clearance to be obtained by May 2008 with completion of the transfer expected in June 2008.
Assuming the transaction completes, an exceptional charge will be recognised in 2008.
31 Disposal of businesses The Group completed the sale of Hard Rock on 5 March 2007 resulting in an exceptional profit of 352.7m before related nancing and taxation costs of 37.3m.
A reconciliation of the net proceeds from sale is included in the table below: 2007 2006 Total Total m m Property, plant and equipment 107.3 79.1 Intangible assets 6.6 21.4 Inventories 12.8 34.9 Trade and other receivables 19.6 374.1 Investments 52.1 10.1 Deferred tax 15.0 Trade and other payables 30.9 109.1 Other provisions 4.2 1.9 Net assets disposed 178.3 408.6 profit loss on disposal before tax and finance costs 352.7 7.0 Other related costs and provision utilisation 6.2 26.2 Cumulative foreign exchange losses recycled within net profit 8.6 Cumulative revaluation of availablefor-sale securities recycled within net profit 44.4 Section 75 pension contribution 24.0 Minority interest 0.4 Sales consideration 501.4 451.4 Sales proceeds less related costs 502.7 453.9 Cash and overdrafts disposed 6.5 4.1 Borrowings and lease obligations disposed 5.2 1.6 Sales consideration 501.4 451.4 Sale proceeds less related costs 502.7 453.9 Cash and overdrafts disposed 6.5 4.1 Net proceeds from sale of businesses per cash ow 496.2 449.8 32 Employees and directors a Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year 2007 2006 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total m m m m m m Wages and salaries 138.4 11.3 149.7 145.9 127.4 273.3 Social security costs 14.5 1.5 16.0 15.0 13.9 28.9 Other pension costs 5.2 0.2 5.4 8.2 3.0 11.2 Share-based payments 1.6 1.6 0.9 0.4 0.5 156.5 13.0 169.5 170.0 143.9 313.9 The Company has no employees.
The directors of the Group are paid by a subsidiary undertaking.
Discontinued relates to costs within Hard Rock up until the date of disposal.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 77 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Employees and directors continued b Average monthly number of employees by segment 2007 2006 Mecca Bingo 3,824 4,457 Top Rank Espaa 636 611 Grosvenor Casinos 3,316 3,481 Blue Square 152 132 Gaming shared services 211 207 Other 30 53 Total continuing operations 8,169 8,941 Hard Rock 1,150 6,900 Deluxe 2,534 US Holidays 627 Total discontinued operations 1,150 10,061 Total 9,319 19,002 c Key management compensation 2007 2006 m m Salaries and short term employee benets 3.8 3.2 Termination benets 1.7 Post employment benets 0.5 0.5 Share-based payments 0.1 0.5 4.4 5.9 Key management is dened as the directors of the Group and the executive committee.
Further details of the executive committee are set out on page 29.
Details of the remuneration of each director are set out in the remuneration report on pages 30 to 34 which form part of these financial statements.
d Directors interests The directors interests in shares of the Company, including options to purchase Ordinary shares under the terms of the Groups Executive Share Option Scheme, and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, are detailed in the remuneration report.
Details of options to subscribe for Ordinary shares of the Company granted to or exercised by directors in the year ended 31 December 2007 are also detailed in the remuneration report.
e Total emoluments of the directors of The Rank Group Plc 2007 2006 m m Aggregate emoluments 1.8 3.9 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options 0.1 Aggregate gains made on Deferred Share Bonus Plan 0.1 Number of directors accruing benets under dened benefit schemes 2 Further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
The 2006 comparatives include amounts in respect of former directors who resigned in 2006.
78 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 33 Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company operated the Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Details of these schemes are included in the remuneration report on pages 30 to 34.
This information was not available in 2006.
Included within these balances are options over shares that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002.
These options have not been subsequently modied and therefore are not required to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
The share options outstanding at the year-end have the following range of exercise prices and expiry dates as follows: Outstanding at 31 December 2007 Outstanding at 31 December 2006 Weighted Weighted average Number average Number Exercise remaining of shares Exercise remaining of shares prices contractual under prices contractual under range life option range life option ESOS 155.25p338.72p 6.9 years 4,878,595 155.25p435.82p 5.5 years 11,812,842 SAYE 3 year 139.00p268.00p 3.0 years 2,659,923 187.00p268.00p 2.8 years 2,653,687 SAYE 5 year 139.00p268.00p 4.1 years 1,292,759 141.00p268.00p 3.9 years 1,431,167 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 79 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Share-based payments continued The estimated fair values for each of the ESOS and SAYE awards granted were calculated using a Black-Scholes pricing model with the inputs detailed below.
The fair value of the LTIP was calculated using a Monte Carlo model approach, and indicates the proportion of shares likely to vest, taking into account the Total Shareholder Return performance requirements.
For grants made subject to an EPS performance condition, the expense is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
2007 2006 Risk-free interest rate % 4.95% 4.50% Expected life of options ESOS n a 3 years Expected life of award LTIP 3 or 4 years 3 years Expected life of options SAYE 3 or 5 years 3 or 5 years Expected share price volatility % 27.51% 28.06% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield % 3.47% 5.25% The expected life of the ESOS was based on managements best estimate of the exercise pattern of option holders taking into account exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The expected life of the LTIP and SAYE are determined by the performance period and savings terms respectively.
The expected share price volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the four calendar years prior to each grant.
The expected dividend growth is based on historical dividend payments in the year prior to grant, expressed as a percentage of the weighted average share price for that year.
As such, this is based on historical data and does not necessarily indicate future dividend policy.
The weighted average fair value per share of awards granted during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 ESOS n a 37.13p LTIP 195.50p 236.00p SAYE 3 year 48.25p 67.45p SAYE 5 year 52.88p 57.45p Accounting for share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 resulted in a credit to Group profit for the year of 1.6m 2006: debit of 0.5m.
National Insurance contributions are payable by the Company in respect of some of the share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at the end of 2007 of 0.2m 2006: 0.4m of which nil was in respect of vested grants.
34 Retirement benets UK The Group has two pension schemes for UK employees.
The schemes are externally funded and the funds assets are held separately from Group assets.
The accounts of both schemes for the year ended 5 April 2007 have been reported upon by their auditors without qualication.
UK Rank Pension Plan The Rank Pension Plan the Plan is a dened benefit scheme with pensions xed by reference to final pay and length of service.
Formal actuarial valuations of the Plan are carried out at least triennially by an independent actuary, Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited.
The most recent valuation was undertaken as at 5 April 2007.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Plan has been updated by an independent actuary to 31 December 2007.
Details of the Plans liabilities and assets under IAS 19 are: 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m Assets 740.8 711.0 636.5 556.4 Liabilities 610.1 635.2 674.7 587.5 Net dened benefit pension asset liability 130.7 75.8 38.2 31.1 On 28 February 2008 the Group disposed of its interest in and obligations to the Plan.
Further details are contained in note 30.
80 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 34 Retirement benets continued Change in plan assets 2007 2006 m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 711.0 636.5 Expected return on plan assets 42.1 37.8 Actuarial losses gains 7.7 6.9 Total actual return on plan assets 34.4 44.7 Employer contributions includes benets paid and reimbursed Section 75 contribution 4.6 24.0 Other 19.3 32.4 Member contributions 1.3 1.5 Benets paid by fund and Company 29.8 28.1 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 740.8 711.0 Change in benefit obligation 2007 2006 m m benefit obligation at beginning of year 635.2 674.7 Current service cost 4.3 5.8 Interest cost 31.6 31.1 Past service cost 1.4 Plan members contributions 1.3 1.5 Actuarial gains 32.5 51.2 Benets paid 29.8 28.1 benefit obligation at end of year 610.1 635.2 The estimated employer contributions expected to be paid to the Plan in 2008 are 2.3m.
Components of pension cost 2007 2006 m m Current service cost 4.3 5.8 Amortisation of prior service cost 1.4 Total pension charge recognised in operating profit in the income statement 4.3 7.2 Interest cost 31.6 31.1 Expected return on plan assets 42.1 37.8 Total pension credit recognised in nancing in the income statement 10.5 6.7 Total pension credit charge recognised in the income statement 6.2 0.5 Statement of recognised income and expense SORIE 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m Actuarial gains and losses immediately recognised: Experience gains and losses 39.7 63.8 Changes in assumptions 32.5 11.5 75.9 44.3 Actual return less expected return in assets 7.7 6.9 60.1 10.1 Section 75 contribution 24.0 Total pension credit expense recognised in the SORIE before taxation 24.8 82.1 15.8 29.6 Taxation 7.4 17.4 2.4 8.6 Total pension credit expense recognised in the SORIE 17.4 64.7 13.4 21.0 The cumulative amount of gains and losses recognised in the SORIE before taxation was 120.7m 2006: 95.9m.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 81 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 34 Retirement benets continued Plan assets The weighted average asset allocations at the year-end were as follows: 2007 2006 Market Expected Market Expected value return value return Investment category m % p. a. m % p. a.
Equities UK and overseas 210.4 5.7 281.2 7.6 Government bonds 125.2 4.5 280.9 4.6 Non-Government bonds 188.8 5.7 130.3 5.1 Insured pensions 11.7 5.7 12.6 5.1 Cash 204.7 5.5 6.0 5.0 Total 740.8 5.4 711.0 5.9 To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered the current level of expected returns on risk free investments primarily Government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the actual asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
Over the course of 2007, the Plan's investment strategy changed and a series of derivatives were implemented to remove risk within the portfolio.
The value of the derivative instruments are contained within the asset values at 31 December 2007 and reected in the expected return for 2008.
The Plan is currently in the process of transitioning growth assets into cash and therefore expectations for the total weighted return on the assets over 2008 may differ from those implied at the balance sheet date.
Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at: 2007 2006 % p. a.
Yield pre retirement 5.7 5.1 Yield post retirement 5.7 5.1 Price ination 3.4 3.0 Salary growth 4.6 4.2 Pension increases 5% LPI 3.4 3.0 Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension expense for year ended: 2008 2007 2006 % % % Discount rate 5.7 5.1 4.7 Expected long term return on plan assets 5.4 5.9 5.7 Rate of compensation increase 4.6 4.2 4.0 Mortality tables used to determine benefit obligations at: 2007 2006 Current pensioner PA92 YOB mc PA92 YOB mc Active preserved member PA92 YOB mc PA92 YOB mc Other UK pension commitments During the year to 31 December 2007 the Group contributed a total of 0.9m 2006: 1.3m to dened contribution schemes.
The Rank Money Purchase Pension Scheme closed to future contribution on 5 April 2006 and was replaced by the Rank Group Stakeholder Pension Plan.
Both of these are dened contribution schemes with benets which depend on the contribution levels and the emerging investment performance.
There were no significant contributions outstanding.
The Group has an unfunded pension commitment relating to three former executives of the Group.
The provision is calculated using a basis consistent with the assumptions used to value the funded dened benefit plan in the UK.
At 31 December, the Groups commitment was 2.6m 2006: 3.0m.
The Group paid 0.1m 2006: 0.4m in pension payments during the year.
US The Group operated dened contribution schemes in the US.
Group contributions to these schemes during 2007 totalled 0.2m 2006: 2.7m.
Total At 31 December 2007 there was a net pension surplus of 128.1m of which 130.7m relates to the Plan, and 2.6 m relates to the unfunded UK commitment.
82 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 35 Lease commitments Operating lease agreements where the Group is lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, plant and items of machinery.
These leases have durations between two and over 100 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2007 2006 Group m m Not later than one year 41.7 69.3 After one year but not more than five years 155.1 323.0 After five years 381.2 591.0 578.0 983.3 Of which relates to discontinued operations 404.0 2007 2006 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 67.0 78.9 Finance leases where the Group is a lessee The minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Present value Minimum of minimum lease payments lease payments 2007 2006 2007 2006 Group m m m m Not later than one year 1.9 2.8 0.9 1.7 After one year but not more than five years 6.8 7.4 3.2 3.4 More than five years 15.2 17.1 10.5 11.6 23.9 27.3 14.6 16.7 Less future finance charges 9.3 10.6 Present value of minimum lease payments 14.6 16.7 2007 2006 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 2.7 2.9 36 Contingent liabilities Group 2007 2006 m m Guarantees by the Company and by subsidiary undertakings 0.9 Company 2007 2006 m m Guarantees of advances to subsidiary undertakings 215.1 768.7 No security has been given in respect of any contingent liability.
37 Capital and other financial commitments Group 2007 2006 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial information 1.2 7.0 Contracts placed for future capital expenditure primarily relate to property, plant and equipment.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 83 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 38 Related party transactions Group The Group recharges the Rank Group UK pension schemes with the costs of administration and independent pension advisers borne by the Group.
The total amount recharged in the year ended 31 December 2007 was 2.2m 2006: 1.7m.
In 2006 the Group traded with its joint venture undertaking Lifestar and its subsidiaries.
Royalties and costs reimbursed in 2006 to the Group totalled 0.7m.
At 31 December 2006 Lifestar owed the Group 1.3m for which the Group held an associated doubtful debt provision of 1.1m.
The Group's interest in Lifestar and associated balances were disposed with the sale of Hard Rock on 5 March 2007.
Following the sale the Group has no relationship with Lifestar and there were no material transactions between 1 January 2007 and the date of sale.
Company The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the year: 2007 2006 m m Interest payable 28.6 34.6 During the year, Rank Group Finance Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, provided additional cash funding to the Company of 384.0m.
The funding was primarily used to finance dividends, including the 352.5m special dividend.
Full details of how the funding was utilised are disclosed in the Company cash ow statement on page 44.
39 Restatement of 2006 full year comparative The Group has amended its accounting policy in relation to exceptional items and the net return on the dened benefit pension asset.
The accounting policy previously reported in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 in relation to exceptional items has been amended to aid comparability of the Groups results.
Further details of the revised policy are provided in note 1A.
The Group has also reviewed its policy in relation to the classication within the income statement of the net return arising on its dened benefit pension asset.
To improve comparability of the results and in accordance with accounting best practice, the Group has decided to reclassify the net return arising on the dened benefit pension asset from operating profit to net nancing costs.
These changes had no effect on total basic or diluted earnings per share.
The table below provides a reconciliation of the impact of the changes on the 2006 full year comparative: As published Reclassication As restated Year to Net return on Club Year to 31.12.06 pension asset disposals Impairment 31.12.06 m m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit Mecca Bingo 63.2 2.1 6.1 8.6 63.6 Top Rank Espaa 8.9 8.9 Grosvenor Casinos 39.5 3.2 36.3 Blue Square 7.8 7.8 Gaming shared services 24.8 1.2 26.0 Other 17.2 0.2 17.4 Before exceptional items 77.4 6.7 6.1 8.6 73.2 Exceptional items 56.2 6.1 8.6 53.7 Group operating profit 133.6 6.7 126.9 Total net nancing charge 40.7 6.7 34.0 profit before taxation 92.9 92.9 Taxation 21.6 21.6 profit for the year from continuing operations 114.5 114.5 Discontinued operations 4.5 4.5 profit for the year 119.0 119.0 All restatements to operating profit before exceptional items are included in the other operating costs income line in the Group income statement.
In addition, the 2006 comparatives have been restated to reect the transfer of 13.9m of assets from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets as if it had taken place on 1 January 2006.
Segmental assets and liabilities have been restated to reclassify cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, retirement benets and net interest payable to unallocated assets and liabilities.
Provisions for liabilities and charges have been allocated to the respective business and geographical segments.
84 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 40 Principal subsidiaries Except where otherwise stated, The Rank Group Plc owns directly or indirectly 100% of the Ordinary share capital and voting rights of the following companies.
The principal operations are carried out in the country of incorporation as indicated below.
The companies all have a 31 December year-end.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to list all of them below.
The list therefore includes those companies which the directors consider principally affect the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
Particulars of all Group companies will be annexed to the next Annual Return submitted to the Registrar of Companies.
Country of Gaming incorporation Principal activities Grosvenor Casinos Limited UK London and provincial casinos Mecca Bingo Limited UK Social and bingo clubs Rank Holding Espaa SA Spain Owns the Groups investments in Top Rank Espaa Rank Group Gaming Division Limited UK Owns the Groups investments in UK Gaming companies and provides Gaming shared services Blue Square Limited UK Interactive gaming Blue Square Gaming Alderney Limited UK Interactive gaming Holding and other companies Rank America, Inc. USA Owns the Groups residual investments in the USA Rank Group Finance Plc UK Funding operations for the Group Rank Leisure Holdings Limited UK Owns the Groups investments in the UK operating subsidiary undertakings and Rank Overseas Holdings Limited Rank Overseas Holdings Limited UK Owns the Groups investment in Rank Holdings Netherlands BV and Rank America, Inc. directly held by the parent company The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 85
