Shareholder information A wide range of information for shareholders and investors is available Shareview in the Investors & Press area of the Rank Group website: www.
com The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys registrar gives shareholders more control over their Rank shares and other investments Ordinary shares including: There was a total of 390,529,314 Ordinary 13 8 9p shares in issue direct access to data held for them on the share register including at 31 December 2007, which were held by 22,505 shareholders.
recent share movements and dividend details: Share price information a recent valuation of their portfolio: and The latest information on the Rank Ordinary share price is available in a range of information and practical help for shareholders.
the Investors & Press area of the www.
Closing share prices for the previous business day are quoted in most daily newspapers It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will just need the and, throughout the working day, time-delayed share prices are shareholder reference printed on their proxy form or dividend stationery.
broadcast on the text pages of the principal UK TV channels.
Please visit the following website for more details: www.
co. uk Capital gains tax ShareGift For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on a disposal of Shareholders with a very small number of shares, the value of which may Ordinary shares in the Company held since 31 March 1982 including make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to shares held in the predecessor company, The Rank Organisation Plc, the charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr price of the Companys Ordinary shares at that date was 190p per share.
This price should be adjusted for the effects of the rights issue in January Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org 1990, the enhanced share alternative in July 1993, the sub-division and or by writing to: consolidation of shares in March 1994, the enhanced scrip dividend in March 1998, and the 18 for 25 sub-division and share consolidation ShareGift aligned with the 65p special dividend payment which took place in 17 Carlton House Terrace March 2007.
More information regarding these adjustments is available London SW1Y 5AH on the www.
Tel: 020 7930 3737 Share dealing services For further information on Rank please contact: The sale or purchase of shares must be done through a stockbroker or Pamela Coles, company secretary share dealing service provider.
The London Stock Exchange provides a Dan Waugh, director of investor relations Locate a broker facility on its website which gives details of a number of Registered in England No.
3140769 companies offering share dealing services.
The Rank Group Plc For more information, please visit the Investor Centre Tools page at Registered ofce, www.
com Statesman House Rank has also arranged a panel of low-cost providers, details of which can Stafferton Way be found on the Shareholder Services pages within the Investors & Press Maidenhead area of the Companys website: www.
com Berkshire SL6 1AY Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to Tel: 01628 504000 encourage shareholders to either buy or to sell shares.
com any doubt about what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Registrar All enquiries relating to Ordinary shareholders, dividends and changes of address should be addressed to the Companys registrar quoting reference number 1235, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
There is also a text phone available on 0871 384 2255 for shareholders with hearing difficulties.
Calls to both of these numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony provider costs may vary.
2008 financial calendar 7 May Annual General Meeting and interim management statement 31 July Interim results announcement October Interim management statement The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 87
