Parent company accounting policies Accounting convention Financial instruments Cash flow statement The accounts are prepared under the historical Financial instruments held for trading are Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has presented a cost convention as modified by the revaluation classified as current assets and current liabilities, Group cash flow statement in its Annual Report of financial instruments and share based and are stated at fair value, with any resulting and Accounts 2007, therefore as permitted remuneration and in accordance with the gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
by FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, the Directors Companies Act 1985 and applicable United have not prepared a cash flow statement Where the Company has the positive intent Kingdom accounting standards.
and ability to hold a financial instrument until Foreign currency translation its maturity, the instruments are stated at Accounting estimates and judgements Transactions denominated in foreign currencies amortised cost less any impairment losses The Directors make a number of estimates and are translated at the rate of exchange on the recognised in the income statement.
assumptions regarding the future, and make day the transaction occurs or at the contracted some significant judgements in applying the The fair value of financial instruments classified rate if the transaction is covered by a forward Groups accounting policies.
These include: as held for trading is their quoted bid price exchange contract.
at the balance sheet date.
The determination of the carrying value Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign of investments classified as fixed assets, Financial instruments classified as held for trading currency are translated at the exchange rate and the assessment of any impairment are recognised derecognised by the Company ruling on the balance sheet date or, if of the investments.
on the date it commits to purchase sell the appropriate, at a forward contract rate.
Financial instruments held to maturity Assumptions are made in relation to share Taxation are recognised fide-recognised on the day they awards, both in the Black-Scholes model The tax charge is based on the profit for are transferred to by the Company.
used to calculate the charge and in terms the period and takes into account taxation of the recoverability of the deferred tax Capital transactions deferred due to timing differences between asset related to the share award reserve.
When the Company repurchases equity share the treatment of certain items for taxation capital, the amount of the consideration paid, Comparative information and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities including directly attributable costs, is recognised As detailed in note 5, on 23 October 2007 are provided for in full and deferred tax assets as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares a Scheme of Arrangement took place whereby are recognised to the extent that they are are either held in Treasury in order to satisfy Reckitt Benckiser Group plc was interposed considered recoverable.
employee options, or cancelled and, in order as the new holding company of the Group.
Tangible fixed assets to maintain capital, an equivalent amount There is no comparative information as this is Fixed asset investments are valued at cost to the nominal value of the shares cancelled the Companys first accounting period.
is transferred from Retained Earnings to the Capital Redemption Reserve.
Employee share schemes Incentives in the form of shares are provided Cash and cash equivalents to employees under share option and restricted Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash share schemes.
Any shortfall between the cost balances and other deposits with a maturity to the employee and the fair market value of of less than three months when deposited.
the awards at date of grant is charged to the income statement over the period to which the performance criteria relate, with the credit taken directly to the retained earnings reserve.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged to the income statement account over the same period with the credit included in creditors.
Where awards are contingent upon future events an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of each reporting period and reflected in the accounting entries made.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 61
