Parent company independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the parent company financial We read other information contained in the Opinion statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for Annual Report and consider whether it is In our opinion: the period ended 31 December 2007 which consistent with the audited parent company the parent company financial statements comprise the balance sheet and the related financial statements.
The other information give a true and fair view, in accordance with notes.
These parent company financial statements comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the United Kingdom Generally Accepted have been prepared under the accounting Chief Executives Review, the Business Review Accounting Practice, of the state of the policies set out therein.
We have also audited 2007, the Report of the Directors including Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the information in the Directors Remuneration Corporate governance, the unaudited part Report that is described as having been audited.
of the Directors Remuneration Report, the the parent company financial statements biographies of the Board of Directors and and the part of the Directors Remuneration We have reported separately on the Group Executive Committee, and the Shareholder Report to be audited have been properly financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group information.
We consider the implications for prepared in accordance with the Companies plc for the year ended 31 December 2007. our report if we become aware of any apparent Act 1985: and Respective responsibilities of Directors misstatements or material inconsistencies with the information given in the Report of the and auditors the parent company financial statements.
Our Directors is consistent with the parent The Directors responsibilities for preparing the responsibilities do not extend to any other company financial statements.
Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration information.
Report and the parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements in accordance with applicable law We conducted our audit in accordance with and United Kingdom Accounting Standards International Standards on Auditing UK and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Practice are set out in the statement of An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Directors responsibilities.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and  LLP Our responsibility is to audit the parent company disclosures in the parent company financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial statements and the part of the Directors statements and the part of the Directors London Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also 13 March 2008 with relevant legal and regulatory requirements includes an assessment of the significant and International Standards on Auditing UK estimates and judgements made by the Directors Notes: and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, in the preparation of the parent company The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt has been prepared for and only for the Companys financial statements, and of whether the Benckiser Group plc website is the responsibility members as a body in accordance with Section accounting policies are appropriate to the of the Directors: the work carried out by the 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no Companys circumstances, consistently applied auditors does not involve consideration of other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, and adequately disclosed.
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept or assume responsibility for any other accept no responsibility for any changes that We planned and performed our audit so as to purpose or to any other person to whom this may have occurred to the financial statements obtain all the information and explanations report is shown or into whose hands it may since they were initially presented on which we considered necessary in order to come save where expressly agreed by our prior the website.
provide us with sufficient evidence to give consent in writing.
reasonable assurance that the parent company Legislation in the United Kingdom governing We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and the part of the the preparation and dissemination of financial parent company financial statements give a true Directors Remuneration Report to be audited statements may differ from legislation in and fair view and whether the parent company are free from material misstatement, whether other jurisdictions.
financial statements and the part of the caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited In forming our opinion we also evaluated have been properly prepared in accordance with the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you information in the parent company financial whether in our opinion the information given in statements and the part of the Directors the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Remuneration Report to be audited.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
60 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
