Accounting policies Accounting policies for the year ended The results and net assets of the Groups IFRS 8 Operating Segments will be adopted 31 December 2007 subsidiary in Zimbabwe have been excluded with effect from 1 January 2009.
It may lead The principal accounting policies adopted in from the consolidated Group results.
This is on to changes in the determination of the the preparation of these financial statements the basis that the Group does not consider the Groups disclosed segments.
Unless otherwise stated, Zimbabwean business to be a subsidiary due IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury share these policies have been consistently applied to the loss of power to govern the financial and transactions will be adopted from 1 January to all the years presented.
operating policies of the Zimbabwean business 2009, but it is not expected to have a material due to the restrictions on remitting funds out Basis of preparation impact on the Group accounts.
Results for 2006 and 2007, These financial statements have been prepared and the balance sheets as at 31 December 2006 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements in accordance with EU endorsed International and 31 December 2007, were insignificant.
which would be adopted from 1 January Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and 2008 assuming EU endorsement is not International Financial Reporting Interpretations The following standards, amendments and relevant to the Groups operations.
Committee IFRIC interpretations, and with interpretations became effective for accounting those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable periods ending after 1 January 2007: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes to companies reporting under IFRS.
These which would be adopted from 1 January IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, financial statements have been prepared under 2009 assuming EU endorsement is not and the complementary amendment to the historical cost convention, as modified by expected to have a material impact on the IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities Groups operations.
Capital disclosures, introduces new at fair value through the Group income statement.
disclosures relating to financial instruments IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined A summary of the Groups more important and does not have any impact on the benefit asset, minimum funding requirements accounting policies is set out below.
classification and valuation of the Group or and their interaction effective from 1 January The preparation of financial statements that Companys financial instruments, or the 2008 assuming EU endorsement.
The Group conform to IFRS requires management to disclosures relating to taxation.
will apply IFRIC 14 from 1 January 2008, but make estimates and assumptions that affect the it is not expected to have a material impact IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, requires reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the on the Group accounts.
consideration of transactions involving the balance sheet date and revenue and expenses issuance of equity instruments, where the Foreign currency translation during the reporting period.
Although these identifiable consideration received is less than Items included in the financial statements estimates are based on managements best the fair value of the equity instruments issued of each of the Groups entities are measured knowledge at the time, actual amounts may in order to establish whether or not they fall using the currency of the primary economic ultimately differ from those estimates.
This standard environment in which the entity operates Basis of consolidation does not have any impact on the Group the functional currency.
The consolidated In October 2007, pursuant to a Scheme of or Companys financial statements.
financial statements are presented in sterling, Arrangement under s425 of the Companies Act which is the Companys functional currency.
IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and 1985, a new parent company was introduced impairment, prohibits the impairment losses Foreign currency transactions are translated which is called Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
recognised in an interim period on goodwill into the functional currency using exchange The introduction of a new holding company and investments in equity instruments and rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
constitutes a Group reconstruction and has been in financial assets carried at cost from being Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting accounted for using merger accounting principles.
reversed at a subsequent balance sheet date.
from the settlement of foreign currency Therefore, although the Group reconstruction This standard does not have any impact on transactions and from the translation at period did not become effective until October 2007, the Group or Companys financial statements.
end exchange rates of monetary assets and the consolidated financial statements of Reckitt liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Benckiser Group plc are presented as if both The following standards, amendments and are recognised in the income statement, Reckitt Benckiser plc and Reckitt Benckiser interpretations are effective for accounting except where hedge accounting is applied.
Group plc had always been part of the same periods ending after 1 January 2007, but Group.
Accordingly, the results of the Group are not relevant to the Groups operations: The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings for the entire year ended 31 December 2007 are translated into sterling on the following basis: IFRS 4 Insurance contracts.
are shown in the consolidated income statement Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange and the comparative figures for the year ended IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach ruling at the year end date.
31 December 2006 are also prepared on this under IAS 39 Financial Reporting in basis.
Earnings per share are unaffected by Hyperinflationary Economies.
Profit and loss account items at the average the reorganisation.
rate of exchange for the period.
IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded The consolidated financial statements include derivatives.
Exchange differences arising from the translation the results of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and all of the net investment in foreign entities, and The following standards and interpretations its subsidiary undertakings made up to the same of borrowings and other currency instruments are not yet effective and have not been early accounting date.
In the case of acquisitions and designated as hedges of such investments, are adopted by the Group: disposals of businesses, the results of trading taken to shareholders equity on consolidation.
are consolidated from or to the date upon IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs to which control passes.
be adopted with effect from 1 January 2009 assuming EU endorsement but is currently Inter-company transactions, balances and not expected to have any impact on the unrealised gains on transactions between Group accounts.
Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses have also been IFRS 3, Business Combinations: Revised eliminated to the extent that they do not which the Group expects to adopt in 2010 represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
Acquisitions Subsidiaries accounting policies have been made from 2010 onwards will be accounted changed where necessary to ensure consistency for under the revised standard.
with the policies adopted by the Group.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 25 Accounting policies continued The currencies that most influence these The cost of an acquisition is measured as the Payments made in respect of product registration translations and the relevant exchange fair value of the assets given, equity instruments and distribution rights are capitalised where rates were: issued if any, and liabilities assumed or incurred the rights comply with the above requirements at the date of acquisition, plus costs directly for recognition of acquired brands.
If the 2007 2006 attributable to the acquisition.
registration or distribution rights are for a defined full year full year time period, the intangible asset is amortised The results of the subsidiaries acquired are Average rates: over that period.
If no time period is defined included in the Group financial statements Euro 1.4602 1.4672 the intangible asset is treated in the same way from the acquisition date.
US dollar 2.0018 1.8436 as acquired brands.
Closing rates: Goodwill and intangible fixed assets Acquired computer software licences are Euro 1.3605 1.4841 Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of capitalised at cost.
These costs are amortised US dollar 1.9849 1.9589 an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups over three years.
share of the net identifiable assets of the Property, plant and equipment acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Research and development Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries since Research expenditure is written off in the year less accumulated depreciation and impairment, 4 January 1998 is included in intangible assets.
with the exception of freehold land, which is Goodwill written off to reserves prior to this Development expenditure is written off in shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes date has not been reinstated.
Goodwill is the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets expenditure that is directly attributable to the allocated to the cash generating units to which the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised acquisition of the asset.
Except for freehold it relates and is tested annually for impairment.
and then amortised over the useful life of the land, the cost of property, plant and equipment Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated developed product.
is written off on a straight line basis over the impairment losses.
period of the expected useful life of the asset.
Exceptional items An acquired brand is only recognised on the For this purpose, expected lives are determined Where material, non-recurring expenses or balance sheet as an intangible asset where within the following limits: income are incurred during a period these items it is supported by a registered trademark, is are recognised on a separate line in the income Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: established in the marketplace, brand earnings statement.
Examples of such items are: are separately identifiable, the brand could be Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser sold separately from the rest of the business Expenses relating to the integration of an of 50 years or the life of the lease: and and where the brand achieves earnings in excess acquired business Owned plant and equipment: not more than of those achieved by unbranded products.
Expenses relating to reconfiguration of the 15 years except for environmental assets The value of an acquired brand is determined Groups activities which are not more than 20 years.
In general, by allocating the purchase consideration of an Impairments of current and non-current assets production plant and equipment and office acquired business between the underlying fair Gain loss on disposal of businesses.
equipment are written off over ten years or less: values of the tangible assets, goodwill, brands The Group also presents an alternative, adjusted motor vehicles and computer equipment over and other intangible assets acquired.
basis, earnings per share calculation, to exclude five years or less.
Brands are not generally amortised, as it is the impact of the exceptional items.
Assets residual values and useful lives are considered that their useful economic lives Management believe that the use of adjusted reviewed, and adjusted if necessary, at each are not limited.
This policy is appropriate measures such as adjusted operating profit, balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment due to the stable long-term nature of the adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per are reviewed for impairment if events or changes business and the enduring nature of the share provide additional useful information on in circumstances indicate that the carrying brands.
A core element of the Groups strategy underlying trends to shareholders.
amount may not be appropriate.
Freehold land is to invest in building its brands through an is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
ongoing programme of product innovation Impairment of assets and sustained and rising marketing particularly Assets that have indefinite lives are tested Gains and losses on the disposal of property, media investment.
Within Reckitt Benckiser, annually for impairment.
All assets are tested for plant and equipment are determined by a brand typically comprises an assortment of impairment if there is an event or circumstance comparing the assets carrying value with base products and more innovative products.
that indicates that their carrying value may any sale proceeds, and are included in the Both contribute to the enduring nature of the not be recoverable.
If an assets carrying value income statement.
The base products establish the long-term exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment Business combinations positioning of the brand while a succession of loss is recognised in the income statement.
The The purchase method is used to account for the innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest recoverable amount is the higher of the assets acquisition of subsidiaries.
Identifiable net assets and attention.
Indefinite life brands are allocated fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
acquired including intangibles in a business to the cash generating units to which they relate Value in use is calculated with reference to combination are measured initially at their and are tested annually for impairment.
the future cash flows expected to be generated fair values at the acquisition date.
The Directors also review the useful economic by an asset or group of assets where cash The excess of the cost of the acquisition over life of brands annually, to ensure that their flows are not identifiable to specific assets.
the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities economic lives are still appropriate.
If a brand The discount rate used in brand impairment and contingent liabilities acquired including is considered to have a finite life, its carrying reviews is based on the Groups weighted intangibles is recorded as goodwill.
value is amortised over that period.
average cost of capital including, where appropriate, an adjustment for the specific risks associated with the relevant asset.
26 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Inventories Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability Employee share schemes Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net method, on temporary differences arising Incentives in the form of shares are provided realisable value.
Cost comprises materials, direct between the tax bases of assets and liabilities to employees under share option and restricted labour and an appropriate portion of overhead and their carrying amounts in the consolidated share schemes.
Any shortfall between the cost expenses based on normal operating capacity.
The deferred income tax to the employee and the fair market value Net realisable value is the estimated selling price is not accounted for if it arises from the initial of the awards date of grant is charged to the less applicable selling expenses.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction income statement over the period to which the other than a business combination that affects performance criteria relate, with the credit taken Trade receivables neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at directly to the retained earnings reserve.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair that time.
Deferred income tax is determined Additional employer costs in respect of options value.
If there is objective evidence that the using tax rates and laws that have been and awards are charged to the income Group will not be able to collect the full amount enacted or substantially enacted by the balance statement over the same period with the credit of the receivable an impairment is recognised sheet date and are expected to apply when the included in payables.
Where awards are through the income statement.
Significant deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
Deferred contingent upon performance conditions an financial difficulties of the debtor, probability tax assets are recognised to the extent that it assessment of the likelihood of these conditions that a debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial is probable that future taxable profit will be being achieved is made at the end of each reorganisation, and default or delinquency in available against which the temporary reporting period and reflected in the accounting payments are considered indicators that the differences can be utilised.
The impairment is calculated as the difference between the Pension commitments The proceeds received net of any directly carrying value of the receivable and the present Group companies operate defined contribution attributable transaction costs are credited to value of the related estimated future cash and funded and unfunded defined benefit share capital and share premium when the flows, discounted at the original interest rate.
The amount of any impairment is recognised The cost of providing pensions to employees Provisions in the income statement.
who are members of defined contribution Provisions are recognised when the Group has Cash and cash equivalents schemes is charged to the income statement a present legal or constructive obligation as Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash as contributions are made.
The Group has a result of past events, it is more likely than balances and other deposits with a maturity no further payment obligations once the not that there will be an outflow of resources of less than three months when deposited.
to settle that obligation and the amount can For the purpose of the cash flow statement, be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued The liability recognised in the balance sheet in bank overdrafts that form an integral part at the present value of the Directors best respect of defined benefit pension plans is the of the Groups cash management and are estimate of the expenditure required to settle present value of the defined benefit obligation repayable on demand, are included as a the obligation at the balance sheet date.
at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of component of cash and cash equivalents.
The defined benefit obligation Financial instruments Available for sale financial assets is calculated annually by independent actuaries Financial instruments held for trading are Available for sale financial assets are nonusing the project unit credit method.
The present classified as current assets and current liabilities, derivatives that are either designated in this value of the defined benefit obligation is and are stated at fair value, with any resulting category or not classified in any of the other determined by discounting the estimated future gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
They are classified in current assets cash flows by the yield on high-quality corporate Where the Group has the positive intent and unless management intends to dispose of bonds denominated in the currency in which the ability to hold a financial instrument until its them more than 12 months after the balance benefits will be paid, and that have a maturity maturity, the instruments are stated at amortised sheet date.
approximating to the terms of the pension cost less any impairment losses recognised obligations.
The costs of providing these defined Borrowings in the income statement.
benefit schemes are accrued over the period Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised of employment.
Actuarial gains and losses The fair value of financial assets classified as initially at fair value less attributable transaction are recognised immediately in the statement held for trading is their quoted bid price at the costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestof recognised income and expense SORIE.
bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption Post-retirement benefits other than pensions Financial instruments classified as held for value being recognised in the income statement Some Group companies provide post-retirement trading are recognised fide-recognised by the over the period of the borrowings on an medical care to their retirees.
The costs Group on the date it commits to purchase sell effective interest basis.
of providing these benefits are accrued over the instrument.
Financial instruments held to the period of employment and the liability maturity are recognised fide-recognised on the Income tax recognised in the balance sheet is calculated day they are transferred to by the Group.
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises using the projected unit credit method and current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised The Group has no financial assets or financial is discounted to its present value and the in the income statement except to the extent liabilities designated as at fair value through fair value of any related asset is deducted.
that it relates to items recognised directly profit or loss.
in equity, when the income tax is also then recognised directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 27 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments Net revenues Accounting estimates and judgements and hedging activity Net revenues are defined as the amount invoiced The Directors make a number of estimates The Group may use forward rate agreements to external customers during the year, that and assumptions regarding the future, and and forward foreign currency contracts to is gross sales net of trade discounts, customer make some significant judgements in applying manage its exposures to fluctuating interest allowances for credit notes and returns and the Groups accounting policies.
These include: and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments consumer coupons, and exclusive of VAT and Estimates of future business performance are initially recognised at fair value and are other sales-related taxes.
Net revenues are and cash generation supporting the net subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The recognised at the time that the risks and book value of intangible assets at the method of recognising the resulting gain or loss rewards of ownership of the products are balance sheet date note 9 : depends on whether the derivative is designated substantially transferred to the customer.
as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of The determination of the carrying value of Leases the item being hedged.
Derivatives that qualify property, plant and equipment and related Leases of property, plant and equipment where for hedge accounting are treated as either a depreciation, and the estimation of useful the Group has substantially all the risks and hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction economic life of these assets note 10 : rewards of ownership are classified as finance cash flow hedge or a hedge of net investment leases.
Assets held under finance leases are The continuing enduring nature of the in foreign operations net investment hedge.
capitalised at lease inception at the lower Groups brands supporting the assumed At inception the relationship between the of the assets fair value and the present value indefinite useful lives of these assets note 9 : hedging instrument and the hedged item of the minimum lease payments.
Obligations Long-term rates of return, inflation rates is documented, as is an assessment of the related to finance leases, net of finance charges and discount rates have been assumed in effectiveness of the derivative instrument used in respect of future periods, are included as calculating the pension and other employee in the hedging transaction in offsetting changes appropriate within borrowings.
If the real rates in the cash flow of the hedged item.
This element of the finance cost is charged to the are significantly different over time to those effectiveness assessment is repeated on an income statement over the life of the lease so assumed, the amounts recognised in the ongoing basis during the life of the hedging as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest income statement and in the balance sheet instrument to ensure that the instrument on the remaining balance of the liability for each will be impacted note 4 : remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
The plant, property and equipment is depreciated on the same basis as owned plant Assumptions are made as to the recoverability 1.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the and equipment or over the life of the lease, of tax assets especially as to whether there effective portion of changes in the fair value if shorter.
will be sufficient future taxable profits in is recognised in the SORIE.
Any gain or loss the same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses relating to the ineffective portion is recognised Leases where the lessor retains substantially all in future years note 19 : immediately in the income statement.
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals Assumptions are made in relation to share Amounts recognised in equity are recycled net of any related lease incentives are charged awards, both in the Black-Scholes model to the income statement in the period when against profit on a straight line basis over the used to calculate the charge and in terms the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
of the recoverability of the deferred tax asset If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, related to the share award reserve note 4 : or no longer meets the criteria for hedge Capital transactions accounting, any cumulative gain or loss When the Group repurchases equity share The actual tax paid on profits is determined existing in equity at that time remains in capital, the amount of the consideration paid, based on tax laws and regulations that differ equity, and is recognised when the forecast including directly attributable costs, is recognised across the numerous jurisdictions in which transaction is ultimately recognised in the as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares the Group operates.
Assumptions are made income statement.
If the forecast transaction are either held in Treasury, in order to satisfy in applying these laws to the taxable profits is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative employee options, or cancelled and, in order in any given period in order to calculate gain or loss in equity is immediately to maintain capital, an equivalent amount the tax charge for that period.
Where the transferred to the income statement.
to the nominal value of the shares cancelled eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different is transferred from Retained Earnings to the to the amounts originally estimated, the 2.
Derivatives classified as net investment hedges: Capital Redemption Reserve.
difference will be charged or credited the effective portion of any changes in fair to the income statement in the period value is recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss Segmental reporting in which it is determined note 6. relating to the ineffective portion is recognised The Groups policy on determination of segments immediately in the income statement.
and related matters is included in note 1.
Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are classified at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
28 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
