Accounting policies Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have b Interests in Joint Ventures been prepared in accordance with International Financial A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and other parties undertake an economic activity which is subject EU and effective or available for early adoption at 30 June 2007, to joint control.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the and in accordance with Companies Act 1985 as it applies to establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group Regulation and in accordance with the historical cost convention reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
method of accounting - the Groups share of profit after tax is shown separately on the face of the income statement and its The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS share of net assets is included within non-current assets in the requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the balance sheet as an investment.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the When the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, reporting period.
Whilst these estimates are based on unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, Groups interest in the joint venture, except where unrealised actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates refer to losses provide evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Where joint venture arrangements are undertaken directly, the Groups share of jointly controlled assets and liabilities are The principal accounting policies which have been applied recognised in the relevant subsidiary company and classified consistently in the periods presented are outlined below: according to their nature.
Basis of consolidation Revenue and profit recognition The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with respect of the sale of residential housing and of commercial land the Groups share of the results and share of net assets of and developments net of value added tax and discounts.
This is jointly controlled entities made up to 30 June each year i. e. the recognised on legal completion.
financial statements of Redrow plc and entities controlled by Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where Profit is recognised on legal completion.
Redrow plc has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity.
Net finance costs Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by a Subsidiaries reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year rate.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement on are included in the consolidated income statement from the an accruals basis in the period in which they are incurred.
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Income tax acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Identifiable assets Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair value at the date Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair appropriate adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets represents Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as shown in the goodwill.
Goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review, income statement as it excludes income or expenditure items with any reduction in value being taken straight to the income which are never chargeable or allowable for tax or which are statement.
chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying adopted by the Group.
amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the calculation All inter-company transactions and balances between Group of taxable profit.
companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Accounting policies 57 Accounting policies Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance statement of recognised income and expense, or retained earnings sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Inventories Intangible assets computer software Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of less cash on account.
costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years.
Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in materials and subcontract work, other direct costs and those circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be overheads based on normal operating capacity that have been recoverable.
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling Plant, property and equipment price in the normal course of business less relevant variable Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for marketing, selling and distribution expenses.
Freehold property is shown at cost or deemed cost at opening balance sheet date under the IFRS 1 Forward land transitional rules less the subsequent depreciation of buildings.
Expenditure relating to forward land, including options, fees etc is Long leasehold property comprises offices.
The building element of provided for when incurred.
After exercise of an option and the lease is accounted for as a finance lease and the land element acquisition of land following the securing of planning permission, of the lease is accounted for as an operating lease.
the provisions relating to that land are released.
All other plant, property and equipment is stated at historic cost Employee benefits less depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly a Pension obligation attributable to bringing the assets to the location and condition The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all its staff.
necessary for them to be capable of operating in the manner The scheme is externally invested and comprises two sections: a intended by management.
defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which defines an amount Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets, excluding of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
assets in the course of construction, is charged so as to write off It is funded through payments to trustee administered funds, the cost of assets to their residual values over their estimated determined by actuarial valuations carried out on at least a useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: triennial basis.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays agreed contributions into a separate Buildings 50 years fund for each employee and any subsequent pension payable to a Plant & machinery 5 10 years specific employee is determined by the amount accumulated in Fixtures & fittings 3 5 years their individual fund.
These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in The asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be benefit section of the scheme is the present value of the defined recoverable.
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is determined using the The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the projected unit credit method on an annual basis by an difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of independent scheme actuary.
the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Under IAS 19, revised December 2004, the Group has taken the Investment in subsidiary companies option to allow actuarial gains and losses arising from experience In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions to be charged or held at cost.
credited to equity as they arise in full via the statement of recognised income and expense.
Leases Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of Scheme service costs are charged to gross contribution and ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating administrative expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to work are included in net financing costs.
Past service costs are in progress or income on a straight line basis over the term of the recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already relevant lease.
Leases classified as finance leases are those where vested, or otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership pass to the vesting period, if they are conditional on the employees remaining lessee.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of in service for a further period.
the Group at their fair value at the date of acquisition or the present value of monthly lease payments if lower.
58 Accounting policies In respect of the defined contribution section of the scheme, Dividend distribution contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised they are due.
The Group has no further payment obligations in as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme once which the dividends are declared and appropriately authorised.
the contributions have been paid.
Impact of new standards and interpretation b Bonus plans The Group has considered the following new standards, The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where amendments and interpretations and does not expect them to contractually obliged.
have a material effect on the Group.
c Share-based payments a Standards and interpretations in issue The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based - IFRIC 7: Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 - IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after - IFRIC 9: Reassessment of embedded derivatives 7 November 2002, which had not vested as of 1 July 2004.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value on the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the b Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will - IFRS 7: Financial instruments: disclosures eventually vest.
- IFRS 8: Operating segments Financial instruments - IFRIC 10: Interims and impairment a Land creditors - IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted present value using the effective interest - IFRIC 12: Service concession arrangements method, in accordance with IAS 39.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal value is amortised over the deferment period via financing costs.
The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the date of the land purchase.
b Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value and the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are designated and which qualify as cashflow hedges are recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
The gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement immediately they arise.
c Long term trade receivables Long term trade receivables are held at discounted present value.
The amount is then increased to settlement value over the settlement period via financing income.
