Glossary Affordable housing - properties targeted at or reserved for people Off-plan - when a building is bought pre-construction, based on plans who are unable to compete effectively for existing market housing in only, and has yet to be built.
Open market - method of asset disposal that involves advertising an Average selling price ASP - the statistical average selling price of asset eg.
land for sale and inviting bids from prospective properties ie.
total price of homes sold divided by total number of purchasers.
The alternative of private treaty which involves properties.
negotiating with a single potential purchaser to agree terms for the Barker Report - a Government sponsored review of housing supply in disposal of the asset or land.
the UK, undertaken on their behalf by Kate Barker and published in Option - a contract which gives one side the contractual right but not March 2004, containing policy recommendations for improving the an obligation to do something.
functioning of the housing market.
uk Owner occupier -- a home owner who lives in the house that they Brownfield sites - brownfield land is another term for previously own.
developed land, or land that contains or contained a permanent Part exchange - a means of purchasing a new home whereby the structure and associated infrastructure.
purchasers existing property is taken by the developer in part Buy to let - the practice of buying a property for investment purposes, payment for the new home they are buying.
which is then rented out to a tenant.
Planning consent - the permission required by most property CABE Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment - the developers and private individuals in the UK in order to be allowed to Governments advisor on architecture, urban design and public build on, or change the use of, a plot of land or to redevelop an space.
Normally granted by the local planning authority Callcutt Report - Government sponsored review of housing delivery eg.
district council, unitary authority or county council.
Consent can chaired by John Callcutt and due to be published in autumn 2007. be granted in either Outline, awaiting detailed plans: or Detailed CLG Communities and Local Government Policy - targeted at when planning drawings have been submitted and approved.
providing well designed homes in high quality, mixed, thriving and Planning permission - see Planning Consent.
Plot cost - the cost of the land on which one dwelling is built.
Consented land - land which has an outline or detailed planning PPS3 Planning Policy Statement 3: a Government document setting consent.
out the national planning policies for housing, which regional planning Current land - land owned by Redrow which has an outline or detailed bodies and local authorities should take into account in developing planning consent together with land controlled by Redrow, usually regional spatial strategies and local development frameworks.
under contract, where planning consent is being sought.
Recycled land - re-developed brownfield land that has previously Development site - parcel of land which is being developed for been developed for urban uses such as residential, transport, residential, commercial and or mixed use.
EcoHomes - an independent labelling scheme for housing Rental yield - what a landlord can expect to receive in rent expressed administered by the Building Research Establishment BRE, which as a percentage of the purchase price.
assesses the environmental quality of a development.
Reservation - a property that has been reserved for purchase English Partnerships - UK governments national regeneration agency.
normally by payment of a reservation fee but legal contracts have Exchange - when the customer has exchanged contracts to purchase not yet been exchanged between buyer or seller to make the a Redrow home and has usually provided a deposit.
Forward land - land which is owned or controlled by Redrow, generally RICS - Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, the professional body under option, which is being promoted through the planning system representing and regulating property professionals and surveyors of in order to ultimately achieve a planning consent.
Forward sales - reservations and exchanges for homes that will be S106 Section 106 Agreement - Section 106 of the Town and legally completed in a subsequent financial period.
These agreements act as a main Greenfield sites - land that has not previously been used for instrument for placing obligations on developers, often requiring them development, often referring to land in agricultural use.
to minimise the impact on the local community and to invest in Hard soft landscaping - external elements of a development, whether infrastructure to provide community benefits.
private gardens or communal areas.
Hard landscaping includes Social housing - a form of housing tenure in which the property is features such as paving and walls whereas soft landscaping includes owned by a Government authority, which may be central or local.
Sometimes applied more generally to affordable housing usually Home Information Packs HIPs - a pack that home sellers are offered through housing associations on a rented or shared required to compile containing information related to the property ownership basis see affordable housing.
they are selling, inclusive of our Energy Performance Certificate.
Strategic land land bank - see forward land.
House price inflation - the percentage by which house prices have Sustainable -- sustainable development is an approach towards risen in a given period.
development that tries to satisfy peoples basic needs and good Intermediate housing - housing targeted at households with income quality of life without compromising the quality of life for future too low to afford market housing but high enough to be able to afford generations.
more than the rents charged by housing associations.
This can Urban design - the process of shaping the physical setting for life in include various forms of shared ownership housing, key worker cities, towns and villages: the art of making places.
It involves the housing and submarket rent provision.
design of buildings, groups of buildings, spaces and landscapes, and Land bank - a supply of potential development plots.
establishing the processes that make successful development Legal completion - the transfer of legal ownership has contractually possible.
passed from the seller to the purchaser.
Urban regeneration - concerted social, economic and physical action Mixed use - development that combines two or more types of to bring about a lasting improvement in the economic, physical, development, eg.
residential, commercial retail, office, leisure social and environmental condition of an area.
Waste management - process by which products and by-products Mortgage approvals - written notification from the mortgage lender to generated by individuals, businesses and industry are collected, the borrower that approves the advance of a specified amount of stored, transported, treated, disposed of, recycled or reused.
mortgage funds under specified conditions.
Zero carbon home - one with zero net emissions of carbon dioxide National Planning Policy Guidelines - written statements of CO2 from all energy use in the home rather than just those energy Government policy on nationally important land use and other uses that are currently part of building regulations.
