Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of Redrow Resolution 11 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights plc will be held at St Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids Park, That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 as set out in the Flintshire on Wednesday 7 November 2007 at 12 noon for the Notice convening the annual general meeting at which this following purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolution is to be considered and in place of any existing resolutions except numbers 11, 12 and 13 which will be proposed authority given pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act as special resolutions.
1985, the directors be given power pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to make allotments of equity securities as Ordinary business defined in section 94 of the said Act pursuant to the authority Resolution 1 - Annual Report and Accounts contained in the said Resolution 10 and to sell shares which are To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial held in treasury wholly for cash as if section 89 1 of the said Act statements for the year ended 30 June 2007, together with the did not apply to such allotments or sale provided that this power Auditors report.
shall be limited to: Resolution 2 - Dividend i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2007. issue, being an offer of equity securities by way of rights to ordinary shareholders of the Company in proportion as nearly Resolution 3 - Re-appointment of director as may be to their holdings subject to such exclusions or To re-appoint John Tutte as a director.
other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or Resolution 4 - Re-appointment of director practical problems under the laws of or the requirements of To re-appoint Alan Bowkett as a director.
any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of director To re-appoint Bob Bennett as a director.
ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of shares held in treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of Resolution 6 - Re-appointment of director 799,135 and shall unless previously revoked or renewed To re-appoint Denise Jagger as a director.
expire on the date which is the earlier of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 6 February 2009 save that Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of director the said power shall permit the Company to make an offer or To re-appoint Malcolm King as a director.
enter into an agreement before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after Resolution 8 - Re-appointment of Auditors such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in To re-appoint  LLP as external Auditors pursuance of such offer or agreement as if such power to the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general conferred had not expired.
meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Resolution 12 - Authority to purchase own shares That, pursuant to Article 11 of the Companys Articles of Special business Association, the Company is generally and unconditionally Resolution 9 - Remuneration report authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act To approve the remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 1985, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 2007.
163 3 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, and that where such Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares shares are held in treasury, the Company may use them for the That the directors, in place of any existing authority conferred purposes of its employees share schemes, provided that: upon them for the purpose of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all powers of purchased is 15,982,704: the Company to allot and to make offers or agreements to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 of the said Act up to b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an aggregate nominal amount of 5,327,568 provided that this 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company: authority shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the date of the next annual general meeting of the Company but c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is so that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or an amount equal to i 105% of the average of the middle agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the business days immediately preceding the day on which the authority had not expired.
ordinary share is purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and ii that stipulated by Article 5 i of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003 : and 82 Notice of annual general meeting d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Notes: next annual general meeting of the Company or 6 February i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a 2009 whichever may be the earlier except that the Company proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
may before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy partly after such expiry.
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
Resolution 13 - Electronic communications and related changes to the Articles of Association A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be That: completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein a the company be authorised, subject to and in accordance with and returned so as to reach the Companys Registrars not later the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the new than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any Articles of Association, to send, convey or supply all types of adjourned meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not notices, documents, or information to the members by means preclude a shareholder from attending and voting at the of electronic equipment for the processing including digital meeting in person if they so wish.
compression, storage and transmission of data, employing wires, radio optical technologies, or any other electromagnetic ii All shareholders on the Register at 6pm on 5 November 2007 means, including by making such notices, documents or and only those shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at information available on a website: and the annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes to b new Articles of Association be adopted as set out in the form entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in produced to the meeting, and initialled by the Chairman for determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the the purposes of identification in substitution for and to the meeting.
exclusion of all existing Articles of Association of the Company.
iii Copies of the directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the registered office during normal business 10 September 2007 By order of the Board hours on any business day and at the place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes before the meeting is Registered office: held until its conclusion.
Redrow House Graham Cope St. Davids Park Company Secretary iv The register of directors interests in the share capital of the Flintshire Company will be available for inspection at the place of the CH5 3RX meeting from 12 noon on 7 November 2007 until the Registered in England No.
None of the directors has a service contract which cannot be terminated within one year without payment of compensation.
v If you have any questions about the meeting or need any special assistance at the meeting, please contact the Company Secretary at the registered office or telephone 01244 520044 during normal business hours.
Notice of annual general meeting 83 Notice of annual general meeting Explanatory notes to Annual General Meeting resolutions: In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and Resolution 2 - Dividend holds them in treasury, this resolution would give the directors Subject to approval at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on power to sell these shares for cash to persons other than existing 16 November 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of shareholders, subject to the same limit that would apply to issues business on 21 September 2007. of shares for cash to these persons.
Resolution 3-7 - Re-appointment of directors The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the The Companys articles of association require that each director conclusion of the next annual general meeting or 6 February 2009. shall retire from office at the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which he was last elected or, in the Resolution 12 - Authority to purchase own shares case of a new director, to seek re-election at the first annual The directors are seeking authority as in previous years, to make general meeting following appointment.
market purchases of the Companys shares.
Resolution 8 - Re-appointment of Auditors The proposed authority would be limited by the terms of the The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general special resolution to the purchases of 15,982,704 shares, an meeting at which the accounts are presented to shareholders.
aggregate nominal value of 1,598,270 which is equivalent to 10%  LLP were appointed at last years annual of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2007. general meeting and are willing to seek re-appointment this year.
It is normal practice for a Companys directors to be authorised to In the past, such shares would have been cancelled immediately.
If this resolution is passed, the Audit However, The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Committee will approve the fees for recommendation to the Shares Regulations 2003 which came into effect on 1 December Board.
2003 allows companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase as treasury stock, rather than having to cancel them.
Resolution 9 - Remuneration report Such shares can subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used Under the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 companies are required to ask shareholders to vote on the Remuneration report.
The The ability to hold in treasury shares that the Company purchases report is contained on pages 42 to 49 of the Report and Accounts.
pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and Resolution 10 - Authority to allot shares cost-effectively, and would provide the Company with additional Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Shareholders directors in previous years to allot unissued shares.
If passed, should note that this resolution explicitly authorises the Company resolution 10 would renew this authority by authorising the to use any shares purchased and held in treasury for the purposes directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of of the Companys employee share schemes.
If any shares were used 5,327,568. in this way, the Company would take them into account when calculating the share issuing limits in the schemes, as long as The authority will expire on the date of the next annual general required under the Guidelines of the Association of British meeting of the Company.
shares of 10p each and is equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital.
Details of any shares purchased pursuant to the proposed authority would be notified to the London Stock Exchange by 7.30am on Resolution 11 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights the business day following the purchase and to the Registrar of The directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are not Companies within 28 days.
Details would also be included in the already shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so by the Companys Annual Report and Accounts in respect of the shareholders in a general meeting.
This resolution renews financial period in which any such purchases take place.
authority for the directors to allot shares for cash without first The authority set out in the special resolution will expire on offering them to existing members up to an aggregate nominal whichever is the earlier of the end of the next annual general amount of 799,135.
This sum represents 7,991,352 ordinary meeting or 6 February 2009 and the resolution specifies the shares of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be Companys current issued share capital.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels enables the directors to modify the strict requirements for a rights and the overall financial position of the Company will be taken issue in circumstances where they consider it necessary or into account before deciding upon the course of action.
The directors would exercise this authority only if they felt it would be in the best interests of the Company to do so and would increase earnings per share.
To the extent that any such shares were held in treasury, earnings per share would only be increased on a temporary basis, until the shares were transferred out of treasury.
84 Notice of annual general meeting Resolution 13 - Electronic communications and related changes a To elect to receive communications from the Company via the to the Articles of Association Companys website, with notification of the availability of Resolution 13 is a special resolution to seek general authority from shareholder information to your email address.
To choose this shareholders for the Company to send or supply documents or option, simply follow the steps described in Option A on the information to shareholders in electronic form or by means of a Form: website, so taking advantage of new company legislation regarding electronic communications with shareholders, which became b To elect to continue to receive paper copy documents.
To choose this option, place a cross in the box under Option B on the Form and return it in the pre-paid envelope: or Existing company legislation permits the Company to communicate with shareholders electronically e. g. by fax, email c Not to respond with an election under Options A or B or by means of a website in respect of certain types of information described above by 6 December 2007: in which case, you will they receive from the Company.
However, the new legislation be deemed to have agreed to the communication of makes two important changes: shareholder information by means of a website and the Company will, at the appropriate time, notify you in writing to All Company notices, documents and other information your registered address of the availability of shareholder shareholder information can now be provided to information on the Companys website.
shareholders electronically, provided that they agree to this and provide an appropriate e. g. email address: and The resolution also makes various changes to the Articles of Association to reflect the new legislation on electronic If shareholders are invited to agree that the Company may communications.
send or supply shareholder information by means of a website, those who do not respond by 6 December 2007 are deemed to Summary of changes to the Articles of Association have agreed to the Company communicating shareholder The amendments to the Articles of Association that are proposed information to them by means of a website.
to be adopted at the AGM by Resolution 13 reflect certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 which have Where shareholders agree or are deemed to have agreed to been brought into force relating to electronic communications communication of shareholder information by means of a website, between companies and their shareholders.
shareholders must be notified of the availability of the relevant document or information on the website, the address of the This summary of the proposed amendments has been prepared in website, the place on the website where it may be accessed and order to assist shareholders in understanding the rationale for and how to access the document or information.
This information will substance of the proposed amendments.
The number identifying be provided to shareholders by post or by email if they have each Article, unless otherwise indicated, corresponds to the provided the Company with an email address for this purpose.
numbering used in our current Articles of Association.
Increased use of electronic communications will deliver significant Articles 71 and new Articles 74A and 74B Proxies savings to the Company in terms of administration, printing and The amendment in Article 2 to the definition of writing will postage costs.
It will also speed up the communication of mean that under Article 71 the Company will be able to receive information to shareholders in a convenient form, whilst at the appointments of proxies in electronic form subject to the same time delivering significant environmental benefits through conditions or limitations which are specified in the notice of reduced use of paper and of the energy required for its production meeting, Article 74, which sets out the form of the proxy has been and distribution.
modified with the addition of new article 74A, which deals with the procedure for authenticating proxy appointments, and new Accordingly, Resolution 13 is being proposed to confer the article 74B which empowers the Board to permit electronic proxy necessary authority on the Company.
instructions sent by means of a relevant system to such participant in that system acting on behalf of the Company as the Board may The Company would like to take advantage of the new legislation prescribe.
Article 81 Appointment and Retirement of Directors You will find enclosed with this AGM Notice a letter from The amendments to Article 81 deal with the authentication of Computershare entitled Your communications - your choice notice given to the Secretary of a members intention to propose a the Form which is an invitation to you to select the means you person other than a director at the general meeting for prefer the Company to use to send you shareholder information.
re-election to the office of director and notice given to the Please read the information on the Form carefully.
Subject to Secretary of the person to be proposeds willingness to be elected.
Resolution 13 being passed at the AGM, the options available to you are: Notice of annual general meeting 85 Notice of annual general meeting Article 127 Proceedings of the Directors The amendment in Article 2 to the definition of writing will mean that under Article 127 the directors will be able to indicate their assent to a resolution in writing by electronic means.
The amendments to Article 127 deal with the authentication of the directors assent to such a resolution.
New Articles 154 to 160 Service of Notices The new Articles 154 to 160 will permit the Company to send all notices, documents and information by electronic means and or by making them available on a website, and the Company Communications Provisions as defined in section 1143 CA 2006 shall apply to all such communications.
Deemed notice provisions replace the default statutory provisions, so that notices are deemed to have been received: i where dispatched by post, 24 hours or 48 hours where first class post is not used after posting ii where electronic means are used, 24 hours following transmission: and iii in the case of website communications, when material is made available on a website or, if later, on receipt of notice of such availability.
New Articles 161 to 163 Joint Holders New Article 161 has been added to override paragraph 16 of Schedule 5 of CA 2006 and permit the Company to take to be agreed or specified by all the joint shareholders of a share anything which has been agreed or specified by the joint holder whose name stands first in the Register in respect of the share.
New Article 162 reflects the position in Article 154 of the previous Articles.
New Article 164 Deceased and Bankrupt members New Article 164 has been added to override paragraph 17 of Schedule 5 of CA 2006 and entitle the Company to be supplied, from someone claiming to be entitled to a share in consequence of death or bankruptcy of a member or otherwise by operation of law, with evidence to show that persons title to the share and with an address at which notices may be sent or supplied to such person, whereupon that person will be entitled to have sent or supplied to him at such address any notice, document or information.
New Article 169 Signature or Authentication of Documents Sent by Electronic Means This Article is necessary to provide for sufficient authentication of any notice or other document sent or supplied in electronic form where the Articles require such notice or other document to be signed or authenticated by any member or other person.
Documents available for your inspection Copies of the existing Articles of Association, and a copy marked up to show the differences between the existing Articles of Association and the Articles of Association proposed to be amended by Resolution 13 will be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to Friday each week public holiday excepted at the office of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ from the date of this document up to and including the date of the annual general meeting and at the place of the annual general meeting from 10.45am until the close of the meeting.
86 Notice of annual general meeting 5 year summary 12 months ended 30 June IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m # Turnover 795.7 770.1 780.4 669.9 607.9 Operating profit before financing costs 136.6 132.8 154.0 132.7 113.7 Operating profit before financing costs as a percentage of turnover 17.2% 17.2% 19.7% 19.8% 18.7% Profit before taxation 120.5 120.5 139.0 124.1 106.1 Profit before taxation as a percentage of turnover 15.1% 15.6% 17.8% 18.5% 17.4% Net assets 577.8 513.8 452.5 376.6 302.0 Net debt 177.6 129.8 103.2 130.7 93.2 Gearing net debt as a percentage of capital and reserves 30.7% 25.3% 22.8% 34.7% 30.9% Return on capital employed operating profit, adjusted for joint ventures, as a percentage of opening and closing capital employed 19.4% 22.0% 28.7% 29.4% 31.3% Number of legal completions 4,823 4,735 4,372 4,284 4,031 Earnings per ordinary share 52.9p 52.9p 60.7p 54.8p 46.9p Dividends per ordinary share 15.6p 13.0p 10.8p 9.0p 7.5p Net assets per ordinary share 361.5p 322.0p 284.3p 237.1p 190.0p # Restated in 2006 for IFRS Restated in 2004 for impact of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts 5 year summary 87
