Where we operate Redrow has a balanced portfolio of new developments across the UK.
Our regional structure provides on the ground expertise, allowing our teams to take advantage of local opportunities and build strong relationships with land owners, land agents, planners, subcontractors and our customers.
Company offices and examples of current developments 4 Redrow Homes Yorkshire Limited Example Development: Debut @ Selby - the development Over 30% represents the first of Redrows innovative and award winning Debut schemes in Yorkshire.
Comprising 123 one of plots acquired in 2006 07 were and two bedroom homes, on the site of the former Providence Mill in Selby.
pulled through from our forward land bank 5 Redrow Homes Midlands Limited Example Development: Hemisphere, Edgbaston - Redrows first joint development with one of Birminghams biggest landowners.
Hemisphere comprises 344 apartments and penthouses as part of the 100 million, nine acre Edgbaston Mill mixed use scheme adjacent to Edgbaston Cricket Ground.
1 6 Redrow Homes South Midlands Limited Example Development: Loves Farm, St Neots, Cambridgeshire - a 12 acre portion of a major new development adjacent to St Neots station where Redrow will create 256 new homes which capture the essence of our urban design philosophy.
7 Redrow Homes Eastern Limited Example Development: The Rodings, Loughton, Essex - a ten acre site close to Epping Forest where, by incorporating the 2 Essex Design guide with our own design principles, we will create a new sustainable community of over 250 houses and 4 apartments.
3 8 Redrow Homes Southern Limited Example Development: Farnborough Central, Farnborough - 5 formerly part of the Royal Aircraft Establishment headquarters, Redrow worked with the owner to secure 6 change of use on this 12 acre site that will comprise 476 new and refurbished homes, with a developable value of c. 85 million.
7 12 9 9 Redrow Homes South Wales Limited 10 8 Example Development: Alexandra Gate, Newport, Gwent - leading the multi million pound regeneration of Newport, this waterfront development of approximately 400 houses and 11 apartments is situated on the site of the former Black Clawson engineering works, overlooking the River Usk.
10 Redrow Homes South West Limited Example Development: Cheswick, North Bristol - a flagship 77 acre sustainable development comprising a high quality 1 Redrow Homes Scotland Limited urban village of 1,250 plus new homes and a mixed use Example Development: Riverside Point, Braehead - part of neighbourhood centre that follows best practice urban design one of the biggest new build residential projects in Scotland, principles for a safe and ecologically sound place to live and on brownfield land just outside Glasgow.
homes benefits from an overall master plan for redevelopment of the whole area, including M8 junction 11 Redrow Homes West Country Limited improvements, road upgrades and a new riverside park.
Example Development: Vision at Devonport - a major regeneration programme in association with English 2 Redrow Homes Lancashire Limited Partnerships, which is transforming the former MoD South Example Development: Fleetwood - a development of 380 Yard stores enclave into a mixed use neighbourhood of 463 houses and apartments on 22 acres of disused land around new homes, shops, offices and community facilities.
It forms part of landowner Associated British Ports wider vision for a new Fleetwood 12 Redrow Regeneration plc Harbour Village.
Example Development: Barking Town Square - an award winning designed scheme where, in partnership with the 3 Redrow Homes North West Limited London Borough of Barking and Dagenham, Redrow is Example Development: Woodland Grange, Port Sunlight, regenerating the Town Square area which includes over 500 Wirral - previously part of the Unilever Port Sunlight complex, apartments, a Life Long Learning Centre and 40,000 sq ft of Redrow has worked alongside Unilever and Wirral commercial space.
Metropolitan Borough Council to design and secure planning for a development of 192 houses and apartments on the 16 Redrows Exeter based operation is part of the larger South West regional acre site which captures themes from the historic village.
