Awards In recent years, Redrow has won an enviable number of national, regional and development awards, recognising our achievements in terms of design, innovation, sustainability initiatives, service quality and overall business performance.
We are justifiably proud of our successes.
National Awards Major House Builder of the Year Housing Project of the Year The Building Awards 2006 Mail on Sunday British Homes Awards 2007 Redrow has taken the Barker Review to heart, prioritising Commendation for Vision @ Devonport affordability, modern methods of construction and sustainability.
It has imposed a legal framework to prevent Debut homes being Best Apartment snapped up by investors and the range has achieved the BRE London Evening Standard Property Awards 2007 EcoHomes rating of excellent.
The penthouse at The Boardwalk, Eastbourne Best Volume House Builder - Silver Sustainability Award What House?
Awards 2006 North Wales Built in Quality Awards 2007 First time buyers the forgotten generation.
Without starter Debut @ St Davids Park homes as the name suggests the market is going nowhere.
The volume house builders, with the turning circle of an oil Best Waterside Development - Highly Commended tanker not a speedboat, have for the most part been slow to Your New Home Awards 2006 respond, which is why Redrow should be applauded for what the The Boardwalk, Eastbourne company itself hails as its biggest achievement over the last 12 months.
Redrow is a true all-rounder, responding to the needs of Best Starter Home - Gold the market across all sectors.
Awards 2006 Debut @ Buckshaw Village, Chorley.
Overall House Builder of the Year Your New Home Awards 2005 Best Sustainable Development - Silver The impact of Redrows affordable range of housing and clever What House?
Awards 2006 financial concept has dramatically altered the perception of Debut @ Willans Green, Rugby starter homes and has provided real hope for the masses of eager buyers who once thought they were priced out of the Best Exterior Design - Bronze market.
Redrow is a worthy winner and one that should be What House?
Awards 2006 congratulated for their efforts.
The Boardwalk, Eastbourne TSC Marketplace Innovation Award - Highly Commended Ecohomes Winner Business in the Community Awards for Excellence 2007 BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Debut by Redrow Assessment Method Award 2006 Debut @ Willans Green, Rugby Best Website - Highly Commended Your New Home Awards 2006 Best Major Restoration Gloucester City Council Civic Awards 2006 Collingwood Crescent, Gloucester Regional and Development Awards Welsh Housing Design Award Royal Society of Architects in Wales Awards 2006 Best Large Business The Esplanade, Porthcawl Daily Post Achievement Wales Awards 2006 Best Residential Developer Best Townhouse West Midlands Business Insider Awards 2006 Birmingham Post House Design Awards 2006 Redrow Homes Midlands The Edge, Dickens Heath, Solihull Residential Developer of the Year Best Starter Home Liverpool Daily Post and Echo Property Awards 2006 Manchester Evening News Property Awards 2006 Redrow Homes North West & Redrow Homes Lancashire Debut @ Buckshaw Village, Chorley Architectural Review Future Project Award 2007 Best Development for First Time Buyers MIPIM Marche Internationale des professionels fide limmobilier Your New Home Awards 2005 Barking Central, Barking Town Centre Debut @ Willans Green, Rugby Sustainable Communities Award Best New Build Village Royal Town Planning Institute Awards 2007 Your New Home Awards 2005 Vision, as part of Regenerating Devonport Buckshaw Village, Chorley 88 Awards
