Reed Elsevier PLC 154 Group accounting policies When foreign operations are disposed of, the related Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been cumulative translation differences are recognised within the income statement in the period.
prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Taxation They report the consolidated statements of income, cash flow and financial position of The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the current year taxable profits, Reed Elsevier PLC, and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting adjustments in respect of prior year taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax that are Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and as issued by the International recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint ventures is included in the share of results Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in the financial statements are in millions of pounds.
The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated using the applicable tax rate that has The basis of the merger of the businesses of been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 42.
Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences Determination of profit between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the Reed Elsevier combined results has been calculated on the basis corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the of the 52.9% economic interest of the Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders in the Reed Elsevier combined balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable businesses, after taking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier PLC and its subsidiaries.
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, based on current Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in forecasts, it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain differences can be utilised.
In Reed Elsevier PLCs consolidated financial statements, Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability an adjustment is required to equalise the benefit of the tax credit between the two sets of shareholders is settled or the asset is realised.
Full provision is made for deferred tax which would become in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
This equalisation adjustment arises on dividends payable on the distribution of retained profits from foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and reduces the consolidated attributable earnings by Movements in deferred tax are charged and 47.1% of the total amount of the tax credit.
credited in the income statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited directly The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Standards, amendments and interpretations Investments Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in not yet effective Recently issued standards, amendments and the net assets of the combined businesses has been shown on the balance sheet as investments interpretations when adopted are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated in joint ventures, net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier PLC and its financial statements.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Foreign exchange translation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
The exchange gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of the combined businesses are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
