Combined financial statements 96 Accounting policies The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements additional performance measures.
Adjusted figures are prepared in accordance with International are shown before the amortisation of acquired Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed intangible assets, acquisition integration costs, by the European Union and as issued by the disposals and other non operating items, related tax International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
effects and movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in The Reed Elsevier accounting policies under IFRS the near term.
Adjusted operating profits are also are set out below.
grossed up to exclude the equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
Adjusted operating cash flow is Basis of preparation measured after dividends from joint ventures and The equalisation agreement between Reed net capital expenditure, but before payments in Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV has the effect relation to acquisition integration costs.
that their shareholders can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Reed Foreign exchange translation Elsevier combined financial statements the The combined financial statements are presented combined financial statements represent the in pounds sterling.
Additional information providing combined interests of both sets of shareholders a translation into euros of the primary Reed and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Elsevier combined financial statements and Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their selected notes is presented on pages 133 to 146. respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the parent companies, Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the the combined businesses.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in In preparing the combined financial statements, foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate subsidiaries of Reed Elsevier Group plc and prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange Elsevier Reed Finance BV are accounted for differences arising are recorded in the income under the purchase method and investments in statement other than where hedge accounting associates and joint ventures are accounted for applies see Financial Instruments.
All transactions and balances between the combined businesses Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are are eliminated.
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items On acquisition of a subsidiary, or interest in an and cash flows of foreign operations are translated associate or joint venture, fair values, reflecting at the average exchange rate for the period.
conditions at the date of acquisition, are Significant individual items of income and expense attributed to the net assets, including identifiable and cash flows in foreign operations are translated intangible assets, acquired.
This includes those at the rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
adjustments made to bring accounting policies Exchange differences arising are classified as equity into line with those of the combined businesses.
and transferred to the translation reserve.
When The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are foreign operations are disposed of, the related included in the combined financial statements up cumulative translation differences are recognised to or from the date that control passes from or to within the income statement in the period.
Reed Elsevier uses derivative financial instruments, Minority interests in the net assets of the combined primarily forward contracts, to hedge its exposure businesses are identified separately from combined to certain foreign exchange risks.
Details of Reed shareholders equity.
Minority interests consist of Elseviers accounting policies in respect of the amount of those interests at the date of the derivative financial instruments are set out below.
original acquisition and the minority share of changes in equity since the date of acquisiton.
Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales These financial statements form part of the less anticipated returns on transactions completed statutory information to be provided by Reed by performance, excluding customer sales taxes Elsevier NV, but are not for a legal entity and do and sales between the combined businesses.
not include all the information required to be disclosed by a company in its financial statements Revenues are recognised for the various categories under the UK Companies Act 1985 or the Dutch of turnover as follows: subscriptions on periodic Civil Code.
Additional information is given in the despatch of subscribed product or rateably over Annual Reports and Financial Statements of the the period of the subscription where performance parent companies set out on pages 147 to 187.
A is not measurable by despatch: circulation on list of principal businesses is set out on page 198. despatch: advertising on publication or over the period of online display: exhibitions on occurrence In addition to the figures required to be reported by of the exhibition: educational testing contracts applicable accounting standards, adjusted profit and over the term of the contract on percentage operating cash flow figures have been presented as completed against contract milestones.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 97 Where sales consist of two or more independent been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the components whose value can be reliably balance sheet date.
measured, revenue is recognised on each component as it is completed by performance, Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences based on attribution of relative value.
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their Employee benefits corresponding tax bases used in the computation of The expense of defined benefit pension schemes taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance and other post-retirement employee benefits sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are is determined using the projected unit credit generally recognised for all taxable temporary method and charged in the income statement differences and deferred tax assets are recognised as an operating expense, based on actuarial to the extent that, based on current forecasts, it assumptions reflecting market conditions at the is probable that taxable profits will be available beginning of the financial year.
Actuarial gains against which deductible temporary differences can and losses are recognised in full in the statement be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised on of recognised income and expense in the period temporary differences arising in respect of goodwill in which they occur.
Past service costs are that is not deductible for tax purposes.
recognised immediately to the extent that benefits have vested, or, if not vested, on a straight Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are line basis over the period until the benefits vest.
expected to apply in the period when the liability is expected to be settled or the asset realised.
Full Net pension obligations in respect of defined provision is made for deferred tax which would benefit schemes are included in the balance sheet become payable on the distribution of retained at the present value of scheme liabilities, less the profits from foreign subsidiaries, associates or fair value of scheme assets.
Where schemes are joint ventures.
in surplus, i. e. assets exceed liabilities, the net pension assets are separately included in the Movements in deferred tax are charged or credited balance sheet.
Any net pension asset is limited to in the income statement, except when they relate the extent that the asset is recoverable through to items charged or credited directly to equity, in reductions in future contributions.
which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax credits in respect of share The expense of defined contribution pension based remuneration are recognised in equity to schemes and other employee benefits is charged the extent that expected tax deductions exceed the in the income statement as incurred.
Share based remuneration Goodwill The fair value of share based remuneration is On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the determined at the date of grant and recognised as purchase consideration is allocated between the an expense in the income statement on a straight net tangible and intangible assets on a fair value line basis over the vesting period, taking account of basis, with any excess purchase consideration the estimated number of shares that are expected representing goodwill.
Goodwill arising on to vest.
Market based performance criteria are acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding taken into account when determining the fair to deferred tax liabilities recognised in respect of value at the date of grant.
Non-market based acquired intangible assets.
performance criteria are taken into account when estimating the number of shares expected to vest.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed The fair value of share based remuneration is for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment determined by use of a binomial or Monte Carlo is recognised immediately in the income statement simulation model as appropriate.
All Reed Elseviers and not subsequently reversed.
share based remuneration is equity settled.
On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the Borrowing costs attributable amount of goodwill is included in the All interest on borrowings is expensed as incurred.
determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The cost of issuing borrowings is expensed over the life of the borrowings so as to produce a Intangible assets constant periodic rate of charge.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are stated in the balance sheet at Taxation their fair value as at the date of acquisition, less The tax expense represents the sum of the tax accumulated amortisation.
Internally generated payable on the current year taxable profits, intangible assets are stated in the balance sheet adjustments in respect of prior year taxable profits, at the directly attributable cost of creation of the and the movements on deferred tax that are asset, less accumulated amortisation.
recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets acquired as part of business The tax payable on current year taxable profits is combinations comprise: market related assets calculated using the applicable tax rates that have e. g. trade marks, imprints, brands : customer Combined financial statements 98 Accounting policies related assets e. g. subscription bases, customer Investments in joint ventures and associates are lists, customer relationships : editorial content: accounted for under the equity method and stated software and systems e. g. application in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted for postinfrastructure, product delivery platforms, acquisition changes in Reed Elseviers share of in-process research and development : contract net assets, less any impairment in value.
based assets e. g. publishing rights, exhibition rights, supply contracts : and other intangible Impairment assets.
Internally generated intangible assets At each balance sheet date, reviews are carried out typically comprise software and systems of the carrying amounts of tangible and intangible development where an identifiable asset is assets and goodwill to determine whether there created that is probable to generate future is any indication that those assets have suffered economic benefits.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated Intangible assets, other than brands and imprints in order to determine the extent, if any, of the determined to have indefinite lives, are amortised impairment loss.
Where the asset does not systematically over their estimated useful lives.
generate cash flows that are independent from The estimated useful lives of intangible assets with other assets, estimates are made based on the finite lives are as follows: market and customer cash flows of the cash generating unit to which related assets 3 to 40 years: content, software the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with an and other acquired intangible assets 3 to 20 indefinite useful life are tested for impairment years: and internally developed intangible assets at least annually and whenever there is any 3 to 10 years.
Brands and imprints determined indication that the asset may be impaired.
to have indefinite lives are not amortised and are subject to impairment review at least annually.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its net Property, plant and equipment carrying amount, the net carrying amount of the Property, plant and equipment are stated in the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to balance sheet at cost less accumulated its recoverable amount.
No depreciation is provided on recognised immediately in the income statement.
Freehold buildings and long leases are depreciated over their estimated useful lives Inventories and pre-publication costs up to a maximum of 50 years.
Short leases are Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at written off over the duration of the lease.
the lower of cost, including appropriate attributable Depreciation is provided on other assets on a overhead, and estimated net realisable value.
straight line basis over their estimated useful lives Pre-publication costs, representing costs incurred as follows: leasehold improvements shorter of in the origination of content prior to publication, are life of lease and 10 years: plant 3 to 20 years: expensed systematically reflecting the expected office furniture, fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: sales profile over the estimated economic lives of computer systems, communication networks and the related products, generally up to five years.
Leases Investments Assets held under leases which confer rights and Investments, other than investments in joint obligations similar to those attaching to owned ventures and associates, are stated in the balance assets are classified as assets held under finance sheet at fair value.
Investments held as part of the leases and capitalised within property, plant and venture capital portfolio are classified as held for equipment and the corresponding liability to pay trading, with changes in fair value reported rentals is shown net of interest in the balance through the income statement.
All other sheet as obligations under finance leases.
The investments are classified as available for sale capitalised value of the assets is depreciated on with changes in fair value recognised directly in a straight line basis over the shorter of the periods equity until the investment is disposed of or is of the leases or the useful lives of the assets determined to be impaired, at which time the concerned.
The interest element of the lease cumulative gain or loss previously recognised payments is allocated so as to produce a constant in equity is brought into the net profit or loss for periodic rate of charge.
All items recognised in the income statement relating to investments, other than Operating lease rentals are charged to the income investments in joint ventures and associates, statement on a straight line basis over the period are reported as non operating items.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term Available for sale investments and venture capital of the relevant lease.
investments held for trading represent investments in listed and unlisted securities.
The Cash and cash equivalents fair value of listed securities is determined based Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities balances, call deposits and other short term highly on managements estimate of fair value based on liquid investments and are held in the balance standard valuation techniques.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 99 Derivative financial instruments that are not Assets held for sale Assets of businesses that are available for designated as hedging instruments are classified as held for trading and recorded in the balance immediate sale in their current condition and for which a sales process has been initiated are sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
classified as assets held for sale, and are carried at the lower of amortised cost and fair value less Where an effective hedge is in place against costs to sell.
Non-current assets are not amortised or depreciated following their changes in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings are adjusted for changes classification as held for sale.
Liabilities of businesses held for sale are also separately in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding income or expense included classified on the balance sheet.
The offsetting gains or losses from remeasuring the fair value of the Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the related derivatives are also recognised in the income statement.
combined businesses that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale.
When an operation is classified as options, forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts represent the discontinued, the comparative income and cash flow statements are re-presented as if the replacement costs calculated using market rates of interest and exchange.
The fair value of long operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
term borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at market rates.
Financial instruments Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging Financial instruments comprise investments other than investments in joint ventures or instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge associates, trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, payables and accruals, provisions, accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
equity is either retained in equity until the firm commitment or forecasted transaction occurs, or, Investments other than investments in joint ventures and associates are classified as either where a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, is immediately credited or expensed in held for trading or available for sale, as described above.
Trade receivables are carried in the balance sheet On adoption of IAS39 Financial Instruments, adjustments were made either to the carrying at invoiced value less allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Irrecoverable amounts value of hedged items or to equity, as appropriate, to reflect the differences between the previous UK are estimated based on the ageing of trade receivables, experience and circumstance.
GAAP carrying values of financial instruments and their carrying values required to be reported under Borrowings other than fixed rate borrowings in IAS39.
Any transition gains or losses on financial instruments that qualified for hedge accounting designated hedging relationships and for which the carrying value is adjusted to reflect changes in the were reflected in equity and remain in equity until either the forecasted transaction occurs or is no fair value of the hedged risk, payables, accruals and provisions are recorded at nominal value.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge Provisions Provisions are recognised when a present interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments obligation exists as a result of a past event, and it is probable that settlement of the obligation will be that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised net of tax required.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
If a hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction results obligation at the balance sheet date.
in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, then, at the time that the asset or liability Shares held in treasury Shares of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised that are repurchased by the respective parent companies and not cancelled are classified as in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result shares held in treasury.
The consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income as a deduction from equity.
Shares of the parent companies that are purchased by the Reed statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Any ineffective Elsevier Group plc Employee Benefit Trust are also classified as shares held in treasury, with portion of hedges is recognised immediately in the income statement.
the cost recognised as a deduction from equity.
Combined financial statements 100 Accounting policies Amendment to IAS23 Borrowing Costs effective Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty for the 2009 financial year.
The amendment removes the option to immediately recognise as The most significant accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of an expense borrowing costs relating to assets requiring a substantial period of time to get ready the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, and those requiring the most subjective or complex for use or sale and requires such costs to be capitalised.
Adoption of this standard will change judgement, relate to the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, share based remuneration, our accounting policy on borrowing costs but is not expected to significantly impact the presentation pensions and taxation.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at or disclosure of borrowing costs in the combined financial statements.
least twice a year, the key areas of judgement being in relation to the forecast long term growth Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial rates and the appropriate discount rates to be applied to forecast cash flows.
The charge for Statements effective for the 2009 financial year.
The amendment introduces changes to the way share based remuneration is determined based on the fair value of awards at the date of grant by use in which movements in equity must be disclosed and requires an entity to separately disclose each of binomial or Monte Carlo simulation models as appropriate, which require judgements to be made component of other comprehensive income not recognised in profit or loss.
The amendment also regarding share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rates of return and expected option lives.
Key requires disclosure of the amount of income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive estimates in accounting for defined benefit pension schemes are determined in conjunction with income as well as several other minor disclosure amendments.
Other than as described above, independent actuaries and include the life expectancy of members, expected salary and this amendment is not expected to significantly change the presentation of the combined pension increases, inflation, the return on scheme assets and the rate at which future pension financial statements.
Reed Elseviers policy is to make provision for tax uncertainties where it is IFRIC14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their considered probable that tax payments may arise.
Interaction effective for the 2008 financial year.
The interpretation clarifies how to assess the Standards effective for the year IFRS7 Financial instruments: Disclosures, which limit in IAS19 Employee Benefits on the amount of a defined benefit pension surplus that can contains various requirements concerning the disclosure of financial instruments, is adopted in be recognised as an asset.
Adoption of this interpretation is not expected to significantly the combined financial statements for the first time.
The adoption of this standard has not impact the measurement, presentation or disclosure of employee benefits in the combined significantly impacted the presentation of the combined financial statements.
An amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Amendments to IFRS3 Business Combinations effective for the 2010 financial year.
The Statements Capital Disclosures, which introduces disclosures about an entitys capital and amendments introduce changes that will require acquisition related costs including professional how it is managed, has been adopted for the first time.
Reed Elseviers policy on capital fees previously capitalised to be expensed and adjustments to contingent consideration to be management is set out on pages 32 and 33 of the Operating and Financial Review.
recognised in income and will allow the full goodwill method to be used when accounting for Standards, amendments and interpretations non-controlling interests.
not yet effective New accounting standards and amendments and Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective for the 2010 financial their expected impact on the future accounting policies and reporting of Reed Elsevier are set year.
The amendments introduce changes to the accounting for partial disposals of subsidiaries, out below.
Adoption of these amendments is not expected to significantly impact IFRS8 Operating Segments effective for the 2009 financial year.
IFRS8 sets out requirements for the measurement, presentation or disclosure of future disposals.
disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments, its products and services, Additionally, a number of interpretations have been the geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers.
IFRS8 replaces IAS14 issued which are not expected to have any significant impact on Reed Elseviers accounting Segment Reporting.
Adoption of this standard is not expected to change significantly the disclosure policies and reporting.
of information in respect of Reed Elseviers operating segments.
