Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 193 Shareholder information Information for Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shareholders Shareholder services The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is administered by Equiniti Limited.
Enquiries concerning ordinary shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and notification of change of personal details should be referred to Equiniti Limited at the address shown on page 196.
Electronic communications Shareholders who have not registered for electronic communications can do so online Annual Reports and Financial Statements at www.
co. uk, quoting their The Annual Reports and Financial shareholder account number, which appears Statements for the Reed Elsevier on their dividend tax voucher.
The website combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC also enables shareholders to view details of and Reed Elsevier NV, for the year ended their own shareholding or electronically 31 December 2007 are available on the appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf on any Reed Elsevier website, or from the poll that may be held at the forthcoming registered offices of the respective Annual General Meeting.
Additional financial information is also available on Following recent changes in legislation the Company will be seeking authority to amend the Reed Elsevier website, including the Reed Elsevier combined financial its Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting to enable it to make statements in euros, Interim and Preliminary Results announcements electronic communication with shareholders the default position.
Shareholders who hold their Reed Elsevier Interim results PLC shares through CREST may appoint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV proxies through the CREST electronic proxy do not intend to publish future interim appointment service for the forthcoming results in hard copy.
The interim Annual General Meeting by using the results will be available on the Reed procedures described in the CREST manual.
Dividends Share price information Dividends on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are shares are declared and paid in sterling.
quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are society account.
This method of payment quoted on the Euronext Stock Exchange reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend in Amsterdam.
cheques in the post and ensures the account is credited on the dividend payment date.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are quoted on the Dividend reinvestment plan New York Stock Exchange in the form of Shareholders can choose to reinvest American Depositary Shares ADSs, dividends by purchasing further shares evidenced by American Depositary through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan Receipts ADRs.
A DRIP application form can be obtained from the Reed Elsevier PLC The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Registrar at www.
co. uk dividends, Elsevier NV ordinary share prices and or by contacting Equiniti at the address the ADR prices may be obtained from shown on page 196. the Reed Elsevier website, other online sources and the financial pages of many newspapers.
For further information visit 8 www.
com Shareholder information 194 Shareholder information continued ShareGift were issued for every 67 existing ordinary shares held, to give an equivalent amount of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a 51 charity share donation scheme for 40.72p for each new ordinary share of 14 116p nominal value.
shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to Unsolicited mail sell them.
Details of the scheme can be obtained from the ShareGift website Reed Elsevier PLC, along with other publicly owned companies, is legally obliged to make www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7337 0501. its share register available to anyone who requests a copy.
Share dealing service Shareholders may receive unsolicited mail A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Reed Elsevier PLCs from organisations offering their services.
To limit the receipt of such unsolicited mail, Registrar, which provides a simple way for UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed shareholders should contact the Mailing Preference Service MPS on 0845 703 4599, Elsevier PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and or online at www.
uk, or by writing to MPS for a registration form at: 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
You will need your shareholder account number shown on your dividend tax voucher.
Shareholders may still, however, receive Individual savings accounts ISA unsolicited mail from organisations that do not subscribe to the MPS service.
A single company ISA for Reed Elsevier PLC shares is available through the companys Warning about unsolicited investment Registrar.
Details may be obtained by writing to Equiniti at the address shown on contacts Over the last year many companies have page 196, or by calling their ISA helpline on 0871 384 2244 calls charged at 8p per become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or minute from a BT landline, other telephony providers costs may vary.
These are typically from overseas Sub-division of ordinary shares and share based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to consolidation On 28 July 1986 each Reed Elsevier PLC be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
Shareholders are advised to be ordinary share of 1 nominal value was subdivided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Subsequently, on 2 May 1997, the 25p ordinary shares were sub-divided into two ordinary company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: On 7 January 2008 the existing ordinary shares of 12.5p each were consolidated into 51 Make sure you get the correct name of new ordinary shares of 14 116p nominal value, on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares for the person and organisation.
every 67 existing ordinary shares held.
Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services Authority before Capital gains tax The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs getting involved.
1 ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 282p, which should be adjusted for The FSA also maintains on its website a subsequent events, in particular the four for one sub-division in 1986 and the two for one list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK sub-division in 1997.
This gives an equivalent amount of 35.25p for each 12.5p share.
investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the The above value of 35.25p should also be FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action adusted for the January 2008 share consolidation, when 58 new ordinary shares can be considered.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 195 If you deal with an unauthorised firm, basis of 58 new ordinary shares for every you would not be eligible to receive 67 existing ordinary shares held.
payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can Shareholder Communications Channel be contacted by calling their consumer for Reed Elsevier NV shareholders helpline on 0845 606 1234, or emailing Reed Elsevier NV has entered into operationarchway@ arrangements with Stichting cityoflondon.
Communicatiekanaal Aandeelhouders Shareholder Communication Channel Inform Reed Elsevier PLCs Registrar at Trustee in the Netherlands, facilitating the the address shown on page 196.
They are communication with and between not able to investigate such incidents shareholders, particularly in connection with themselves but will record the details general meetings of shareholders.
Under and pass them on to Reed Elsevier PLC these arrangements, holders of Reed and liaise with the FSA.
Elsevier NV bearer shares whose shares are held in the custody of a Dutch bank, and who More detailed information on this or similar have notified the intermediary authority activity can be found on the FSA website appointed for these purposes of their www.
interest, will receive written information from the company with a proxy form for Information for Reed Elsevier NV their representation at general ordinary shareholders shareholders meetings.
Shareholder enquiries Information for Reed Elsevier PLC Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier NV ADR holders registered ordinary shares in relation to share transfers, dividends, change of The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV address and bank accounts should be ADR Depositary is The Bank of New York.
directed to the Company Secretary of Reed Reed Elsevier PLCs CUSIP number is Elsevier NV, at the registered office address 758205207 and its trading symbol is RUK.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Reed Dividends Elsevier NVs CUSIP number is 758204200 Dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary and its trading symbol is ENL.
Each Reed shares are declared and paid in euros.
Elsevier NV ADR represents two Reed Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
will receive dividends from the company by transmission to the bank account which they ADR shareholder services have notified to the company.
Dividends on Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or shares in bearer form are paid through the Reed Elsevier NV ADRs should be addressed intermediary of a bank or broker.
to the ADR Depositary at the address shown on page 196.
Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation Dividends On 24 April 1984 each Reed Elsevier NV Dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC Dfl 20 ordinary share was sub-divided into and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs are made in US five ordinary shares of Dfl 4 each, and on 24 dollars by the ADR Depositary.
April 1987 each Dfl 4 ordinary share was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of Dfl 1 Annual Report on Form 20-F each.
Subsequently, on 4 October 1994 each The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Dfl 1 ordinary share was sub-divided into 10 Reed Elsevier combined businesses, Reed ordinary shares of Dfl 0.10 each.
On 15 April Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is filed 1999 the ordinary shares of Dfl 0.10 were electronically with the United States redenominated as ordinary shares of a0.06.
A copy of Form 20-F is available on the Reed On 7 January 2008 the existing ordinary Elsevier website, or from the ADR Depositary shares of a0.06 each were consolidated into at the address shown on page 196. new ordinary shares of a0.07 each on the
