Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 173 Group accounting policies These consolidated financial statements, which possibility to receive dividends directly from Dutch have been prepared under the historic cost affiliates.
Reed Elsevier PLC is compensated by convention, report the statements of income, cash direct dividend payments by Reed Elsevier flow and financial position of Reed Elsevier NV.
The settlements flowing from these Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in arrangements are also taken directly the financial statements are in millions of euros.
to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
As required by a regulation adopted by the Parent company financial statements European Parliament, the consolidated financial In accordance with 2:402 of the Netherlands Civil statements have been prepared in accordance Code, the parent company financial statements with International Financial Reporting Standards only contain an abridged profit and loss account.
IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Combined financial statements Standards Board IASB.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements on pages 96 to 100. presented in pounds sterling on pages 92 to 131 form an integral part of the notes to Reed Elsevier These include policies in relation to intangible NVs statutory financial statements.
Such assets are amortised over their combined financial statements and selected estimated useful economic lives which, due to notes are presented in euros on pages 133 to 146. their longevity, may be for periods in excess of five years.
As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses with those of Reed Elsevier PLC, Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities described on page 42, the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can net assets of the combined businesses has been be regarded as having the interests of a single shown on the consolidated balance sheet as economic group, enjoying substantially investments in joint ventures, net of the assets equivalent ordinary dividend and capital rights in and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier NV.
the earnings and net assets of the Reed Elsevier Joint ventures are accounted for using the combined businesses.
The Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value.
statements are presented incorporating Other assets and liabilities are stated at historical Reed Elsevier NVs investments in the cost, less provision, if appropriate, for any Reed Elsevier combined businesses accounted impairment in value.
for using the equity method, as adjusted for the effects of the equalisation arrangement between Foreign exchange translation Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC.
The Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at arrangement lays down the distribution of the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the dividends and net assets in such a way that transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary Reed Elsevier NVs share in the profit and net assets and liabilities that are denominated in assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate equals 50%, with all settlements accruing to prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange shareholders from the equalisation arrangements differences arising are recorded in the income taken directly to reserves.
The gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier NVs 50% interest Because the dividend paid to shareholders by in the net assets of the combined businesses Reed Elsevier NV is, other than in special are classified as equity and transferred to the circumstances, equivalent to the Reed Elsevier translation reserve.
PLC dividend plus the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders, Reed When foreign operations are disposed of, the Elsevier NV normally distributes a higher related cumulative translation differences proportion of the combined profit attributable than are recognised within the income statement Reed Elsevier PLC.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in in the period.
this difference in dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier NV and is credited directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal dividend on its R-shares held by a subsidiary of Reed Elsevier PLC that is lower than the dividend on the ordinary shares.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the Reed Elsevier NV 174 Group accounting policies Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of prior year taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax that are recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint ventures is included in the share of results of joint ventures.
The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated using the applicable tax rate that has been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, based on current forecasts, it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Full provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits from foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
Movements in deferred tax are charged and credited in the income statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations when adopted are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
