STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS t for the parent company financial statements, state whether The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject the group and parent company financial statements, in accordance to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent with applicable law and regulations.
company financial statements: and Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis company financial statements for each financial year.
Under unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial parent company will continue in business.
statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial and applicable law UK GAAP.
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in and detect fraud and other irregularities.
relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also references to their achieving a fair presentation.
responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that The parent company financial statements are required by law to give law and those regulations.
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and In preparing each of the group and parent company financial integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the statements, the directors are required to: Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation consistently: in other jurisdictions.
t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: 32
