Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING POLICIES Any change in the parents controlling interest in a subsidiary that BASISOFPREPARATION does not result in a loss of control in buying or selling shares to the These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in minority is treated as a transaction with equity shareholders and compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards is shown as a movement in the consolidated statement of changes IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations in equity.
Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union as at 31 December 2007. b Associates The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under Associates are all entities over which the group has significant the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of inuence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding available for sale investments and certain financial assets and of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in liabilities including derivative instruments.
associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated complementary amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial impairment loss identied on acquisition.
statements Capital disclosures, have been implemented in 2007.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits This standard does not have any impact on the classication and or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share valuation of the groups financial instruments.
of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are IFRIC 14 IAS 19, The limit on a dened benefit asset, minimum adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
funding requirements and their interaction, has been implemented in 2007.
This interpretation provides guidance on assessing the limit Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the group in IAS 19 Employee Benets on the amount of the surplus that can be and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups recognised as an asset.
It also explains how a pension asset or liability interest in the associates.
may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding SEGMENT REPORTING requirement.
The IFRIC had no significant impact on the group.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged CONSOLIDATION in providing products or services that are subject to risks and a Subsidiaries returns that are different from those of other business segments.
Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services over which the group has the power to govern the financial and within a particular economic environment that are different from operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of those of segments operating in other economic environments.
more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect The primary segment for the group is the business segment.
of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or Business segments reported are: Textiles and Washroom Services, convertible are considered when assessing whether the group Pest Control, Facilities Services, Ambius and City Link with central controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from items reported separately as these cannot be reliably allocated the date on which control is transferred to the group.
Geographic or secondary segments are United fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Kingdom, continental Europe, North America, Asia Pacic The group uses the purchase method of accounting to account and Africa.
for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments a Functional and presentation currency issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of Items included in the financial statements of each of the exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
groups entities are measured using the currency of the Identiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent primary economic environment in which the entity operates liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured the functional currency.
The consolidated financial initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of functional and presentation currency.
acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the b Transactions and balances cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the in the income statement.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
reporting period end exchange rates of monetary assets and 71 B B B6$6 LQGG Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its the income statement except when deferred in equity as recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount exceeds the qualifying net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange differences higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell or value-in-use.
for nancing of investments which are considered quasi equity For the purposes of assessing value-in-use, assets are grouped at are reported in reserves.
Other foreign exchange differences are the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash taken to the income statement.
ows cash-generating units and cash ow forecasts are made using c Group companies assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans The results and financial position of all the group entities that have been formally approved by management.
These cash ows that have a functional currency different from the presentation are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted currency are translated into the presentation currency average cost of capital for the group, adjusted for the particular risks as follows: of the cash-generating unit being reviewed for impairment.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are BUSINESS COMBINATIONS translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition ii income and expenses for each income statement are accounting.
The cost of a business combination is the aggregate translated at average exchange rates: and of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer separate component of equity.
and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation date by recognising the acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their other currency instruments designated as hedges of such fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
An intangible operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the asset, such as customer relationships, brands, patents and royalties, income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
is recognised if it meets the denition of an intangible asset in IAS Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 38, Intangible Assets and its fair value can be measured reliably.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity The intangible assets identied in all acquisitions made since and translated at period end exchange rates.
1 January 1998 are goodwill, customer lists and relationships, reacquired franchise rights and contract portfolios.
Consideration in PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT excess of net identiable assets acquired in respect of minority interests Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and ofces.
Provision in existing subsidiary undertakings is taken directly to reserves.
for depreciation of freehold buildings is made in equal annual instalments of 1% to 2% of cost.
Leasehold buildings classied as INTANGIBLE ASSETS finance leases are depreciated in equal annual instalments over the Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life of the leased asset.
and accumulated impairment losses, where applicable.
The main No depreciation is charged on freehold land or xed assets under categories of intangible assets are as follows: construction.
When properties are sold, the difference between sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the income statement.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS INDEFINITE USEFUL LIVES Goodwill All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is the fair value of the groups share of the net identiable assets of the directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate in respect of business combinations made since 1 January 1998 is the difference between their cost and their residual values over their included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on the acquisition of estimated useful lives, as follows: associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill in 4 to 5 years Vehicles respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries made prior to January 1998 3 to 10 years Plant, equipment including equipment for rental, remains eliminated against reserves.
tropical plants and their containers on rental Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less 3 to 10 years Ofce equipment, furniture and ttings accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses previously Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and recognised are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cashamended as necessary.
Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Gains and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of carrying amount of the xed asset may not be recoverable.
goodwill relating to the entity sold.
72 B B B6$6 LQGG Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs INTANGIBLE ASSETS FINITE USEFUL LIVES are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly Intangible assets with nite useful lives are initially measured at associated with the production of identiable and unique either cost or fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over software products controlled by the group, and that will probably their useful economic lives, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one year, are The fair value attributable to intangible assets acquired through a recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software business combination is determined by discounting the expected development employee costs and an appropriate portion of future cash ows to be generated from that asset at the risk adjusted relevant overheads.
weighted average cost of capital for the group.
The residual values of intangible assets are assumed to be nil.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets are as follows: e Research and development Customer lists and relationships: 5 16 years Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
Brands and patents: 2 15 years Costs incurred on development projects relating to the design Reacquired franchise rights: 3 5 years and testing of new or improved products are recognised as Computer software: 3 5 years intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a Development costs: 5 years success considering its commercial and technological feasibility and only if the cost can be measured reliably.
The following are the main categories of intangible assets.
Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense a Customer lists and relationships as incurred.
Customer lists and portfolios acquired as part of a business combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Separate recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development values are not attributed to internally generated customer list costs that have been capitalised are amortised from the date the or relationships.
product is available for use on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
b Brands and patents Brands and patents acquired as part of a business combination INVENTORIES are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straightInventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
line basis over their useful economic lives.
Expenditure incurred Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
to develop, maintain and renew brands and patents internally is The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises design recognised as an expense in the period incurred.
Separate values costs, raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related are not attributed to internally generated brands and patents.
production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated c Reacquired franchise rights selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable Reacquired franchise rights acquired as part of a business variable selling expenses.
combination in the Parcel Delivery division represent the benefit to the group from the right to operate in certain geographical TRADE RECEIVABLES regions.
These are initially measured at fair value and amortised Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and on a straight-line basis over the remaining contractual period of subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective the franchise agreements which terminate on 25 October 2010. interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for d Computer software impairment of trade receivables is established when there is Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all of the costs incurred to acquire and bring in to use the specic amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
software and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
73 B B B6$6 LQGG Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not with original maturities of three months or less and subject to reverse in the foreseeable future.
In the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts.
Bank Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is the balance sheet.
SHARE CAPITAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly a Defined benefit pension obligations attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The principal scheme is the UK scheme, which has a Where any group company purchases the companys equity share number of dened benefit sections, which are now closed to new capital Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any entrants other than the Initial No2 section, accounting for 0.5% directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, of the total schemes liabilities, which remains open and a is deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity dened contribution section.
The dened benefit scheme is holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
funded through payments to a trustee-administered fund, Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
A number of consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental much smaller dened benefit and dened contribution schemes transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in operate elsewhere which are also funded through payments to equity attributable to the companys equity holders.
trustee-administered funds or insurance companies.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension BORROWINGS benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised and compensation.
A dened contribution plan is a pension cost where hedge accounting is not applied : any difference plan under which the group pays xed contributions into a between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption separate entity.
value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened benefit pension plans is the present value of the dened Where fair value hedge accounting is applied, the carrying value benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of is adjusted for any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or plan assets.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the group has by discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest a continuing right to defer settlement of the liability for at least rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in 12 months after the balance sheet date under both its committed the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have bank credit facility and Euro Medium Term Note programme.
terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related DEFERRED INCOME TAX pension liability.
The group will recognise a pension surplus Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, as an asset where there is an unconditional right to a refund on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets or where the group has sufficient scope to reduce future and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated pension contributions.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, than a business combination that at the time of the transaction and curtailments are recognised as charges or credits against affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not operating profit in the income statement.
Interest costs on plan accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates liabilities and the expected return on plan assets are recognised and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the in finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax are charged or credited to the consolidated statement of liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
74 B B B6$6 LQGG Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies b Defined contribution pension plans f Profit-sharing and bonus plans The group pays contributions to publicly or privately The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has no further the probability of certain performance criteria being achieved.
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
A provision is recognised where a contractual obligation exists The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense or where past practice indicates that there is a constructive when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as obligation to make such payments in the future.
an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the g Holiday pay future payments is available.
Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such c Other post-employment obligations are charged to the income statement as the benets are earned.
Some group companies provide post-employment healthcare An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reect the fair benets to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benets is value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
PROVISIONS The expected costs of these benets are accrued over the period Vacant property, environmental, self-insurance and other of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or used for dened benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is probable arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: assumptions, are charged or credited to the consolidated and if this amount is capable of being reliably estimated.
If such an statement of recognised income and expense.
obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated it is classied as a contingent liability.
d Share-based compensation The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based Vacant property provision is made in respect of vacant and compensation plans.
The economic cost of awarding shares and partly sub-let leasehold properties to the extent that future share options to employees is recognised as an expense in the rental payments are expected to exceed future rental income.
income statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit Environmental provision is made for all known liabilities to awarded.
The fair value is determined by reference to option remediate contaminated land on the basis of managements best pricing models, principally Monte Carlo and adjusted Blackestimate of the costs of these liabilities.
The charge is recognised in the income is made for all claims incurred as at the balance sheet whether statement over the vesting period of the award.
At each balance notied or not date based on actuarial assessments of the likely sheet date, the group revises its estimate of the number of amounts of these liabilities.
Other provisions are made for all other options that are expected to become exercisable.
Any revision to known liabilities that exist at the year end based on managements the original estimates is reected in the income statement with a best estimate as to the cost of settling these liabilities.
Provisions corresponding adjustment to equity immediately to the extent it are not recognised for future operating losses.
relates to past service and the remainder over the rest of the Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood vesting period.
that an outow will be required in settlement is determined by The proceeds received net of any directly attributable considering the class of obligations as a whole.
transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision and share premium when the options are exercised.
amounts are calculated on the present value of the expenditures e Termination benefits expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value Termination benets are payable when an employment is is calculated using forward market interest rates, as measured at terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these risks already reected in future cash ow estimates.
The group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benets as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benets falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
75 B B B6$6 LQGG Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, REVENUE RECOGNITION are included in other payables.
The interest element of the finance Revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of services, net cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as of value-added tax and other similar sales-based taxes, rebates and to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and recognised as follows: equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the a Service revenue shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Revenue excludes VAT and other similar sales based taxes, Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of rebates and discounts and represents the amounts receivable ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating for services rendered and goods sold outside the group.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives For non-contract based business, revenue represents the value received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on of goods delivered or services performed.
For contract based a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
business, revenue represents the sales value of work carried out for customers during the period.
Contract income is recognised DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION in accounting periods on a straight-line basis over the life of the Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised contract.
For long-term contracts involving the installation as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in of equipment, revenue is recognised using the percentage which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
completion method and represents the sales value of work Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the b Rental income group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant Rental assets such as tropical plants, washroom equipment, instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to garments, linen, security equipment etc which are owned by such provisions.
group entities or where at least substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment are retained by group FINANCIAL ASSETS entities are capitalised as xed assets and depreciated over their The group classies its investments in the following categories: estimated useful lives.
financial assets at fair value through the profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale All rental income received or receivable in respect of rental assets financial assets.
The classication depends on the purpose for is accounted for on an operating lease basis.
Income from the which the investments were acquired.
Management determines rental of these assets is credited to revenue on a strict timethe classication of its investments at initial recognition and apportioned basis.
re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
The group c Franchise income assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective Franchise income is recognised as services are provided or evidence that financial assets are impaired.
continuing rights granted by the agreement are used.
All financial assets are held at amortised cost except for derivatives, d Interest income which are classied as held for trading and certain assets classied Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using as available-for-sale, which are held at fair value.
When a receivable is impaired, a Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss the group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are amount, being the estimated future cash ow discounted at the designated as hedges.
Assets are classied as current if they are original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues either held for trading or are expected to be realised within unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on 12 months of the balance sheet date.
impaired loans is recognised either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as conditions warrant.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with LEASES xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has market.
They arise when the group provides money, goods or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is These are classied as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
76 B B B6$6 LQGG Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies The group documents at the inception of the transaction the c Held-to-maturity investments relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking with xed or determinable payments and xed maturities that various hedge transactions.
The group also documents its the groups management has the positive intention and ability assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of to hold to maturity.
whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are d Available-for-sale financial assets highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the a Fair value hedge other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated management intends to dispose of the investment within and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income 12 months of the balance sheet date.
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Available-for-sale investments are fair valued and changes to market values are recognised in equity.
On subsequent disposal b Net investment hedge or impairment, the accumulated gains and losses, previously Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the recognised in equity, are recognised in the income statement effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or as gains and losses from investment securities.
Loans and loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately receivables and held-to-maturity investments are measured in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject are included in the income statement when the foreign operation to impairment.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classied as accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator recognised immediately in the income statement.
that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and either been disposed of, or that is classied as held for sale, which the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial represents a separate major line of business or geographical area asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Impairment FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION testing of trade receivables is described on page 97.
The fair value of any financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The FINANCIAL LIABILITIES quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group All financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for effective interest rate method except for derivatives, which are financial liabilities is the current ask price.
classied as held for trading except where they qualify for hedge accounting and are held at fair value.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate and Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently future cash ows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange re-measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation nature of the item being hedged.
The group designates certain techniques.
The group uses a variety of methods and makes derivatives as either 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each or liabilities or 2 hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The group does not operate any cash ow hedging activities.
77 B B B6$6 LQGG Rentokil Initial plc Accounting Policies The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade upon managements best estimate determines the level of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair provision required at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes actual cash spend may be different from the original forecast is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the utilisation spend.
current market interest rate that is available to the group for similar e Retirement benefits financial instruments.
Dened benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent actuaries based upon actuarial assumptions.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS significant judgement is required in determining these actuarial Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based assumptions.
Refer to note 24 for the principal assumptions used on historical experience and other factors, including expectations for the Rentokil Initial Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom.
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
f Self insurance The group operates captive insurance companies in the UK and The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
These companies provide reinsurance exclusively to certain The resulting accounting estimates will, by denition, seldom equal companies within the group.
Provision is made based on the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have actuarial assessment of the liabilities arising from the insurance a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying coverage provided.
The actuarial assessment of the reserve for amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are future claims necessarily includes estimates as to the likely trend discussed below.
of future claims costs and as to the emergence of further claims a Estimated impairment of goodwill subsequent to the year end.
An actuarial review of claims is The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any performed annually.
To the extent that actual claims differ from impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated those projected, the provisions could vary signicantly.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS TO have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
PUBLISHED STANDARDS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions The following accounting standards and amendments to existing consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by been formally approved by management.
Refer to note 11 for the the group.
key assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations.
This new standard requires b Valuation of acquired intangible assets identication and reporting of operating segments on the Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, brands and basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the reacquired franchise rights being recognised.
These are valued board in order to allocate resources to the segment and using the excess earnings and relief from royalty methods.
The group is currently in the process applying these methodologies certain key judgements and of assessing the impact of IFRS 8 and intends to adopt it no estimates are required to be made in respect of future cashows.
later than accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2009. c Income taxes ii IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs.
This revision of an The group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
existing standard requires the capitalisation of borrowing significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide costs directly attributable to an acquisition, construction or provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The revised standard is not expected to have recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on any impact on the group.
The group intends to adopt IAS 23 no estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the later than accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2009. final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the iii IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations.
This revision income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which of an existing standard continues to apply the acquisition such determination is made.
method to business combinations with certain changes which could impact the group.
For example, all payments d Provision for vacant property and environmental to purchase a business must be recorded at fair value at restoration the acquisition date with some contingent payments significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide subsequently remeasured at fair value through the provision for vacant property and environmental restoration.
In addition, all transaction Vacant property and environmental restoration tend to be costs must be expensed.
The group intends to adopt IFRS 3 long-term in nature and the required use of an appropriate Revised no later than accounting periods beginning on market discount rate and forecast future utilisation based 1 January 2009.
