Rentokil Initial plc Board Review BOARD REVIEW This report discusses the progress we have continued to make with most of the business on the demanding journey back to sustainable growth.
It also examines the extremely disappointing fourth quarter performance from City Link, our parcels delivery business, which has overshadowed the otherwise solid performance of the group as a whole.
Over the following pages we look at how far we have come in our journey, assess the improvements made, the areas that remain difficult and our priorities for 2008.
OUR STRATEGY Our goal is to create a group whose businesses are capable of sustainable profitable growth and thereby deliver value for our shareholders.
This requires strong brands and our ambition is to be the brand of choice in every market that we serve and to be the trusted provider of services for our commercial and residential customers.
We aim to be recognised as a leading international business, with a deserved reputation for outstanding customer service.
Our group strategic objectives are to restart revenue growth, reshape the portfolio and to improve efficiency and productivity.
BUILDING ON THE MOMENTUM 2005 was focused on developing a detailed plan to redirect and re-energise Rentokil Initial and restore it to growth.
During the last two years our objectives have focused on restarting revenue growth, reshaping the portfolio and improving efficiency and productivity.
In 2007 we have continued to implement this plan, based on a number of key themes which are unchanged from 2006: Fixing deep seated operational problems in businesses such as UK Washroom and UK Pest Control: Improving the profitability of all of our businesses by driving revenue and seeking productivity and process improvements: Making acquisitions and disposals to reshape our portfolio of businesses: making acquisitions to build on strong market positions and selling businesses with either weaker positions or limited prospects for growth which are clearly worth more to others: Developing a more customer-focused outward-looking and dynamic culture putting our customers and service excellence at the heart of everything we do: and Developing and retaining a talented and committed management team.
In general in all of our divisions apart from City Link we are in line with where we set out to be at this stage.
At City Link we are now faced with a significant shortfall in performance for 2008 and possibly beyond.
This is discussed later in this review.
