Rentokil Initial plc Board Review OUR CHALLENGES The principal risks and uncertainties relating to our strategy are summarised below.
While some of these risks remain just that, others are now manifesting themselves, as noted overleaf: Our single most important risk is that we will not deliver improvements to the group in line with shareholders expectations.
We warned the market in December 2007 that performance in City Link would fall short of our expectations and warned again that City Link may not trade better than breakeven in 2008 when we announced our preliminary results in February 2008.
The first statement resulted in a 22% fall in the share price and the second, a further fall of 23%.
This has been highly damaging to short-term value creation.
Disruption in the businesses undergoing extensive organisational change.
This risk is occurring at City Link but elsewhere in the group continues to be managed effectively.
Ensuring acquisitions are integrated properly and meet their investment case.
City Links poor performance is attributable to poor acquisition integration.
Resolving the challenges in the Textiles and Washroom Services division in some of its continental European markets.
Retaining the management team across the group as a whole.
The decline in City Links performance was substantial and unexpected, for reasons that are explained elsewhere in this review and in the Review of Performance.
It has had a significant impact on our achievements in 2007 and on our outlook and prospects for 2008.
However, before talking about City Link specifically, we would like to review the progress we have made PEST CONTROL ORGANIC GROWTH in 2007 to fix our operational problems, reshape the business portfolio and improve profitability.
WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2007 FIXING OPERATIONAL PROBLEMS In Pest Control our operational focus in 2007 has been on improving sales, customer service thereby benefiting contract retention and productivity.
We have had notable success, improving the organic growth rate from 1.1% in 2006 to 5.7% in 2007.
Steps to improve low- 5.7% 2007 season productivity in North America are underway and there is more to achieve in the 1.1% 2006 UK following the reorganisation at the start of 2007.
In Textiles and Washroom Services an important operational focus has been on the UK ASIA PACIFIC ORGANIC GROWTH business.
In the UK, we separated the washroom, linen and garment operations and closed the linen and garments activities in 2006.
During 2007 we consolidated our washroom facilities into 20 branches and improved the efficiency of our processing.
As a result, we have now created an infrastructure which should enable us to be a low cost operator in the marketplace.
Away from the UK the focus of operational improvements has been in sales effectiveness in a tough, price competitive market.
We have also worked to improve operational efficiency because we are typically unable to pass through cost increases to our customers.
We are 12.0% 2007 therefore reliant on annual productivity improvements to protect the bottom line.
indd 6 27 3 08 02:52:36 LEADING THE WAY Following the acquisition of Ambigest in July 2007, Rentokil became the clear leader in the Spanish pest control market.
The combination of a warm climate and a significant tourist industry makes pest control of vital importance in the country.
Every new hotel or apartment complex is a potential new customer as tourists continue to demand higher hygiene standards.
During the year Rentokil in America acquired Presto-X, a significant regional pest control company, which operates from 21 branches within the central states covering major cities including Denver, Dallas and Chicago.
Both acquisitions expand our geographic footprint, build density in core regions and improve returns in the growing pest control market.
indd 8 27 3 08 02:53:07 OLYMPIC DREAM In 2007 the company entered the fast growing Chinese pest control market through the acquisition of Rentokil Taiming.
The business, while still small, is already profitable.
It owns proprietary and highly effective fogging technology and, following technical evaluation, the company is seeking product registration around the world.
It will provide the company with a unique selling proposition.
Rentokil Taiming has been recommended as one of the preferred suppliers for both pest control services and product to the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
indd 9 27 3 08 02:53:13 Rentokil Initial plc Board Review In Facilities Services our largest business is Cleaning in the UK, which operates in a highly pricecompetitive market.
We have made improvements to the way in which we manage our smaller customer accounts and have an effective approach to daytime cleaning.
These initiatives are improving productivity and will help offset margin pressure.
In Catering and Hospital Services we have been shedding unprofitable contracts and improving procurement to drive down food costs.
In Asia Pacific our operational focus has been on improving sales effectiveness to drive organic growth 12.0% in 2007 compared with 5.7% in 2006, whilst improving customer service to boost retention.
With the exception of City Link we have made good progress in improving our operations this year but there remains more to do.
Continued focus on sales and service excellence will enable us to improve the groups organic growth rate and defend or improve margins in our more price-competitive businesses.
IMPROVING PROFITABILITY We entered 2007 expecting to make good progress in Pest Control, Parcel Delivery and Asia Pacific while knowing that market conditions in continental Europe would continue to impact Textiles and Washroom Services.
Our expectation was that profit for the year would be in line with 2006, but that there would be some regression in the first quarter of 2007, due to a number of factors including the declining trends in Textiles and Washroom Services, still apparent as we exited 2006.
Our first quarter results were in line with our expectations adjusted operating profit from ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 2007 continuing operations was down 4.3% at 53.9 million and adjusted profit before income tax was down 23.2% at 35.5 million.
As anticipated, profit was affected by the restructuring 5.7% underway in UK Pest Control and UK Washroom, seasonally weak trading in North America IMPROVEMENT ON 2006 Pest Control and trading in our European Textiles and Washroom business.
The second and third quarters developed in line with our plans, with the regression in adjusted profit before income tax reduced to 4.3% in the second quarter and up 21.1% in the third quarter, a continuation of positive quarterly trends.
The third quarter results were flattered by interest received on the sale proceeds from Electronic Security, but even without these would have been some 5.7% ahead of the prior year.
At this stage it seemed the group had reached an inflection point and we expected that in 2008 profit before tax and amortisation would show mid to high single-digit growth over 2007, again after excluding the interest benefit from the sale of Electronic Security estimated at the time to be around 15 million in the second half of 2007 and 30 million for the whole of 2008.
indd 10 27 3 08 02:53:34 FLYING HIGH Initial Facilities Services is the UKs largest commercial cleaning company and the acquisition of Lancaster Cleaning Company in 2007 strengthened its presence in the London metropolitan area, accessing its blue chip customer base.
Lancasters pride of the City is the landmark building the Gherkin, also known as Swiss Re or simply 30 St Mary Axe and was awarded the prestigious RIBA award for Building of the Year in 2004.
Lancaster has been providing cleaning services to this iconic building since 2003 for 260 days a year so theres no time to admire the panoramic view from the famous 40th floor restaurant!
indd 11 28 3 08 07:10:55 Rentokil Initial plc Board Review In each of the first three quarterly trading statements in 2007, we commented that businessto-consumer trading in City Link was a little softer than expected, although this was offset by stronger business-to-business trading but that overall the division was performing in line with budget.
As we entered quarter four, City Links performance began to fall short of budget and in December we issued a trading statement saying that poor business-toconsumer trading in the run up to Christmas meant that City Links profit would be up to 10 million short of expectations and that this would have a similar impact on overall group profitability.
This announcement had a severe and adverse impact on the share price which fell 22% on the day of the announcement, reducing the groups market capitalisation by some 588 million.
An investigation into the causes of the profit shortfall revealed that: The trading downturn was not just driven by a shortfall in market related business-toconsumer volumes: The foundation for the integration of City Link, its franchises and Target Express acquired at the end of 2006 had not been solid enough to cope with the degree and scale of changes that were being implemented.
This had resulted in an adverse impact on account management, service and new business generation and, as a consequence: City Links profitability in 2008 was and remains unclear with the risk that the business may not trade better than breakeven in 2008.
Actions have been taken to improve the situation, including the appointment of a new CITYLINKACTIONPLAN NEW MANAGEMENT TEAM management team, a pause in and review of the depot integration programme, a programme REVIEW OF THE DEPOT INTEGRATION to improve customer service and strengthen account management where required and PROGRAMME a restructuring of the sales team, already generating a strong new business pipeline.
IMPROVE CUSTOMER SERVICE STRENGTHEN ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT Further details of the problems at City Link and the actions that have been taken to address RESTRUCTURING OF THE SALES TEAM them are set out in the Review of Performance contained within the Business Review.
City Links performance is clearly unacceptable and we are working urgently to address the issues.
With hindsight, it is now clear that the problem which we had originally diagnosed as a shortfall in business-to-consumer trading was, in fact, a shortfall in the legacy City Link operations.
We had misinterpreted the shortfall as a market issue rather than an internal issue linked to the way in which the acquired franchisees were being integrated into the City Link business.
Although the rest of the group traded in line with our expectations for the fourth quarter and continued the positive trends seen during the earlier part of the year, guidance that City Link might not trade better than breakeven in 2008 has had a further adverse impact 12 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 12 27 3 08 02:53:48 Rentokil Initial plc Board Review on the share price when announced in February 2008.
The share price fell by a further 23% on the day of the results, reducing the groups market capitalisation by 445 million.
In total, the fall in market capitalisation since the first warning in December and since the announcement of our full year results is 1.2 billion which exceeds the value of the City Link business as a whole.
City Links performance has clearly damaged the markets confidence in the group and increased its view of the risk inherent in the balance of the portfolio.
The board considered, as a matter of urgency, the steps that could be taken to create value for shareholders and this has led to the appointment of a new Chairman, Chief Executive and Corporate Development Director announced on 20 March 2008, as reported in the letter from the board.
In the meantime, the guidance that we have given for 2008 is that adjusted profit before income tax is expected to be significantly lower than 2007 and will be heavily dependent on the performance of City Link.
That said, we expect our divisions apart from City Link to produce modest growth in 2008.
RESHAPING THE BUSINESS PORTFOLIO Acquisition and disposal activity continued in 2007.
As in prior years we have sold businesses where we had weaker strategic positions or where businesses had maximised their value-creating activities for the group.
We have also sought to buy businesses to strengthen market positions and to access growth.
Our principal disposal was the sale of the Initial Electronic Security division which RAISED SALE OF INITIAL ELECTRONIC SECURITY raised 596.8 million.
We sold this business because our markets offered limited organic growth prospects and we lacked the scale to compete effectively on an international basis.
596.8m The division was sold to United Technologies Inc of the United States which viewed the acquisition as a strategic purchase for its Chubb business.
SPENDING ON ACQUISITIONS 2007 During 2007 we spent 201 million on acquisitions.
The largest expenditure was in Asia Pacific 74.5 million.
The principal acquisitions were in the Pest Control market in Australia where we have now built a leading market position.
Strategically, we are seeking to expand our operations in Asia as there is the potential for higher organic growth rates than are available in the Western economies.
42.3 million was spent in Pest Control in North America and in continental Europe.
These markets are fragmented and offer attractive growth rates.
Part of the expenditure was in Spain where we have now built 74.5m ASIA PACIFIC a number one market position.
In City Link we spent 17.4 million acquiring most of the 42.3m PEST CONTROL 17.4m CITY LINK remaining franchisees, substantially completing the programme which commenced in 39.0m FACILITIES SERVICES 2005.
In Facilities Services we spent 38.9 million largely on the acquisition of a London- 22.0m TEXTILES AND WASHROOM based cleaning business to strengthen our position in the key UK office cleaning market.
Finally, we spent 21.9 million in Textiles and Washroom Services to improve our market positions in the Nordics.
indd 13 1 4 08 12:12:02 Rentokil Initial plc Board Review SPENDING TO IMPROVE In 2008 we expect to sharply reduce the scale of our acquisition activity and focus on STRATEGIC POSITIONS deriving benefit from purchases that we have already made.
Since 2005 we have sold three divisions residential conferences in the UK Style, Manned Guarding and 671.0m Electronic Security together with some smaller activities, realising total net proceeds of 1,064.8 million.
We have spent 671.0 million to improve strategic positions, the bulk of which has been spent on the City Link business acquiring the franchisees and Target Express, and in Pest Control where we have significantly increased our scale in the fragmented North American market and deepened our positions in continental Europe.
We have also expanded the scale of our operations in Asia which now represent 5.7% of reported group revenues 5.8% in 2004.
Disposal proceeds have exceeded the cost of acquisitions by 393.8 million and the balance has been used to reduce debt.
HOW WE MEASURE ACHIEVEMENT The board uses a number of key performance indicators KPIs to judge progress towards strategic objectives.
The board believes that in a complex company such as Rentokil Initial output measures, such as portfolio development, revenue and profit growth are the most relevant way of demonstrating to internal management and to shareholders progress on important issues such as customer satisfaction, service levels, staff satisfaction and innovation.
The commentary on performance against KPIs at group and divisional level can be found in the Review of Performance contained within the Business Review.
CITY LINK For businesses with recurring revenue i. e. virtually all of our companies apart from CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS City Link KPIs relating to the development of our contract portfolio are important, some because they are an inherent measure of the level of service we are providing to our 25,000 customers and others because they are indicators of market strength.
The contract portfolio represents the annualised value of our customer contracts and is a leading indicator of performance.
We refer to the increase in the contract portfolio as net gain which is made up of a number of component KPIs.
New business wins shows us how successful our sales activities are.
Customer retention indicates how satisfied our customers are with the service we provide.
Changes in the as used portion of contracts show variation in the amount of business existing customers give us under their contracts and the impact of price movements: as such they can often be an early indicator of market trends.
For example, in some of the European Textiles businesses, a general decline in the as used portion of garment contracts i. e. the actual number of garments we process for customers is a reflection of the shift in manufacturing jobs to lower cost countries.
For non-portfolio businesses such as City Link, the equivalent KPIs are numbers of consignments handled and revenue per consignment.
Our problems with City Links trading in the fourth quarter have caused us to re-evaluate our KPIs for this business.
New KPIs will be introduced to monitor our new business pipeline more effectively, and to help us better understand trading patterns in our 25,000 customer accounts.
indd 14 27 3 08 02:54:33 CITY LINK PROJECT PAN City Link moves half a million packages per day but the challenge of its couriers lives is delivering to homes.
Finding effective ways to avert problems over failed or delayed deliveries has been City Links mission over the last several years.
A new improvement is the companys pre-advice notification system, or Project Pan Initiative, which keeps customers informed as to the status of their delivery via their own choice of medium such as text messages or emails.
The system sends out notifications to customers stating that an order has been collected and dispatched and asks them to confirm that they will be able to take delivery of the consignment the next day.
If unable to, customers can reply requesting automatic rescheduling to the recipients choice of dates or even shift the delivery location.
indd 15 28 3 08 07:26:59 Rentokil Initial plc Board Review Other business and divisional KPIs include growth in total and organic revenue and net margin, as a way to judge the success of performance and productivity and improvement initiatives: improving efficiency in a sustained way is fundamental to first stabilising and then expanding margin.
Our business and divisional profit KPI is operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
In 2007 we reported operating profit both before and after one-off items, referring to the latter as adjusted operating profit.
We believe that to look at underlying trends we need to strip out these items, as they principally relate to one time restructuring rationalisation projects.
Our activities have the capacity to generate significant cash flow, although growth in revenues is likely to be to the detriment of working capital performance and spend on capital equipment for rental to customers.
We therefore monitor divisional operating cash flow and days sales outstanding which measures the amount of working capital tied up in trade receivables.
For the overall group, we look at all these KPIs plus some which are only relevant to the group as a whole free cash flow which measures our ability to invest in our businesses and to pay dividends and profit before income tax and amortisation of intangible assets PBTA.
As with operating profit, in 2007 we have used adjusted profit before income tax adjusted PBTA, which also excludes one-off items.
WHAT WE EXPECT TO ACHIEVE IN 2008 In 2008, we have three priorities: To return City Link to profit and then profit growth.
To build on the momentum that we have now established across the rest of our businesses and drive operational excellence.
To create value for shareholders by improving performance.
In Pest Control we expect to return the UK business to profit growth following the restructuring activity in 2007 and the improvements in sales and revenue growth seen at the end of the year.
In continental Europe, we expect to continue our drive for strong organic growth and will continue to make some bolt-on acquisitions to improve market positions.
In North America, we will continue our work to improve out-of-season productivity and hence overall margin.
In Textiles and Washroom Services physical restructuring of the UK business is now complete and our focus is on rebuilding revenue, portfolio and growing profit.
Margins are some way below their potential and we expect to grow them during 2008 and 2009.
In continental Europe, the market continues to be very price competitive and we will be looking at our supply chain and logistics with a view to improving efficiency and reducing costs.
indd 16 27 3 08 02:54:45 Rentokil Initial plc Board Review In Facilities Services margins remain low and the pricing environment is highly competitive.
We will continue to deploy our RAPID approach to the management of small to medium size cleaning contracts and daytime Smart Clean initiative to protect margins.
In Asia Pacific we will continue to make acquisitions in pest control to improve our market positions.
We will, however, slow the pace of some acquisitions to avoid overstretching management so that we can derive the full benefits from companies that we have already bought.
In City Link we have paused and will review the depot integration programme.
Our immediate focus is on rebuilding the sales pipeline and further strengthening customer service as key measures to restore the financial health of the business.
Thereafter, we will resume cautiously depot integrations, the bulk of which will now occur in 2009.
Overall, the board expects 2008 to deliver a modest increase in profits for our businesses other than City Link.
As already explained, City Link itself may not trade better than breakeven but we do not at present have good visibility for this business and it may be a number of months before we have a better view of 2008s trading and City Links potential for 2009.
Consequently, the groups profit in 2008 may be significantly lower than that in 2007, but the final result will be heavily dependent on City Link.
Our dividend policy is unchanged: we will continue to take a cautious approach to dividend growth until the recovery of the business is well established.
The board is recommending an unchanged dividend for 2007.
The board is well aware of the importance of the dividend to many shareholders and hopes to be in a position to maintain it for 2008.
However, our ability to do so will be dependent on, in particular, our view of 2009 and the speed with which City Links trading can be improved.
SUMMARY The boards goal is to create a group capable of sustained profit growth.
In 2007 we have had success in improving the performance of all of our divisions apart from City Link.
However, City Links performance in the final quarter of 2007 was unacceptable, as is its outlook for 2008.
The impact of City Link on the groups share price has been significant and our clear priority for 2008 is to improve the performance of that business.
However, we must also ensure that we maintain and enhance further the progress that has been made in the rest of the group.
Under the leadership of the new senior team we will concentrate in 2008 on operational excellence and the improvement of performance.
To conclude, we asked a lot from our people in 2007 and they are proud of what we have achieved.
They are as disappointed as the board about the performance of City Link and, as a group, we are determined to improve our performance in 2008.
