Rentokil Initial plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to take responsibility for The maintenance and integrity of the Rentokil Initial plc website is preparing the annual report in accordance with applicable law and the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors regulations.
This report includes the directors remuneration report, does not involve consideration of this matter of and, accordingly, and the financial statements for each financial year which are the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may required to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially company and of the group and of the profit and loss and cash flows presented on the website.
of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the directors are required to adopt suitable accounting policies and financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to apply them consistently, making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent and following applicable accounting The directors report and certain other sections of this annual report standards.
These standards are: a UK Generally Accepted Accounting and accounts include statements that constitute forward-looking Principles UK GAAP for the company: and b International statements.
Forward-looking statements include information Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the EU concerning possible, estimated or assumed future results of our and implemented in the UK for the consolidated financial statements operations, earnings, liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures, of the group.
industry or market conditions, acquisition activities and the effect of completed acquisitions, gearing, debt levels and the ability to obtain The directors confirm that they have complied with the above additional financing or make payments on our debt, legal, regulatory requirements in preparing the financial statements.
or fiscal developments, demand for and pricing of our products and The directors are responsible for ensuring that the company keeps other aspects of our business or general economic conditions.
proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.
at any time the financial position of the company and the group By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the uncertainties and assumptions because they relate to events and remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and as depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company believe to be reasonable, there can be, and we give, no assurance, and the group and taking reasonable steps for the prevention and whether express or implied, that actual results will not differ detection of fraud and other irregularities.
materially or significantly from our expectations or estimations.
