Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company  and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 December 2007 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groupsinterest in its associate.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with  Reporting Standards IFRSs and its  by the  Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
b Basis of preparation The accounting year runs to the nearest Sunday to 31 December each year which will bea52or53week period.
The financial statements arepresented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They arepreparedonthe historicalcost basis except derivative financial instruments which areheld at their fair value.
Non-currentassets and disposal groups held for sale arestated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires managementtomake judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions arebased on historicalexperience and various other factors that arebelieved to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assetsand liabilities that arenot readilyapparent from othersources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions arereviewed on an ongoingbasis.
 estimates arerecognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and futureperiods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In the current year the Group has adopted IFRS7Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after1January 2007 and the related  of Financial Statements.
The impact of the adoptionofthese standards has been to expand the disclosuresprovided in the financial statementsregarding the Groups financial instruments and management of capital.
Futureaccounting policies IFRS8Operating Segments will be mandatoryfor the Group for the 2009 year end results.
This will require the Group to amend certain disclosures but will not change the Groupsresult.
The Group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issues by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have any significant impact on the financialstatements.
c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries areentities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, togovern the financial and operatingpolicies of an entity so as to obtain benefitsfromits activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently areexercisable or convertible aretaken into account, regardless of managementsintention to exercise that option or warrant.
The financialstatements of subsidiaries areincluded in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates arethose entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, overthe financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groupsshareofthe total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significantinfluence ceases.
When the Groups shareoflosses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groupscarrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition of further lossesisdiscontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
iii Transactions  Intragroup balancesand any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions areeliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates areeliminated to the extent of the Groupsinterest in the entity.
Unrealised losses areeliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
32 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 d Foreign currency Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies aretranslated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies aretranslatedinto sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The profitand loss accounts for overseas operations aretranslated at the average rate of exchange for the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities aretaken directly to reserves.
Allother translation differences aretaken to the income statement.
e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposuretointerest rate risks , financingand investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instrumentsfor trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting areaccountedfor as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instrumentsare recognised initiallyatcost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivativefinancial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of anyresultantgain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or paytoterminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
f Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment arestated at cost less  see below and impairment losses see accountingpolicyk.
Whereparts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they areaccountedfor as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership areclassified as finance leases.
The owner-occupied property excluding land element acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease  lease, less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy k. Lease paymentsare accountedfor as  policy r. Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probablethat the futureeconomic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs arerecognisedinthe income statement as an expenseasincurred.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement onastraight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives areasfollows: Freehold land Indefinite Freehold buildings50years Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or 25 years, whichever is lower Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years Motor vehicles 4years Computer equipment 3-5 years g Intangible assetsGoodwill All business combinations areaccounted for by applyingthe purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In respectofbusiness acquisitions that have occurred since1January 2004, goodwill representsthe difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to1January 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balancesheet at1January 2004.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested at least bi-annually for impairment see accounting policy k. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate.
Negativegoodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
33 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued h Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables arestated at their cost less impairment losses see accounting policy k. i Stock Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that arerepayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groupscash management  of cash and cash equivalents for the purposeofthe statement of cash flows.
k Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets arereviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether thereisany indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assetsrecoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognisedwhenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cashgenerating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairmentlosses arerecognised in the income statement.
l Share-based payment transactions The shareoption programme allows Group employees to acquireshares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is  expense withacorresponding increase in equity.
The fairvalue is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured usingaStochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options weregranted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shareoptions that vest except  due to market based conditionsnot achieving the threshold for vesting.
m Provisions Aprovision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group hasapresent legal or constructive obligation asaresult ofapast event, and it is probable that an  will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discountingthe expected futurecash flows atapre-tax rate that reflects current market assessmentsofthe time value of money and, whereappropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
n Deferred and current tax Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognisedinrespect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary differencesare differences between the carrying amount of the Groupsassets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that areexpected to apply in the periodsinwhich the timing differences areexpected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that areenacted, or substantively enacted, bythe balance sheet date.
o Pensions The Groupmakes contributions for selected employees into defined contribution pension plans and these contributions arecharged to the income statement as they become payable.
The Group does not operateany defined benefit plans.
p Onerous contracts Aprovision for onerous contracts is recognisedwhen the expected benefitstobederived by the Group fromacontract arelower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
q Revenue Revenue represents amounts received and receivable forservices and goods provided excluding value added tax and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
34 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 r Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases arerecognised in the income statement onastraight line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease arealso spreadonastraight line basis over the lease term.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments areapportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The financecharge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to  rate of interestonthe remaining balanceof the liability.
iii Pre-opening expenses Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the date of opening ofanew restaurant arewritten offtothe income statement in the period in which theyare incurred.
Promotional and trainingcosts arewrittenoff to the income statement in the period in which they areincurred.
vi Borrowing costs Debt is stated net of borrowingcosts whichare spread over the term of the loan.
s Dividend policy In accordancewith IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date arenot recognisedas aliability at that balance sheet date, and arerecognised in the financialstatements whenthey have received approval by shareholders.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty In the process of applying the Groupsaccounting policiesasdescribed above, management has made the following judgements and estimations that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: a Impairment of carrying value of associate Following the disposal by LivingVentures Limited of the Living Rooms business and the subsequent capital restructure, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to makeafurther provision of 1.7m, which together with the 9.5m provision made in the year ended 31 December 2006, leavesanil carryingvalue of both the investment and the loan note due.
Further details areprovided in notes5and 14. b Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least onabi-annualbasis.
This requires an estimate of the value-in-use of the assets to which goodwill is ascribedto.
Estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to makeanestimate of the futurecash flows from those assets and to chooseasuitable discountrate in order to calculatethe present value of those cashflows.
c Acquisition of Brunning and Price Limited Following the acquisition of Brunningand Price Limited on 17 October2007, the Group has consolidated the fair value of its assets and liabilities at that date.
This required an estimate of the fair value of the properties acquired which the Directors have determined based on advice from an independent firm of qualified valuers.
35 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007
