12 Business review continued Risk Impact Action We currently have both revenue We must ensure that we can Monitor progress closely at Board and Group Leadership Team growth and simplification resource and complete both level.
revenue growth and simplification Prioritise resources for strategic programmes.
initiatives so that we can achieve our financial targets.
Monitor the changing nature of our business by using fewer, larger processing venues.
See Corporate governance on pages 25-30: People on pages 6-8.
Against the backdrop of the Despite the potential distractions Monitor operating activities and objectives closely.
Thomson Reuters transaction, we of the integration planning Monitor employee engagement and focus on employee need to stay focused on business process, we need to maintain our communication and people management.
as usual and keep driving for focus on customer service, optimium performance.
employee morale and current Align achievement of organisational objectives with business plans if we are to remuneration for key managers.
achieve our financial and operating goals.
See People on pages 6-8: Remuneration report on pages 16-24.
For more information about our approach to managing risk, see Corporate governance on pages 25-30.
In addition to the key external and internal risks reviewed by the Board, pages 42-43 sets out the risk factors associated with forward looking statements.
10 Supplementary information Details of our registered office and headquarters can be found on page 119.
Details of substantial shareholdings can be found on page 118.
Details of the waiver of dividends can be found in note 32 on page 95.
Details of our share buyback programme can be found on page 122.
Details of our research and development activity and expenditure can be found on pages 56, 62 and 71-72.
Details of material contracts can be found on pages 125-126.
Details of the structure of the Companys capital can be found on page 120.
Details of the restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company can be found on page 121.
Details of any special rights attached to shares e. g. Founders Share can be found on page 121.
Details of restrictions in voting rights can be found on page 121.
Information on the articles of association can be found on page 120.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Subject to any implications that may result from the completion of the Thomson Reuters transaction, a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the companys 2008 AGM.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
