qxd 18 3 08 18:45 Page 55 Group accounting policies 55 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial acquisition, plus the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves.
statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the 2007, 2006 and 2005, unless otherwise stated.
income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
When the Groups share of losses of an associate or Basis of accounting joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations convention, unless otherwise stated below, and in accordance with the or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Companies Act 1985, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and issued by the IASB.
are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest.
For Group reporting All IFRS issued by the IASB, effective at the time of preparing these financial purposes, the results of associates and joint ventures have been adjusted where statements, have been adopted by the EU through the endorsement procedure necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the established by the European Commission, with the exception of the Group.
International Accounting Standard IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement related to the hedging portfolio.
Foreign currency translation Since the company is not affected by the provisions regarding portfolio hedging Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are that are not required by the EU-endorsed version of IAS39, the accompanying measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the financial statements comply with both IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements issued by the IASB.
are presented in pounds sterling, the companys functional and presentation currency.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency accounting principles requires management to make certain judgements, using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenue and exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement of such transactions, and expenses during the reported period, the reported amount of assets and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income dates.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow and net of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those investment hedges.
Further details regarding areas requiring significant assumptions and estimates Exchange differences on non-monetary items, such as available-for-sale are provided in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
financial assets, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
The results and financial position of all Group companies that have a functional The areas which require a higher degree of judgement include impairments, currency other than sterling are translated as follows: intangible assets, defined benefit pension plans, share-based payments, provisions, leases, segment reporting and taxation.
income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 rate prevailing on the transaction date, in which case income and expenses IFRS7, Financial instruments: Disclosures and the complementary amendment are translated at the date of the transaction : to IAS1, Presentation of financial statements Capital Disclosures, were adopted during the year introducing new disclosures relating to financial assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate at the date of instruments.
Adoption of the standards has not had any impact on the the balance sheet: and classification or valuation of the Groups financial instruments.
all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of Basis of consolidation equity.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Reuters Group PLC and its subsidiaries and the Groups share of the postOn consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net acquisition results of associates and joint ventures.
investment in foreign entities, and from borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
Subsidiaries When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of a foreign entity are on which control is transferred to the Group and fide-consolidated from the date treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing on which control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of Revenue recognition subsidiaries by the Group.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair Revenue represents the turnover, net of discounts, derived from services value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as provided to subscribers and sales of products applicable to the year.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income Revenue from sales of subscription-based real-time and historical information statement.
services is recognised rateably over the term of the subscription.
All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Revenue from contracts for the outright sale of systems-based product In preparing the Group financial statements, accounting policies of subsidiaries solutions, which include the sale of fully developed software licences, is have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting recognised at the time of client acceptance, at which time the Group has no policies adopted by the Group.
Long-term contracts are accounted for in accordance with the contractual terms either on a percentage of completion basis or on a time Associates and joint ventures and materials as incurred basis.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of Revenue from associated maintenance and support services is recognised the voting rights.
Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group has joint rateably over the term of the maintenance contract.
Where contracts allow the control with one or more other entities outside the Group.
Investments in Group to recharge costs from communications suppliers and exchanges associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method of onwards to subscribers, this income is recognised as revenue.
accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill and intangibles identified on Transaction products usage revenue is accounted for on a trade date basis.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp052-059.
qxd 18 3 08 18:45 Page 56 56 Group accounting policies continued Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the amount demonstrated and the Group is satisfied that it is probable that future outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that economic benefits will result from the product or capability once completed.
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of Capitalisation ceases when the product or capability is ready for use.
the financial asset to that assets net carrying value.
Expenditure on research activities, and on development activities that do not Dividend revenue is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment is meet the above criteria, is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Internally developed intangible assets are systematically amortised, on a straight line basis, over their useful economic lives which range from three to Pensions and similar obligations five years.
The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans and provides post-retirement medical benefits.
Other intangibles Software which forms an integral part of the related hardware is capitalised with Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as an expense to that hardware and included within property, plant and equipment.
the income statement, as incurred, when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group has no further legal or constructive payment obligations Costs which are directly associated with the production of software for internal once the contributions have been made.
A defined benefit plan is a pension use in the business are capitalised as an intangible asset.
Software assets are plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful economic lives which range from three to five years.
For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method and is charged to the income Acquired intangible assets include software licences, customer relationships, statement so as to spread the service cost over the service lives of the trade names and trademarks.
These assets are capitalised on acquisition and employees.
An interest cost representing the unwinding of the discount rate on amortised over their expected useful economic lives which range from five to the scheme liabilities, net of the expected return on scheme assets, is charged fifteen years.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet, in respect of defined benefit plans, is the fair value of the defined benefit Impairment of non-financial assets obligation at the balance sheet date.
Pension scheme surpluses are recognised only to the extent that the surplus is considered recoverable.
Recoverability is Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment.
primarily based on the extent to which the Group can unilaterally reduce future contributions to the plan.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually All other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in by independent actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest addition, intangible assets under development and not yet ready for use are rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in a currency in reviewed for impairment annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the which the benefits will be paid and that have terms of maturity approximating amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
to the terms of the relevant pension liability.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell and value in use.
All actuarial gains and losses which arise in calculating the present value of the For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest defined benefit obligation, and the fair value of plan assets, are recognised level for which separately identifiable cash flows exist cash generating units, immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Where assets do not generate independent cash flows and their Post-retirement medical benefits are provided to employees of some Group carrying value cannot be attributed to a particular CGU, CGUs are grouped companies.
The expected costs are determined using an accounting together at the level at which these assets reside, and the carrying amount of methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
this group of CGUs is compared to the recoverable amount of that particular group.
Share-based payments Property, plant and equipment The Group makes equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to its employees.
Equity-settled share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002 All items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less but not vested by 1 January 2005 are measured at fair value at the date of grant depreciation including expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of the using an options pricing methodology and expensed over the vesting period of items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or the award.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews its estimate of the recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that number of options that are expected to vest.
future economic benefit will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Cash-settled share-based payments are accrued over the vesting period of the award, based on the current fair market value at each balance sheet date.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write down the assets to their residual values over their expected useful lives which are as follows: When share options are exercised, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share Freehold land Not depreciated premium.
Freehold buildings Normally 50 years Leasehold property Over the term of the lease Intangible assets Computer systems equipment, office equipment Goodwill and motor vehicles 2 to 5 years Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets including intangible assets of The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill and intangibles on acquisition of associates and joint ventures is included in the Non-current assets held for sale carrying value of the investment.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through a sale entity or investment sold.
transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for Internally generated intangible assets immediate sale in its present condition.
Expenditure related to the development of new products or capabilities that is incurred between establishing technical feasibility and the asset becoming Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured ready for use is capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the useful at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less selling costs.
Capitalisation commences from the point at which the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the product or capability can be Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp052-059.
qxd 18 3 08 18:45 Page 57 Group accounting policies 57 continued Financial Assets Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured Classification at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Provisions Provisions, other than in respect of pension and post-retirement benefits, are loans and receivables: recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will available-for-sale financial assets.
be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination liabilities, employee The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
termination payments and other liabilities incurred as part of restructuring Management determines the classification of its investments at initial programmes.
recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Leasing Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Assets under leasing contracts are classified as finance or operating leases at This category includes financial assets held for trading and those designated at the inception of the lease or when changes are made to existing contracts.
fair value through profit and loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term Assets classified as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at the or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also classified as held for present value of the minimum lease payments determined at the inception of trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance classified as current assets and initially recognised at fair value on the trade sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between date and subsequently remeasured at each reporting date.
Transaction costs finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset are recognised immediately constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Interest or dividend income is recognised separately from the net gain or loss on the asset.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses Operating lease rentals are recognised in the income statement on a straight are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
line basis over the period of the lease.
Operating lease incentives received are initially deferred and then recognised over the full period of the lease.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Assets in this Borrowings category are initially recognised on the trade date at fair value plus transaction Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest and are subsequently stated at amortised cost, adjusted for fair value method.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than movements in respect of related fair value hedges.
Any difference between the 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in assets.
the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Group has classified all of its marketable securities as available-for-sale.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an Assets in this category are initially recognised on the trade date at fair value unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months plus transaction costs and subsequently remeasured at each reporting date.
after the balance sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Borrowing costs on qualifying assets are expensed as incurred and not capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Impairment and derecognition The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective Purchases and sales of financial assets evidence that a financial asset, or group of financial assets, is impaired.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the settlement date, On impairment, the cumulative loss recognised in equity is removed from which is the date that the asset is delivered to or by the Group.
equity and recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the asset, gains or losses recognised in equity are removed from equity and recognised Derivative financial instruments and hedging in the income statement.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method Cash and cash equivalents of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank deposits repayable designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being on demand, other highly liquid investments with original maturities of three hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: months or less, and bank overdrafts.
hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm Inventories and contract work in progress commitment fair value hedges : Inventories and contract work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or net realisable value less progress payments received.
hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry interest and are initially measured at their fair Fair value hedges value, as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair amounts, and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
A provision for value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence that the in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original hedged risk.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash Cash flow hedges flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are recognised in the income statement.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge is recognised in equity.
The gain it is written off against the provision.
or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
qxd 18 3 08 18:45 Page 58 58 Group accounting policies continued Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the Dividend distribution period when the hedged item will affect profit and loss for instance, when the Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the period in which the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset recognised when they are paid: final dividends when authorised in general for example, project costs or a major business investment or a liability, the meeting by shareholders.
gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a Taxation hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in The current tax expense is based on the results for the year as adjusted for equity is immediately recognised in the income statement.
items that are not taxable or not deductible.
Current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance Net investment hedges sheet date.
Derivatives and foreign currency borrowings are used as hedges for net investments in foreign operations.
Any gain or loss on a derivative hedging Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method, and is instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements immediately in the income statement within operating costs.
Any gain or loss and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
on foreign currency borrowings used as a hedge is recognised in equity, subject Deferred tax is calculated based on the expected manner of realisation or to effectiveness.
settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply to the year of realisation or settlement based on tax rates Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
on disposal or impairment of the foreign operation.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary Embedded derivatives differences.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Embedded derivatives arise in certain revenue and purchase contracts where differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures the currency of the contract is different from the functional currencies of the except where the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it parties involved.
Such derivatives are separated from the host contracts when is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
The derivatives are measured at fair value at each balance sheet Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable date using forward exchange market rates.
Changes in the fair value are profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be Certain derivative instruments, while providing effective economic hedges recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the under the Groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair temporary differences arise from goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, or value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other recognised immediately in the income statement.
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are non-derivative financial liabilities which are recognised Segment reporting initially at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at the Business segmentation is the primary reporting dimension for the Group, with higher of the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, geographical segmentation being the secondary reporting dimension.
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, and the amount initially Accordingly, the four business divisions Sales & Trading, Research & Asset recognised.
Management, Enterprise, and Media, are the primary reporting segments for the Group.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as Note 1 on page 60 outlines in detail the allocation approach in respect of available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance divisional results, costs, assets and liabilities.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
Other financial Standards, interpretations and amendments to instruments are valued using standard pricing models based on quoted forward issued standards that are not yet effective market rates, interpolated between dates where appropriate, and discounted Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards cash flow techniques.
have been issued by the IASB or IFRIC that are mandatory for accounting Embedded derivatives arise in revenue and supplier contracts where the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods but which have currency of the contract is different from the functional currencies of the parties not yet been adopted by the EU or which the Group has chosen not to adopt involved.
The derivatives are separated from the host contracts and valued early.
The new standards which are expected to be relevant to the Groups using quoted forward market rates.
operations are as follows: Standards, interpretations and amendments to issued Interest in shares of Reuters Group PLC standards adopted by the EU Shares held by the Reuters Employee Share Ownership Trusts and repurchased IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective from 1 January 2009 shares are recorded in the balance sheet at cost and reported as a deduction IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and aligns segment reporting with from shareholders equity.
the requirements of US accounting standards FAS 131 Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.
The new standard uses a Irrevocable commitments to repurchase shares during close periods entered management approach, under which segment information is presented on the into before the balance sheet date are recorded in the balance sheet at same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group has estimated cost and reported as a current liability with a corresponding assessed the impact of IFRS 8 and concluded that segment reporting will deduction from shareholders equity.
continue to be focused on the business divisions with the distinction between primary and secondary segments being removed.
qxd 18 3 08 18:45 Page 59 Group accounting policies 59 continued IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements effective from 1 January 2008 effective from 1 January 2009 IFRIC 12 provides guidance on certain recognition and measurement issues that IAS 1 revised constitutes Phase A of the IASBs project on performance arise in accounting for public and private service concession arrangements.
Where previously companies were required to present only one of It amends IFRIC 4 to exclude from the scope of IFRIC 4 any service concession either a Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE or a Statement arrangements that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12.
The Group has assessed of Recognised Changes in Equity SOCIE, the amendments require companies the impact of the interpretation and concluded that it is not likely to have a to present both a SOCIE and either a statement of comprehensive income or significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
an income statement accompanied by a statement of other comprehensive IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective from 1 July 2008 income as financial statements formerly referred to as primary statements.
Where a customer loyalty programme operates, IFRIC 13 requires an entity to Other changes include the requirement to present a statement of financial separate sales revenue into revenue for sale of the goods or services and position balance sheet as at the beginning of the comparative period when an revenue for sale of the loyalty points based on the fair value of the loyalty entity restates the comparatives following a change in accounting policy, the points : with the latter being deferred until the loyalty points are redeemed.
correction of an error, or the reclassification of items in the financial statements: The IFRIC explains how to determine the fair value of the consideration for the and clarification of disclosure requirements relating to income tax on items loyalty points and how to account for redemption.
It also addresses whether recognised in other comprehensive income, dividends, and recycling to the agency relationships arise where a third party provides the loyalty reward, and income statement comprehensive income of gains previously recognised in when a loyalty scheme might be considered to be onerous.
The Group has other comprehensive income.
The Group has assessed the impact of the assessed the impact of the interpretation and concluded that it is not likely to revision and concluded that it is not likely to have a significant effect on the have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding effective from 1 January 2008 Requirements and their Interaction effective from 1 January 2008 IFRIC 11 addresses share-based payment arrangements in which a an entity IFRIC 14 clarifies the requirements of IAS 19, which limits the measurement of a grants its employees a right to equity instruments of the entity, and either defined benefit asset to the present value of any economic benefits available chooses or is required to buy those equity instruments from another party or in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the the shareholder provides the equity instruments needed to settle the shareplan plus unrecognised gains and losses: this is known as the asset ceiling.
based payment arrangement: and b a subsidiary entitys employees are The IFRIC addresses when refunds or reductions in future contributions should granted rights to equity instruments of the parent entity or another entity in the be regarded as available: how a minimum funding requirement might affect the same group, in particular, arrangements in which the parent entity or the availability of reductions in future contributions: and when a minimum funding subsidiary entity grants those rights direct to the subsidiary entitys employees.
requirement might give rise to an additional liability.
The Group has assessed the impact of the interpretation and concluded that it is not likely to have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to issued standards not yet adopted by the EU IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs effective from 1 January 2009 The amendments to IAS 23 remove the option of expensing borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets.
Although the amendments are intended to clarify definitions of qualifying assets and eligible borrowing costs especially in the case of land under development the amendments are not intended to change the definitions fundamentally.
The Group has assessed the impact of IAS 23 revised and the current policy will need to be amended from 1 January 2009 onwards to capitalise borrowing costs.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
