qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 118 118 Information for shareholders Ordinary shares As of 17 March 2008, there were 1,213,303,412 ordinary shares outstanding, excluding 24,511,550 ordinary shares held in employee share ownership trusts and 135,860,000 held in treasury.
Major shareholders The company had received notice under section 198 of the UK Companies Act or under the Transparency Obligations Directive Disclosure and Transparency Rules Instrument 2006 DTRs DTR 5, as at 7 March 2008 that the following parties held notifiable interests in its shares or voting rights: Number of Percentage of Number of Number of Number of shares held on issued share shares held on shares held on shares held on 17 March 2008 capital 9 March 2007 7 March 2006 2 March 2005 Schroders Plc 62,544,396 5.05 99,602,990 ValueAct Capital Master Fund L. P 48,243,934 3.90 83,551,212 Fidelity International Limited 82,177,979 150,753,687 130,364,252 AMVESCAP plc 62,194,192 5.02 62,194,192 BlackRock Inc 48,978,642 3.95 48,978,642 48,978,642 48,978,642 Legal & General Investment Management 51,519,332 4.16 44,901,479 55,230,590 58,006,887 Barclays PLC 40,069,073 3.24 40,069,073 53,902,608 Capital Group of Companies, Inc 39,399,900 42,135,514 Credit Suisse 136,431,306 11.01 Deutsche Bank AG 64,268,832 5.19 The companys major shareholders do not have any different voting The current trustees of the Founders Share Company are as rights from the other ordinary shareholders.
There have been some follows: changes in the holdings of the companys major shareholders during Trustee since the last three years.
Most notably Fidelity no longer holds in excess of The Honourable Mrs Anson Chan, GBM, CBE, JP 2002 3% of the companys voting capital as was the case during 2005 to Leonard Berkowitz 1998 early 2007.
Barclays PLC, Legal & General Investments and BlackRock Sir Michael Checkland 1994 Inc. have held notifiable holdings for the last three years and continue to do so.
Following the implementation of the new DTRs on Bertrand Collomb 2004 20 January 2007, Schroders Plc, ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. Jiri Dienstbier 2005 Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse and AMVESCAP plc notified the Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, MP 2001 company of their voting rights in Reuters shares during 2007.
John Fairfax, AM 2005 Pehr Gyllenhammar Chairman 1997 The Founders Share Alejandro Junco fide la Vega 2006 Independence, integrity and freedom from bias in the gathering and Joseph Lelyveld 2004 dissemination of news and information are fundamental to Reuters.
Sir Christopher Mallaby, GCMG, GCVO 1998 Reuters Founders Share Company Limited the Founders Share John McArthur 2001 Company was established to safeguard those qualities and holds a Mammen Mathew 2002 single Founders Share.
This share may be used to outvote all ordinary shares if other safeguards fail and there is an attempt to effect a The Right Hon The Baroness Noakes, DBE 1998 change in control of the company.
Control, for this purpose, means Sir William Purves, CBE, DSO 1998 30% of the ordinary shares.
The directors of the Founders Share Jaakko Rauramo 1999 Company have a duty to ensure, as far as they are able by the proper Dr Sachio Semmoto 2007 exercise of the powers vested in them, that the Reuters Trust Dr Mark Wssner 2001 Principles are observed see page 120.
The Founders Share Companys directors are nominated by a Nomination Committee Dr Frene Ginwala retired as trustee and director on 18 October 2007. which includes certain serving directors of the Founders Share Company, one person nominated by each of four news associations, Founders Share Company directors are appointed for an initial term of two people appointed by the Chairman of Reuters Group PLC and five years and must resign at the AGM on or after the fifth anniversary two people appointed after consultation with the European Court of following appointment or re-appointment.
Trustees are eligible for Human Rights.
A director of the Founders Share Company may not be re-appointment for a further term of five years, subject to a maximum a director or employee of Reuters Group.
The upper age limit of 75 was removed from the companys Articles of Association on 18 October 2007.
Except as described above, particularly in relation to the proposed acquisition of Reuters by Thomson, to the best of the Groups knowledge, the company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation, by any foreign government or by any other natural or legal person, severally or jointly, and currently there are no arrangements that may, at a subsequent date, result in a change in control of the company.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp118-129.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 119 Information for shareholders 119 continued The Founders Share Company Directors voted in favour of the Analysis of shareholders acquisition of Reuters by Thomson, which agreed to safeguard the As of 17 March 2008, there were 1,213,303,412 Reuters ordinary shares Reuters Trust Principles as described on page 120. in issue, including the shares referred to below but excluding ordinary shares held by employee share ownership trusts and shares held in treasury.
There were 23,442 shareholders on the ordinary share register Corporate structure analysed in the chart below.
As of the same date, 1,093,693 ordinary The Group conducts its business through a portfolio of companies, shares and 15,145,907 ADSs representing 90,875,442 ordinary shares including wholly and partly-owned subsidiary undertakings, joint were held on the record in the US.
These ordinary shares and ADSs ventures and associates.
Information concerning the most significant were held by 1,095 record holders and 2,287 record holders companies is contained in note 39 to the consolidated financial respectively, and represented 0.090% or evidenced ADSs respectively, Statements, on page 105. representing 7.47% respectively of the total number of ordinary shares outstanding.
Since certain of these ordinary shares and ADSs were Trading markets held by brokers or other nominees, the number of record holders in The companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders Exchange.
American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing six or of where the beneficial holders are resident.
ordinary shares, are traded on NASDAQ.
The ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs issued by Deutsche Bank Trust Other 50% Company Americas, as depositary under a deposit agreement, dated Investment trusts, unit trusts 18 February 1998 and supplemented 16 December 2005 the Deposit and mutual funds 24% Agreement, among the company, the Depositary and ADR holders.
Pension funds 11% The table below sets out, for the periods indicated i the reported ADSs 7% high and low sales prices for the ordinary shares based on the Daily Insurance companies 4% Official List of the London Stock Exchange and ii the reported high Private investors 2% and low sales prices of the ADSs on NASDAQ.
Foreign governments 1% Non-profit organisations 1% The London Stock exchange NASDAQ pounds per share US dollars per ADS High Low High Low Dividends Annual market prices The table below sets forth the amounts of interim, final and total 2003 2.68 0.96 27.09 9.59 dividends excluding any associated UK tax credit discussed on 2004 4.29 2.41 49.15 25.72 page 123 paid in respect of each fiscal year indicated.
Pound sterling amounts per share have been translated into US cents per ADS at the 2005 4.31 3.52 49.35 37.33 actual rates of exchange used for each of the respective payments of 2006 4.75 3.49 54.25 38.51 interim and final dividends.
The directors recommend a second interim Fourth quarter 6.61 5.82 83.69 72.01 dividend of 7.00 pence per ordinary share, giving a total of 12 pence Monthly market prices per ordinary share for the year 2006: 11 pence.
The second interim 2007 dividend will be paid on 1 May 2008 to members on the register August 6.39 6.00 78.10 73.15 holding ordinary shares at the close of business on 25 March 2008.
It will be paid on 8 May 2008 to ADS holders on the register at the September 6.55 6.31 79.76 77.43 close of business on 25 March 2008 and will be converted into October 6.61 6.39 83.39 79.23 US dollars from sterling at the rate prevailing on 1 May 2008.
November 6.60 5.82 83.69 72.56 December 6.40 5.85 76.81 72.01 Details of the changes in the authorised and called up share capital Monthly market prices are set out in note 27 on page 91.
2008 January 6.35 5.65 75.35 67.54 History and development February 6.14 5.98 73.25 69.66 The ultimate holding company for the Group, Reuters Group PLC, was March to 17 March 6.08 5.73 75.00 69.36 incorporated in England and Wales on 24 December 1996, though its predecessor was formed in England in 1851.
Reuters Group PLCs registered office and corporate headquarters are located at The Reuters Building, South Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5EP, UK.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 120 120 Information for shareholders continued outstanding at any time excluding any shares held by Reuters as Memorandum and Articles of Association treasury shares.
The term interested is defined in the Articles by The following description summarises certain material rights of reference to provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985 which require holders of the companys ordinary shares of 25 pence each and persons to disclose to public companies interests in voting shares in material provisions of the companys Articles, the Memorandum and excess of a prescribed percentage.
Subject to certain exceptions, all Articles of association of the Founders Share Company and English shares held by a person who reaches the 15% limit will be law.
The following description is a summary only and is qualified in its disenfranchised and the shares exceeding the 15% limit must be entirety by reference to the Articles which have been filed with the disposed of.
This set of restrictions is more fully described below SEC and Companies House and the UK Companies Act 1985. under Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Restrictions on ownership Disenfranchisement and disposals of excess interests.
All of the outstanding ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required from the holders of Second, the companys share capital includes the Founders Share, such shares by Reuters.
In this description, the term holder refers to which is held by the Founders Share Company, a company limited by the person registered in the register of members as the holder of the guarantee consisting of individuals who constitute both its members relevant share and the term beneficial owner refers to a person other and directors.
The Founders Share empowers the Founders Share than the holder who has a beneficial interest in the relevant share.
Company to cast such number of votes as will pass any resolution Deutsche Bank, which acts as Depositary under the Deposit supported by and defeat any resolution opposed by, the Founders Agreement relating to the ADSs, is the holder of the ordinary shares Share Company if it believes that any person or persons have represented by the outstanding ADSs.
obtained, or are seeking to obtain, control of the Group.
Control for these purposes is defined as the ability to control the exercise of 30% General or more of the votes that may be cast on a poll at general meetings.
Reuters Group PLC is incorporated under that name and is registered Under the Articles, the special rights attaching to the Founders Share in England and Wales with registered number 3296375.
Its objects are may not be varied or abrogated in any respect without the prior set out in the fourth clause of its Memorandum of Association and written consent of the Founders Share Company.
The rights attaching cover a wide range of activities, including the following: to the Founders Share are described in more detail below under collecting information and supplying news and information services Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Voting rights Rights and products: conferred by the Founders Share.
acquiring and operating wireless installations, satellites and other The restrictions on interests in ordinary shares and the extraordinary means of communication: voting rights of the Founders Share may be characterised as antitakeover provisions to the extent they may have the effect of utilising the Groups communications capabilities to provide various preventing a bid for control of the Group.
Tender offers or other financial and securities markets services: and nonmarket acquisitions of shares are usually made at prices above the prevailing market price of a companys shares.
Acquisitions of shares carrying on any other business supplemental to the foregoing or by persons attempting to acquire control through market purchases capable of enhancing the Groups profitability or capitalising on the may support the price of shares at market levels higher than otherwise Groups expertise.
The restrictions and extraordinary voting rights summarised in this section may be expected to reduce the number of The Memorandum of Association provides a broad range of corporate such offers.
powers to effect these objectives.
Directors The Reuters Trust Principles and the Founders Share Company The companys Articles provide for a board of directors consisting of The Articles contain two sets of restrictions relating to the ownership not fewer than five nor more than 15 directors.
The Articles require of Reuters shares.
These restrictions are intended to ensure continued that, in performing their duties, the directors have due regard for the compliance with the following principles the Reuters Trust Principles Reuters Trust Principles insofar as, by the proper exercise of their set out in the Article F. 114: powers and in accordance with their other duties as directors, the directors may do so.
that Reuters shall at no time pass into the hands of any one interest, group or faction: The Articles contain provisions that require the board of directors to include at least five non-executive directors before a new executive that the integrity, independence and freedom from bias of Reuters director can be appointed.
shall at all times be fully preserved: Under the Articles, a director may not vote in respect of any contract, that Reuters shall supply unbiased and reliable news services to arrangement or proposal in which the director, or any person newspapers, news agencies, broadcasters and other media connected with the director, has any material interest other than by subscribers and to businesses, governments, institutions, individuals virtue of the directors interests in securities of, or otherwise in or and others with whom Reuters has or may have contracts: through, the company.
This is subject to certain exceptions relating to that Reuters shall pay due regard to the many interests which it proposals a giving the director any guarantee, security or indemnity serves in addition to those of the media: and in respect of obligations incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Group, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third that no effort shall be spared to expand, develop and adapt the party in respect of obligations of the Group for which the director has news and other services and products of Reuters so as to maintain assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating its leading position in the international news and information to an offer of securities of the Group in which the director may be business.
entitled to participate or will be interested as an underwriter, d concerning any other company in which the director is beneficially The first set of restrictions contained in the Articles applies to persons interested in less than 1% of the issued shares of any class of the that become interested in 15% or more of the ordinary shares company or the voting rights available to its shareholders, e relating Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp118-129.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 121 Information for shareholders 121 continued to the adoption, modification or operation of any employee benefits Rights conferred by the Founders Share The Founders Share plan which will provide the director with the same benefits as other confers upon the Founders Share Company the right to cast such employees and f relating to any liability insurance that Reuters is number of votes as are necessary to defeat any resolution which empowered to purchase for its directors or employees in respect of would vary or abrogate the rights of the Founders Share.
The Articles actions undertaken as directors or officers of the Group.
provide that the alteration of specified articles relating to the Founders Share and the Reuters Trust Principles are deemed to The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Group constitute a variation of the rights of the Founders Share.
In addition, to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate any resolution proposing the winding up of the Group voluntarily, by principal amount outstanding in respect of monies borrowed by the the Court, or any reconstruction of the Group, or any resolution which Group shall not exceed a sum equal to two and a half times the would attach to any share voting rights not identical in all respects companys share capital and aggregate reserves, calculated in the with those of the ordinary shares, is deemed to be a variation of the manner described in the Articles and 5,000 million, unless sanctioned rights of the Founders Share.
by an ordinary resolution of the companys shareholders.
Additionally, if there are, in the opinion of the Founders Share At each AGM of Reuters shareholders at least one-third of the Company, reasonable grounds for believing that any person and his directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number associates have obtained or are attempting to obtain, directly or nearest to but not greater than one-third shall retire from office by indirectly, control of Reuters, the Founders Share Company is entitled rotation.
A retiring director shall be eligible for re-election subject to in its absolute discretion to serve Reuters with a written notice a the requirements of the Combined Code.
Since the 2005 AGM, the Founders Share Control Notice to that effect.
Control is defined for Board has asked all directors to stand for re-election on an annual these purposes as the ability to control the exercise of 30% or more of basis.
For additional information see Statements of directors the votes which may be cast on a poll at a general meeting.
At all responsibilities and compliance on page 27. times after the service of a Founders Share Control Notice and pending its rescission, the Founders Share confers upon the Founders Directors are not required to hold shares in order to qualify as a Share Company the right to cast on a poll such number of votes as are director.
A director not holding any shares may nevertheless attend necessary to ensure the effective passing of any resolution in favour of and speak at general meetings of the company.
For further which it votes and to ensure the defeat of any resolution against which information on Reuters personal shareholding policy for executives, it votes.
The Articles provide that the opinion of the Founders Share refer to the Remuneration report on page 17.
Company in respect of the service or rescission of a Founders Share Control Notice shall be final and binding and may not be challenged Rights and restrictions attaching to shares on any grounds whatsoever.
Dividends The Founders Share Company is entitled at any time to serve Reuters Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to participate in the payment with a written request for an extraordinary general meeting and the of dividends pro rata to their holdings.
The Founders Share is not directors are obliged to comply with such request.
If they do not entitled to participate in the payment of dividends nor will any comply, the Founders Share Company is entitled to convene an dividend be paid on any shares held by Reuters in treasury.
The Board extraordinary general meeting.
If a Founders Share Control Notice has may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final been served, however, the Founders Share Company can convene an dividend, in respect of any accounting period out of the profits extraordinary general meeting without first requesting that the available for distribution under English law.
Four Founders Share Company directors present at the relevant Founders Share Company directors meeting can bind all A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in general the Founders Share Company directors to exercise the voting rights meeting by ordinary resolution, but no dividend may be declared in attaching to the Founders Share so as to defeat a resolution that excess of the amount recommended by the Board.
would be deemed to be a variation of the rights attached to the The company may allot ordinary shares in lieu of cash dividends, Founders Share.
However, the vote of a majority of the Founders subject to shareholder approval at the time the relevant dividend is Share Company directors the chairman of the Founders Share declared.
In addition, the company may declare and pay equivalent Company having a casting vote in the event of equality of votes is dividends to shareholders outside the United Kingdom in local required to determine whether a Founders Share Control Notice currencies and pay such dividends to the Depositary for value on the should be served and, if so, the manner in which the voting rights payment date.
attaching to the Founders Share shall be exercised excluding the vote of any Founders Share Company directors who is associated with or Voting rights materially financially interested in the person attempting to obtain Rights conferred by ordinary shares Voting at a general meeting of control of Reuters.
shareholders is by show of hands unless, before or on making known the result, a poll is demanded in accordance with the Articles.
If voting Restrictions on ownership is by show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who is present in Ordinary shares Under the Articles, a person is interested in shares person has one vote.
On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares who is if, among other things, he is interested directly, or through his family present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share or one or more companies, or through an interest in association with held.
Voting on all resolutions is carried out by way of a poll.
others pursuant to an agreement or understanding, or through a trust or if he controls the voting rights of others.
The definition of interest The Company now chooses to put all resolutions at the AGM to a in shares in the Articles is made by reference, with specified poll vote.
variations, to certain provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985.
Holders of a substantial number of ordinary shares may be Disclosure of interests in ordinary shares The Articles provide for disenfranchised under the circumstances described under Restrictions the disclosure of interests in Reuters ordinary shares by reference to on ownership below.
the UK Companies Act 1985 provisions mentioned above, with specified variations.
Under these provisions as currently in force, if a person acquires an interest in voting shares of a public company Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp118-129.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 122 122 Information for shareholders continued amounting to 10% or more of the voting shares of any class, or if he Shares held by Employee Ownership Share Trusts Reuters has increases or reduces such holding by at least 1% or if he ceases to established employee ownership share trusts, the trustee of which is have such holding, he is obliged to notify the company within two Computershare Trustees C. I.
There is no days of the day on which he acquired 10% or any such change in his formal agreement between Reuters and the Trustees but the Trust interest took place.
Further, if his interest is a material interest the Deed allows the Trustees to waive voting and allows Reuters to 10% referred to above is reduced to 3%.
request the Trustees to consider the companys views in writing.
In practice, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Articles provide for disenfranchisement of shares which are the subject of a notice under section 212 of the UK Companies Act 1985 Pre-emptive rights, new issues of shares, sale of treasury shares which allows a company to require disclosure of certain details and repurchase of shares concerning ownership of its shares if the person served with the Holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the notice is in default in answering it.
The Articles also provide for the Articles.
However, the ability of the directors to cause the company to imposition of restrictions on transferability of the shares concerned issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, or to and on the right to receive dividends if such shares represent at least sell treasury shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share 0.25% of the class concerned.
Such restrictions cannot, however, be scheme, is restricted.
imposed until the expiry of 14 days after the date of the section 212 Under the Companies Act 1985, the directors are, with certain notice.
Any such restrictions cease if the shares concerned are sold exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express pursuant to a takeover offer or to an unconnected third party or authorisation, which may be contained in the Articles or given by its through the London Stock Exchange.
The restrictions on transferability shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last only apply to certificated shares.
Where a holder of uncertificated for more than five years.
The UK Companies Act 1985 imposes further shares is in default in answering a section 212 notice, the Articles restrictions on the issue of equity securities for cash or sale of treasury provide that the Founders Share Company may require the Groups shares for cash other than by offering them first to existing directors to apply to the Court for such order as may be appropriate.
shareholders unless the statutory requirement is displaced or modified Disenfranchisement and disposals of excess interests Subject to by the shareholders in general meeting or under the companys certain exceptions described below, certain restrictions apply to Articles.
persons that become interested as defined in the Articles in 15% or During 2007 Reuters continued to operate the 1 billion share buymore of the ordinary shares.
If any person becomes interested in 15% back programme it announced on 26 July 2005 up until shortly before or more of the outstanding shares excluding any shares held by the acquisition of Reuters by Thomson was announced and then again Reuters as treasury shares the Relevant Shares, the directors are between 13 and 31 December 2007.
During 2007, 36,575,000 shares required to serve a Restriction Notice on that person, on any other with a nominal value of 9,143,750 representing 2.6% of called-up person known to the directors to have an interest in the Relevant share capital were repurchased at a cost of 174 million.
Shares and, if different, on the registered holder of the Relevant Shares.
While a Restriction Notice in respect of Relevant Shares is in Rights in a winding up force, a registered holder of the Relevant Shares is not entitled to If Reuters Group PLC is wound up, the liquidator may, with the attend or vote, either in person or by proxy, at any general meeting authority of an extraordinary resolution, divide among the holders of or at any meeting of the holders of any class of Reuters shares.
ordinary shares and the Founders Share, pro rata to their holdings, In addition, a Restriction Notice will require such person to dispose of Reuters assets after satisfaction of liabilities to creditors, provided, any Relevant Shares exceeding the 15% limit and supply evidence to however, that the Founders Share Company may receive up to 1 and the company that such disposal has occurred within 21 days or such no more.
longer period as the directors consider reasonable.
If such disposition is not made within the specified period, the directors must as far as Variation of rights and alteration of share capital they are able, dispose of any shares exceeding the 15% limit.
Under If, at any time, the companys share capital is divided into different the Articles, any belief, resolution, decision or action of the directors classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, held, made or taken pursuant to any of the provisions concerning subject to the provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985, with the restrictions on ownership shall be conclusive, final and binding on all consent in writing of holders of three-quarters in value of the shares of persons concerned and may not be challenged on any grounds that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed whatsoever.
at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles The restrictions are subject to certain modifications where a person relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the becomes interested in 15% or more of the issued shares of any class quorum is to be the number of persons which must be two or more by reason of a rights issue or an underwriting in the ordinary course of who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal its business.
value of the issued shares of the class.
The Founders Share Ownership of the Founders Share is restricted to The company can increase its share capital by ordinary resolution in the Founders Share Company.
Under its Memorandum of Association, conformity with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985. the Founders Share Company is not permitted, directly or indirectly, to However, new shares cannot have voting rights, which are not identical dispose of the Founders Share or of any interest therein, or to grant to those of ordinary shares without the prior written consent of the any rights in respect of the Founders Share or any interest therein.
Furthermore, the company may issue shares with preferred and other special rights or restrictions, provided Treasury Shares Reuters may acquire and thereafter hold up to 10% that the prior written consent of the Founders Share Company has of its issued listed share capital in treasury.
Any such acquisition must been sought for issuing any shares with rights not identical to those of be financed from the distributable profits of Reuters.
The company can consolidate, divide and cancel any certain limited exceptions, the rights attaching to shares while held in of its shares other than the Founders Share by extraordinary treasury will be suspended.
Treasury shares may only be subsequently resolution and can reduce its share capital other than the disposed of by Reuters by way of cash sale, transfer for the purposes Founders Share.
of or pursuant to an employees share scheme or cancellation.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 123 Information for shareholders 123 continued rates between the pound sterling and the other major currencies AGMs and extraordinary general meetings including the US dollar in which revenues are received and expenses EGMs are incurred, see the OFR on page 31.
AGMs must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
An extraordinary general meeting must be convened upon advance Taxation information for US shareholders written notice of 21 days for the passing of a special resolution and The following discussion of taxation is intended only as a descriptive 14 days for any other resolution, depending on the nature of the summary and does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or business to be transacted.
The notice must specify the nature of the listing of all potential tax effects relevant to a decision to acquire the business to be transacted if it is other than routine business or if an companys ordinary shares or ADSs.
This is a summary of the material extraordinary or a special resolution is proposed.
The notice may also US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of the ownership of specify a time, not more than 48 hours prior to the time fixed for the ordinary shares or ADSs by a US holder who holds the ordinary shares meeting, by which a person must be entered on the companys or ADSs as capital assets.
The summary does not take into account register in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting.
the specific circumstances of any particular investors, some of which If voting by proxy, shareholders are required to lodge their completed may be subject to special rules, such as dealers in securities, US form of proxy with the Company not less than 48 hours before the holders who hold directly or indirectly 10% or more of the voting stock time appointed for the holding of the shareholders meeting or or US holders who elected to apply the provisions of the former adjourned shareholders meeting.
income tax convention between the United States and the United Kingdom.
In addition, the summary is based in part upon the Changes to the Articles of Association representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each In accordance with UK company law and the Articles, shareholder obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will approval must be sought prior to any changes to the Articles and if be performed in accordance with its terms.
The summaries of US and any F Articles those affecting or pertaining to the Founders Share UK tax laws are based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as Company or Founders Share are to be changed, the Founders Share amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, Company must also approve.
published rulings and court decisions, current tax laws, current UK Revenue and Customs published practice and the terms of the UK US double tax treaty which came into effect on 31 March 2003 the Limitations on voting and shareholding Treaty, as appropriate, all of which are subject to change at any time, There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys possibly with retrospective effect.
Articles on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitations that would For the purposes of this discussion, a US holder is any beneficial generally apply to all of Reuters shareholders.
owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is i a citizen or resident for tax purposes of the US, ii a corporation organised under the laws of the Exchange control US or any US State, iii an estate the income of which is subject to US Under English law and the Articles, persons who are neither residents federal income tax without regard to its source, or iv a trust if a court nor nationals of the UK may freely hold, vote and transfer their within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over the ordinary shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
remittances of dividends to non-resident holders of ordinary shares or on the conduct of Reuters operations.
Taxation of dividends UK taxation Exchange rates Under current UK taxation legislation, no withholding tax will be The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the average or deducted from dividends paid by the company.
A shareholder that is a the high and low Noon Buying Rates for pounds sterling in US dollars company resident for UK tax purposes in the UK will not generally be per 1. taxable on any dividend it receives from the company.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is entitled to a Fiscal year ended tax credit on cash dividends paid by the company on ordinary shares 31 December Average Month High Low or ADSs equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend or 10% of the August 2007 2.04 1.98 dividend plus the tax credit.
Such shareholders will be taxable on the 2003 1.64 September 2007 2.04 1.99 total of the dividend and the related tax credit, which will be regarded 2004 1.84 October 2007 2.08 2.03 2005 1.83 November 2007 2.11 2.05 as the top slice of the shareholders income.
The tax credit may be set off against a UK resident individual shareholders total income tax 2006 1.86 December 2007 2.07 1.98 2007 2.01January 20081.991.95 liability, but no cash refund will be available.
A US holder as defined 2008 to 17 March 1.99 February 2008 1.99 1.94 above will not be entitled to any tax credit from the UK Revenue and Customs in respect of a dividend from the company although there The average exchange rates have been calculated using the Noon Buying Rates on the last will be no further UK tax to pay in respect of that dividend.
trading day of each calendar month during the period.
US federal income taxation On 17 March 2008 the Noon Buying Rate was $2.00 per 1.
The gross amount of any dividend paid by the company to a US holder will generally be subject to US federal income taxation.
Such a Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of the dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations with respect to dividends from ADSs upon conversion by the Depositary of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs.
The amount of the dividend to be included in income will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments fluctuations in the exchange rate may affect the relative market prices of the ADSs in the US and the ordinary shares in the UK.
For the effect made, determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the on the Groups results of operations of fluctuations in the exchange Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp118-129.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 124 124 Information for shareholders continued date of the dividend distribution, regardless of whether the payment payable on conveyances or transfers of ordinary shares, at the rate of is in fact converted into US dollars.
0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration, if any, for the transfer rounded up to the next multiple of 5.
SDRT will be Qualified dividend income imposed, at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the An individual US holders qualified dividend income is subject to tax consideration for the transfer if an agreement is made for the transfer at a reduced rate of 15% provided that the shares or ADSs are held for of ordinary shares, unless an instrument of transfer of the ordinary at least 61 days of the 121 day period beginning on the date which is shares in favour of the purchaser, or its nominee, is executed and duly 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other stamped within six years of the day that the agreement is made or, in holding period requirements.
Dividends will not however qualify for a case where the agreement is conditional, the day that the condition the reduced rate if the dividend-paying corporation is treated for the is satisfied in which case, any SDRT paid will be repaid together with tax year in which dividends are paid or for the prior year, as a interest where the SDRT is not less than 25 on a claim for repayment passive foreign investment company a PFIC for US federal income or, to the extent not paid, the charge to SDRT will be cancelled.
The company does not believe it is a PFIC or was a PFIC is in general payable by the purchaser of ordinary shares, but there are for 2007.
Accordingly, the company considers that dividends paid with regulations which provide for collection from other persons in certain respect to the shares or ADSs will be qualified dividend income and, circumstances, including from CREST where the relevant ordinary subject to the US holders satisfaction of the holding period shares are held in CREST.
UK stamp duty or SDRT will generally be requirements described above, should be eligible for the reduced imposed on any instrument transferring ordinary shares to a person, or 15% US federal income tax rate.
The company dividends generally will to a nominee or agent for such a person, whose business is or be foreign source passive income for US foreign tax credit purposes.
includes issuing depositary receipts such as the ADSs for relevant securities.
In these circumstances, stamp duty or SDRT will be charged at the rate of approximately 1.5% of the amount or value of the Taxation of capital gains consideration for the conveyance or transfer on sale or, otherwise, UK taxation 1.5% of the value of the security transferred at the date the instrument Upon a sale or other disposal by a holder of ordinary shares or ADSs, is executed.
a gain or loss may be recognised for UK capital gains tax purposes equal broadly to the difference between the sterling value of the A transfer into CREST will not be subject to this charge.
A transfer of disposal proceeds and the holders tax basis in the relevant ordinary ordinary shares from a depositary, or its agent or nominee, to a shares or ADSs and subject to the availability of any applicable transferee, which results in the cancellation of the ADS, which exemptions.
Under the Treaty, capital gains on disposals of ordinary cancellation is liable to stamp duty as a conveyance or transfer on shares or ADSs will generally be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction sale because it completes a sale of such ordinary shares, will be liable of residence of the relevant holder as determined for the purposes of to ad valorem stamp duty, at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value the Treaty, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are held as part of the of the consideration, if any, for the transfer.
A transfer of ordinary business property of a permanent establishment of that holder in the shares from a depositary, or its agent or nominee, to the ADS holder, UK in which case such capital gains may be subject to tax in both which results in cancellation of the ADS but where there is no transfer jurisdictions.
The Treaty also contains an anti-avoidance rule which will of beneficial ownership, is not liable to duty as a conveyance or be relevant to individuals who are residents of either the UK or the US transfer on sale, but will be liable to a fixed stamp duty of 5. and who have been resident of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately US PFIC status preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs.
The Treaty If a foreign company is a PFIC, based on either an income test or an provides that, in such circumstances, capital gains arising from the asset test then certain distributions and gains can be allocated disposal may be subject to tax not only in the jurisdiction of which the rateably over a US shareholders holding period, with the effect that holder is resident at the time of the disposal, but also in that other the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year jurisdiction.
before the company became a PFIC would be taxable as ordinary income in the current year and the amount allocated to other taxable US Taxation years would be taxed at the highest rate in effect for that year on Upon a sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary shares or ordinary income.
The tax is also subject to an interest charge to ADSs, a US holder will unless a nonrecognition rule applies generally recover the deemed benefit from the deferred payment of the tax recognise gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between attributable to each such year.
As referred to under the heading the U. S. dollar value of the amount realised and the US holders tax Taxation of dividends Qualified dividend income, the company basis in the shares.
Subject to the application of the PFIC rules reasonably believes that it was not a PFIC in 2007 and does not discussed below, such gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss anticipate becoming a PFIC.
However, the tests for determining PFIC and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the US holders holding status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate period determined with the application of certain at-risk rules of the predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year at the time of the determination.
Accordingly, we cannot assure US holders that the IRS disposition.
Non-corporate US holders currently are subject to a would agree with our belief, nor can the company assure US holders maximum tax rate of 15% on long-term capital gain for taxable years that it will not become a PFIC.
US holders are urged to consult their beginning on or before December 31, 2010.
The deductibility of own tax advisors about the PFIC rules, including the consequences to capital losses is subject to limitations.
them of making a mark-to-market election with respect to our ordinary shares and ADSs in the event that we qualify as a PFIC.
Additional tax considerations US information reporting and backup withholding UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax A US holder is generally subject to information reporting requirements No UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will be payable with respect to dividends paid in the US on ordinary shares or ADSs on the transfer of an ADS, or agreement to transfer an ADS, provided and disposal proceeds realised from the sale, exchange, redemption that the instrument of transfer, or written agreement, is executed and or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs.
In addition, a US holder retained outside the UK and does not relate to any matter or thing is subject to backup withholding currently at a rate of 28% on done, or to be done, in the UK.
UK stamp duty will generally be Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp118-129.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 125 Information for shareholders 125 continued dividends paid in the US on ordinary shares or ADSs and disposal services to, a competing, cleared platform for electronic trading of FX proceeds realised from the sale, exchange, redemption or other products other than futures and futures options.
If the venture disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless the US holder is a requires funding beyond the committed amounts and only one corporation, provides an IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes a partner is willing to provide such funding, the other party will have a basis for exemption.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
right to terminate these restrictions subject to a call right of the nonThe amount of any backup withholding will be allowed as a credit terminating party.
against a US holders US federal income tax liability and may be Reuters has entered into agreements to provide trading access to and refunded, provided that certain information is timely furnished to trade notification services for, and distribute market data from, the IRS.
FXMarketSpace, among various other services and arrangements.
For further information, see note 34 on pages 99-100.
Material contracts and transactions Acquisition by Thomson and creation of Dual-Listed Company BT Network Services Agreement On 15 May 2007, Reuters and Thomson entered into a definitive Reuters entered into a contract with BT effective 29 April 2005 under agreement the Implementation Agreement under which Reuters which BT became a supplier of network services to Reuters.
Under this agreed to be acquired by Thomson by implementing a dual listed network services agreement, which has since been amended, BT company DLC structure.
Under the DLC structure, Thomson provides and manages secure data networks for Reuters products and Reuters will have two parent companies, both of which will be publicly services worldwide and Reuters is currently expected to spend in the listed: Thomson Reuters PLC, a new English company in which region of $3.5 billion from 2005 through 2015.
The agreement sets out existing Reuters Shareholders will receive shares as part of their the responsibilities of the parties to achieve the migration of all consideration in the Transaction together with 3.525 in cash per existing in-scope connections to the appropriate IP network and Reuters ordinary share, and The Thomson Corporation, a Canadian contemplates completion of substantially all existing connections at company which will be renamed Thomson Reuters Corporation.
the end of the second half of 2009 although a limited number of Those companies will operate as a unified group pursuant to countries will be completed beginning 2011.
Liquidated damages will contractual arrangements as well as provisions in their organisational be payable on sliding scale if a party fails to achieve its migration documents.
Under the DLC structure, shareholders of Thomson responsibilities.
The agreement contains minimum spend Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC will both have a stake commitments for each year following completion of the migration, in Thomson Reuters, with cash dividend, capital distribution and based on a declining percentage of the annualised charges at the voting rights that are comparable to the rights they would have if they completion of migration, then the minimum spend commitment, in were holding shares in one company carrying on the Thomson Reuters the previous year, and obliges BT to meet certain quality of service business.
The transaction is expected to complete on 17 April 2008, levels.
In addition, the agreement gives BT the opportunity to tender subject to shareholder consent, court approvals and other customary for any future telecommunication services needed by Reuters.
Fujitsu Master Services and Asset Transfer Agreements FXMarketSpace Reuters has entered into to a ten-year master services agreement and On 4 May 2006, Reuters and the CME entered into an agreement to associated contracts, dated 10 August 2007, with Fujitsu Services form FXMarketSpace, a 50 50 joint venture to create a centrallyLimited FS.
The agreement requires FS to provide on a global basis cleared, global foreign exchange trading system.
The joint venture Information technology services that were previously performed by was formed on 20 July 2006.
Under the joint venture agreement and Reuters in-house Information Services & Technology department and related documentation, Reuters and the CME have committed to its existing suppliers to all the users within the Reuters organisation invest up to $45 million each.
Reuters and the CME each have an world-wide.
Reuters has the right to terminate from 13 Feb 2009 with equal number of representatives on the board of directors, and board penalties resulting.
At the end of the contract Reuters can extend the actions generally require approval of at least one representative of agreement for a further year, subject to agreement of price for such each party.
The value of the agreement is approximately 530 million.
The parties agreed to share all profits derived from the joint venture, Savvis Network Services Agreements including those profits derived through the provision of services by Reuters is party to a three-year network services agreement, dated the parties to the joint venture, in proportion to their ownership 19 May 2005 and subsequently amended, with Savvis for internet interest.
This is achieved by the joint venture paying a preferential protocol network services, internet access, co-location and other dividend to the shareholder with the lesser profits subject to accrual services.
The agreement contains no minimum spend commitments in years during which the joint venture does not have sufficient profits, and obliges Savvis to meet certain quality of service levels.
and to the other shareholder making direct payment of its portion of any accrued amount where either party is exiting from the joint Sale of Factiva venture in certain circumstances.
On 18 October 2006, Reuters agreed to sell the majority of its 50% stake in Factiva to Dow Jones.
The sale occurred on 15 December The joint venture agreement contains limited transfer, put call, and 2006 and Reuters received cash consideration of $178 million.
Reuters termination provisions, including: termination rights if certain volume retained a minority preference share interest valued at $7 million in a and financial thresholds are not met in the fifth year after public Factiva entity.
In connection with the sale, Reuters entered into or launch of trading, subject to a call right of the non-terminating continued a number of commercial arrangements with Factiva and partner: put call rights by the non-defaulting party in the event of Dow Jones, and agreed not to compete with Factivas core business certain key defaults: and transfer rights, including the right to transfer for a two-year period and to continue exclusivity arrangements with an interest in or require the sale of the entire joint venture, beginning respect to certain Reuters content provided to Factiva.
only after ten years following public launch of trading, and subject to a right of first refusal by the other partner.
Pension plan deficit funding On 24 May 2006, Reuters announced that it had agreed a package of Subject to certain exceptions, the CME and Reuters each agreed not measures with the trustees of its two UK final salary pension plans that to operate, have any significant interest in, or provide certain key will substantially fund the pension deficit, enhance the security of the Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp118-129.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 126 126 Information for shareholders continued members existing benefits and reduce the risk associated with Image Group Limited trading as Action Images, a media company in managing the plans.
Under the agreement, in addition to its ordinary the sports pictures market, was acquired in September 2005. pension contributions, Reuters paid a cash sum of 187 million into EcoWin AB, a data provider specialising in global and macroeconomic the two pension funds in 2006, 4 million to a fund in 2007 and data, was acquired in November 2005. expects to pay a further 38 million in 2008.
Tremont Capital Managements TASS research hedge fund database Financing arrangements and the Hedgeworld Group were acquired in March 2005.
For a discussion of other material contracts, see Treasury policies on pages 39-41.
In June 2005, Reuters and NASDAQ announced the formation of a new joint venture, Independent Research Network Inc. to provide and Capital investments, expenditure and distribute equity research to the analyst community.
Reuters invested 1 million in the joint venture during 2005. divestments During the last three years, Reuters has made a number of Total capital expenditure including transaction fees for acquisitions of acquisitions and invested in new businesses.
The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and available-for-sale financial acquisitions, investments and disposals none of which exceeded assets during 2005 was 145 million.
50 million, save where otherwise stated were: Divestments Acquisitions 2007 2007 In June 2007, Reuters S. A. disposed of its holdings in Intralinks, Inc.
In July 2007, Reuters acquired Feri Fund Market Information Ltd FERI in connection with a recapitalization of Intralinks.
As a result of the FMI and its fund database subsidiary, FI Datenservice GmbH FID, disposal, Reuters received approximately $48 million, a portion of from Feri Rating and Research GmbH, for 12 million.
which is subject to escrow to support any indemnification claims that may be made.
In June 2007 Reuters acquired ClearForest Limited, a provider of text-driven business intelligence solutions, for $20 million, 2006 US$3 million of which is subject to escrow to support any Reuters disposed or closed a total of three units during 2006 for cash indemnification claims that may be made.
consideration of 80 million, net of transaction fees.
The principal disposal or closure was Factiva, a provider of a broad range of Total capital expenditure, including transaction fees, for acquisitions of archived news and business information in which Reuters 50% stake subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and available-for-sale financial was sold to joint venture partner Dow Jones for net cash assets during 2007 was 40 million.
2006 2005 Application Networks Inc. a leading risk management software Reuters disposed or closed a total of five units during 2005 for cash provider, was acquired in June 2006 for 22 million.
The Telerate consideration of 895 million, net of transaction fees.
The principal distribution business of Indian Quotation Systems Private Limited was disposals or closures were: acquired in June 2006.
Instinet Group, in which Reuters 62% stake was sold for 612 million in Telerate Italia SrL, a distributor of Telerates products in Italy, was December 2005.
Prior to the sale Reuters had sold Bridge Trading acquired in July 2006.
Company, a soft dollar execution broker, to Instinet for approximately 3.8 million shares of Instinet stock, valued at 12 million.
Instinet had In July 2006, Reuters and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange formed a also disposed of its wholly-owned subsidiary, LJR, in July 2005 for total new joint venture, FXMarketSpace Limited, to create a centrally consideration of 96 million and its 2% interest in Archipelago cleared, global foreign exchange trading system.
Reuters invested Holdings LLC in May 2005.
8 million in the joint venture during 2006 an additional 6 million was invested by each partner in early 2007.
Radianz, which was sold to BT for total consideration of 115 million in April 2005.
In October 2006, Reuters acquired a 26% interest in Times Global Broadcasting Company Limited for 11 million relating to the launch TSI, in which Reuters reduced its stake from 8.8% to below 1% by of a new Indian TV News Channel, TIMES NOW, in association with 31 December 2005 for total consideration of 63 million.
Deutsche Gesellschaft fr Ad-Hoc-Publizitat GmbH DGAP, a media In November 2006, Reuters acquired an interest in Pluck Corporation, company in which Reuters 33% stake was sold in November 2005. an early stage social media solutions company, for 4 million.
Total capital expenditure, including transaction fees, for acquisitions of Property, plant and equipment subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and available-for-sale financial The Groups principal facilities are in the Canary Wharf area of assets during 2006 was 68 million.
ft. office that is leased through 2020.
2005 Reuters other significant sites include: Telerate, a leading financial information provider in the fixed income sector, was acquired in June 2005 for 79 million in cash plus Reuters the US headquarters at 3 Times Square in New York City investment in Savvis convertible preference shares valued at 692,000 sq.
ft. are sub-let see below : 31 million.
Quick Telerate Corp, a distributor of Telerates products in Japan, was acquired in June 2005.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 127 Information for shareholders 127 continued technical centres in: Audit and non-audit fees The following table provides an analysis of fees payable to the o London 239,000 sq.
ft. leased through companys auditors in a format specified by US legislation.
Note 3 on 2009, with an option to extend indefinitely : page 62 shows the fees payable in a format specified by UK legislation.
ft. leased through 2024, with options to extend through 2039 : 2007 2006 m m o Geneva 290,625 sq.
ft. owned on property leased through 2095, Audit fees 4.4 3.9 which also includes the regional office for EMEA: Audit-related fees 0.2 0.4 Tax fees 0.7 1.0 o Singapore 180,000 sq.
ft. owned on property leased through 2020, All other fees 3.5 0.2 with options to extend through 2050, which also includes the Total fees 8.8 5.5 regional office and main data centre for Asia: Audit-related fees include accounting advice.
Tax fees include o Hauppauge, New York 50,000 sq.
ft. owned : and advisory services relating to tax planning and employee related issues and assistance with corporation and other tax returns.
Other fees o Nutley, New Jersey 40,000 sq.
ft. leased through 2021, with an include fees relating to the acquisition of Reuters by Thomson.
option to extend through 2036 : an office facility in Hauppauge 140,000 sq.
ft. owned used by development and internal support groups which is located next to Reuters Hauppauge data centre: four adjacent corporate office buildings located in St Louis County, Missouri total 211,000 sq.
ft., one of which is owned and three of which are leased.
Two are leased through 2014, with options to extend through 2034, and one through 2012, with an option to extend for one additional year: office space in Bangkok 178,000 sq.
ft. under leases expiring for most of the space in 2010: space in four office buildings in Bangalore, India total: 285,467 sq.
ft. under leases expiring in 2008 and 2012, with options to extend through, 2012 and 2015: a lease for a further 64,510 sq ft expiring in 2013 with a five year renewal option was signed in February 2008: and a development facility in Zhongguancun Software Park, Haidian District, Beijing, China 100,000 sq.
ft. under a lease through 2011, with options to extend through 2016: Reuters has also committed to an additional 33,000 sq.
The Reuters Building at 3 Times Square is owned, and was developed, by 3 Times Square Associates LLC, which is a joint venture between Reuters and Rudin Times Square Associates LLC, Reuters leases 692,000 sq.
ft. from the venture, of which 257,402 sq.
ft. is subleased to Instinet Group, which in turn has subleased approximately 180,000 sq.
ft. to third parties of which 30,598 sq ft is sub-sub-leased back to Reuters.
The principal part of Reuters lease will expire in 2021 subject to three ten-year extension periods.
See 3 Times Square Associates LLC in note 34 on page 100 for further information.
The computer equipment that Reuters uses to create, manage and deliver its products to customers across the world forms the bulk of its tangible fixed assets.
This equipment is distributed across global sites with greater concentration at the major global and regional technical centres.
As Reuters extends its use of hosting services and browser delivery for its products, the quantity of equipment located at customer sites is being reduced.
Legal proceedings Except as described above in note 35 on page 100, neither the Group, nor any of its directors, members of senior management or affiliates, is subject to any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have, or have had in the recent past, significant effects on the Groups financial performance or profitability.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 128 128 Information for shareholders continued Term used in annual report US equivalent or brief description Allotted Issued Associates Affiliates accounted for under the equity method Business division Industry segment Called up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid Capital allowances Tax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances 2006 Combined Code A set of corporate governance principles and detailed codes of practice for companies incorporated in the UK and listed on the Main Market of The London Stock Exchange Destination of revenue The geographical area to which goods or services are supplied Finance income Interest income Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Origin of revenue The geographical area from which goods or services are supplied to a third party or another geographical area Profit Income Profit for the year attributable to the Net income equity holders of the parent Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid Shares in issue Shares outstanding Share premium Additional paid-in capital or paid-in surplus not distributable Trade payables Accounts payable Trade receivables Accounts receivable Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp118-129.
qxd 18 3 08 18:54 Page 129 Information for shareholders 129 continued Corporate headquarters American Depositary Shares The Reuters Building Deutsche Bank ADR Service Center South Colonnade c o Mellon Investor Services Canary Wharf 480 Washington Boulevard London E14 5EP Jersey City Tel: 44 0 20 7250 1122 NJ 07310 Registered in England USA No: 3296375 Tel: 1 866 282 4011 Corporate website: about.
com Investor queries Electronic copies Chris Collett The Annual Report is available on the internet at Tel: 44 0 20 7542 2867 about.
com investors Fax: 44 0 20 7542 4661 Listings Email: chris.
com London Stock Exchange RTR.
O Media queries Options on ordinary shares are traded on Euronext Liffe.
Futures Victoria Brough contracts on ordinary shares are traded on the Euronext Liffe Universal Tel: 44 0 20 7542 8763 Stock Futures market.
The American Stock Exchange in New York lists Fax: 44 0 20 7542 4668 options on American Depositary Shares of Reuters.
com Corporate brokers Registrar Depositary Citigroup and JPMorgan Cazenove Limited For dividend queries, duplicate mailings and change of address Financial PR Ordinary shares Brunswick Group Limited Equiniti Limited Aspect House Trade marks Spencer Road Reuters, the sphere logo and Reuters product names referred to in Lancing this report are trade marks or registered trade marks of the Group West Sussex BN99 6DA, UK around the world.
Other trade marks of third parties are used in this Tel: 0870 600 3970 for callers within the UK report for the purpose of identification only.
Tel: 44 121 415 7047 for callers outside the UK Fax: 0870 600 3981 Website: shareview.
co. uk Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
