Definitions and exchange rates 132 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp132-135 5 3 08 23:47 Page 132 Definitions and exchange rates NON MINING DEFINITIONS Throughout this document, the collective expressions Rio Tinto, Limited directly or indirectly own investments, all of which are Rio Tinto Group and Group are used for convenience only.
separate and distinct legal entities.
Depending on the context in which they are used, they mean Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited and or one or more of the the meanings shown below: individual companies in which Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Adjusted earnings An additional measure of earnings reported by Rio Tinto with its UK GAAP results which excludes exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion is necessary to reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing American Depositary Shares ADS.
Australian GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in Australia.
AIFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in Australia.
Company Companies Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited, as the context so requires.
DLC merger Dual listed companies merger 1995.
EU IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
LBMA London Bullion Market Association.
New Zealand dollars New Zealand currency.
Abbreviates to, pence or p. Public shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto Limited Group and the holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto plc Group.
Abbreviates to R. Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited, and, where the context permits, its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto Limited Group Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Rio Tinto Limited share The ordinary shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto Limited RTL The DLC Dividend Share in Rio Tinto Limited.
DLC Dividend Share Rio Tinto Limited RTL The Special Voting Share in Rio Tinto Limited.
Special Voting Share Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto plc ADS An American Depositary Share representing the right to receive four Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares.
Rio Tinto plc Group Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares The ordinary shares of 10p each in Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
Rio Tinto plc shares Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares.
133 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Definitions and exchange rates U54670 pp132-135 5 3 08 23:47 Page 133 Rio Tinto plc RTP The DLC Dividend Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
DLC Dividend Share Rio Tinto plc RTP The Special Voting Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
Special Voting Share Share shares Rio Tinto Limited shares or Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares, as the context requires.
Sharing Agreement The agreement, dated 21 December 1995, as amended between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc relating to the regulation of the relationship between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc following the DLC merger.
UK GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the UK.
US dollars United States currency.
Abbreviates to dollars, $ or US$ and US cents or USc.
US GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
MINING AND TECHNICAL DEFINITIONS Alumina Aluminium oxide.
It is extracted from bauxite in a chemical refining process and is subsequently the principal raw material in the electro-chemical process by which aluminium is produced.
Anode and cathode copper At the final stage of the smelting of copper concentrates, the copper is cast into specially shaped slabs called anodes for subsequent refining to produce refined cathode copper.
Bauxite Mainly hydrated aluminium oxides AL O.
Principal ore of alumina, the raw material from 2 3 2 which aluminium is made.
Beneficiated bauxite Bauxite ore that has been treated to remove waste material to improve its physical or chemical characteristics.
Bioleaching The deliberate use of bacteria to speed the chemical release of metals from ores.
Block caving An underground bulk mining method.
It involves undercutting the orebody to induce ore fracture and collapse by gravity.
The broken ore is recovered through draw points below.
Borates A generic term for mineral compounds which contain boron and oxygen.
Cathode copper Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure copper or by electro-winning.
Classification Separating crushed and ground ore into portions of different size particles.
Coking coal By virtue of its carbonisation properties, it is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steel making process.
Also known as metallurgical coal.
Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such as flotation or gravity concentration, which involves separating ore minerals from unwanted waste rock.
Concentrates require subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the desired elements, usually metals.
Cutoff grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic to process.
It is used in the calculation of the quantity of ore present in a given deposit.
Dor A precious metal alloy which is produced by smelting.
Dor is an intermediate product which is subsequently refined to produce pure gold and silver.
DWT Dead weight tons is the combined weight in long tons 2,240 pounds weight of cargo, fuel and fresh water that a ship can carry.
Flotation A method of separating finely ground minerals using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the flotation process certain mineral particles are induced to float by becoming attached to bubbles of froth whereas others, usually unwanted, sink.
Definitions and exchange rates 134 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp132-135 5 3 08 23:47 Page 134 Grade The proportion of metal or mineral present in ore, or any other host material, expressed in this document as per cent, grams per tonne or ounces per ton.
Head grade The average grade of ore delivered to the mill.
Ilmenite Mineral composed of iron, titanium and oxygen.
Metallurgical coal By virtue of its carbonisation properties, it is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steel making process.
Also known as coking coal.
Mineral resource A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earth's crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral resources are sub-divided in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
Ore A rock from which a metal s or mineral s can be economically and legally extracted.
Ore milled The quantity of ore processed.
Ore hoisted The quantity of ore which is removed from an underground mine for processing.
Ore reserve The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the materials are mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
Pressure oxidation A method of treating sulphide ores.
In the case of refractory gold ores, the object is to oxidise the sulphides to sulphates and hence liberate the gold for subsequent cyanide leaching.
The technique involves reaction of the ore with sulphuric acid under pressure in the presence of oxygen gas.
Rock mined The quantity of ore and waste rock excavated from the mine.
In this document, the term is only applied to surface mining operations.
Rutile A mineral composed of titanium and oxygen TiO.
2 Steam coal Also referred to as steaming coal, thermal coal or energy coal.
It is used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement manufacture and various industrial applications.
Stripping ratio The tonnes of waste material which must be removed to allow the mining of one tonne of ore. Solvent extraction and Processes for extracting metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is leached electrowinning SX-EW into solution: the resulting solution is then purified in the solvent extraction process: the solution is then treated in an electro-chemical process electro-winning to recover cathode copper.
Tailing The rock wastes which are rejected from a concentrating process after the recoverable valuable minerals have been extracted.
Titanium dioxide feedstock A feedstock rich in titanium dioxide, produced, in Rio Tintos case, by smelting ores containing titanium minerals.
