129 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Shareholder information U54670 pp124-131 5 3 08 23:59 Page 129 held by Tinto Holdings Australia, the holder of its Special Voting not have the discretion to exempt a person from the operation of Share will carry one vote for each vote cast by the public these rules.
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel meeting.
Tinto Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to Holdings Australia and the holder of the Special Voting Share are cooperate to enforce the restrictions contained in their articles of required to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the votes cast association and constitution and also agree that no member of the for and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Group shall accept a third party offer for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
shares unless such acceptance is approved by a Joint Decision of the The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold public shareholders of both Companies.
any voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to Guarantees the Special Voting Share.
In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Capital distribution rights Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the contractual obligations If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing of the other Company and the obligations of other persons which Agreement provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets are guaranteed by the other Company, subject to certain limited of both Companies.
If the surplus assets available for distribution by exceptions.
Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make one Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders demand upon the guarantor thereunder without first having exceed the surplus assets available for distribution by the other recourse to the Company or persons whose obligations are being Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders, then guaranteed.
The obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Poll an equalising payment between the two Companies shall be made, Guarantee expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and to the extent permitted by applicable law, such that the amount under other limited circumstances, but only in respect of obligations available for distribution on each share held by public shareholders arising after such termination and, in the case of other limited of each Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective circumstances, the publication and expiry of due notice.
The is to ensure that the public shareholders of both Companies have shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provision of the equivalent rights to the assets of the combined Group on a per share Deed Poll Guarantees.
basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION the shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
General shareholder enquiries Computershare Investor Services PLC and Computershare Investor Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations Services Pty Limited are the share registrars for Rio Tinto plc and The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions Rio Tinto Limited, respectively.
All enquiries and correspondence and obligations on persons who control interests in public quoted concerning shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, companies in excess of defined thresholds that, under certain should be directed to the respective registrar.
Their addresses and circumstances, include obligations to make a public offer for all of telephone numbers are given under Useful addresses on page 136. the outstanding issued shares of the relevant company.
The Shareholders should notify Computershare promptly in writing of threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is any change of address.
30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law and Enquiries concerning Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares regulations is 20 per cent.
held in ADR form should be directed to JPMorgan Chase Bank NA As part of the DLC merger, the memorandum and articles of whose address and telephone number are also given under association of Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited Useful addresses.
were amended with the intention of extending these laws and Shareholders can obtain details about their own shareholding on regulations to the combined enterprise and, in particular, to ensure the internet.
Full details, including how to gain secure access to this that a person cannot exercise control over one Company without personalised enquiry facility, are available from Computershare.
having made offers to the public shareholders of both Companies.
com It is consistent with the creation of the single economic enterprise and the equal treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that these Consolidation of share certificates laws and regulations should operate in this way.
The articles of If a certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc is represented by association of Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited several individual share certificates, they can be replaced by one impose restrictions on any person who controls, directly or consolidated certificate.
There is no charge for this service.
Share indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
certificates should be sent to Computershare together with a letter of If, however, such a person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto instruction.
Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the restrictions will only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of the votes at that Share certificates name change Companys general meetings.
Share certificates in the name of The RTZ Corporation PLC remain If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject valid notwithstanding the name change to Rio Tinto plc in 1997. to certain limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, such persons may not attend or vote at general meetings Share warrants to bearer of the relevant Company, may not receive dividends or other All outstanding share warrants to bearer of Rio Tinto plc have been distributions from the relevant Company, and may be divested of converted into registered ordinary shares under the terms of a their interest by the directors of the relevant Company.
These Scheme of Arrangement sanctioned by the Court in 2001.
Holders of restrictions will continue to apply until such persons have either any outstanding share warrants to bearer should contact the made a public offer for all of the publicly held shares of the other company secretary of Rio Tinto plc for an application form in order Company, or have reduced their controlling interest below the to obtain their rights to registered ordinary shares.
thresholds specified, or have acquired through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the voting rights of all the shares held by the Low cost share dealing service public shareholders of each Company.
Stocktrade operates the Rio Tinto Low Cost Share Dealing Service These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the which provides a simple telephone facility for buying and selling publicly held shares of both Companies would be required to avoid Rio Tinto plc shares.
Basic commission is 0.5 per cent up to 10,000, the restrictions set out above, even if the interests which breach the reducing to 0.2 per cent thereafter, subject to a minimum thresholds are only held in one of the Companies.
The directors do commission of 15.
Further information is available from Shareholder information 130 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp124-131 5 3 08 23:59 Page 130 Stocktrade, a division of Brewin Dolphin Securities, which is Publications authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Their The following publications are on the website but hardcopies can be details are given under Useful addresses.
obtained free of charge on request from the company secretaries: Individual Savings Account ISA 2007 Annual report Stocktrade offers UK residents the opportunity to hold Rio Tinto plc 2007 Full financial statements shares in an ISA.
Existing PEPs or ISAs may also be transferred to 2007 Summary financial statements Stocktrade.
Further information can be obtained from Stocktrade 2007 Parent entity financial statements for Rio Tinto Limited whose details are given under Useful addresses.
The way we work Rio Tintos statement of business practice Review magazine Rio Tintos quarterly magazine for shareholders Corporate nominee service Computershare in conjunction with Rio Tinto plc, have introduced a Copies of the 2007 annual reports for the following listed Rio Tinto corporate nominee service for private individuals.
Further Group companies are also available on request: information can be obtained from Computershare.
Bougainville Copper Limited Publication of financial statements Coal & Allied Industries Limited Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual report and Full financial Energy Resources of Australia Limited statements and or the Annual report and Full financial statements in Palabora Mining Company Limited electronic rather than paper form should register their instruction on the Computershare website.
eTree Rio Tinto is a founding member of eTree, an environmental incentive scheme to link shareholders with reforestation projects in Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom when they register for electronic shareholder communications.
com Unsolicited mail and telephone calls Rio Tinto is aware that some shareholders have had occasion to complain that outside organisations have used information obtained from the Companies share registers for their own purposes.
Rio Tinto, like other companies, cannot by law refuse to supply such information provided that the organisation concerned pays the appropriate statutory fee.
Shareholders in the UK, who wish to reduce the amount of unsolicited mail and telephone calls they receive, should register with The Mailing Preference Service and The Telephone Preference Service whose details are set out on page 136.
Rio Tinto on the web Rio Tinto maintains a substantial amount of information on its website, including this and previous annual reports, many other publications and links to Group company websites.
It is the responsibility of the directors to ensure that processes are in place to maintain information and preserve the integrity of the Rio Tinto website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com General enquiries If you require general information about the Group please contact the Communications and External Relations department.
For all other enquiries please contact the relevant company secretary or share registrar.
