Rio Tinto 2007 Full financial statements Full financial Full financial statements statements Keeping the world moving Keeping the world moving Rio Tinto Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group headquartered in the UK, combining Rio Tinto plc, a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, uranium, gold, industrial minerals borax, titanium dioxide, salt, talc, and iron ore. Activities span the world but are strongly represented in Australia and North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe and Africa.
The Groups objective is to maximise its value and the long term return to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, cost competitive mines and businesses driven by the quality of each opportunity.
Wherever Rio Tinto operates, the health and safety of its employees, and a contribution to sustainable development are key values.
It works as closely as possible with host countries and communities, respecting their laws and customs and ensuring a fair share of benefits and opportunities.
Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners Printed in England by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is a CarbonNeutral company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001:2004.
100 per cent of the electricity used is generated from renewable sources.
100 per cent of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95 per cent of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99 per cent of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on ERA Silk, a paper made using 50 per cent recycled fibre and 50 per cent virgin fibre sourced from FSC certified forests.
Printed in Australia by Blue Star Print.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
1 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp0IFC-pp01 5 3 08 20:58 Page 1 2007 Full financial statements Contents Page Page Primary financial statements Additional disclosures Group income statement 2 Note 31 Primary segmental analysis by product group 32 Group cash flow statement 3 Note 32 Secondary segmental analysis geographical 34 Group balance sheet 4 Note 33 Financial risk management 35 Group statement of recognised income and expense SORIE 5 Note 34 Financial instruments 39 Reconciliation with Australian IFRS 5 Note 35 Contingent liabilities and commitments 44 Outline of dual listed companies structure and Note 36 Average number of employees 44 basis of financial statements 6 Note 37 Principal subsidiaries 45 Note 38 Principal jointly controlled entities 46 Notes to the 2007 financial statements Note 39 Principal associates 47 Note 1 Principal accounting policies 7 Note 40 Principal jointly controlled assets and other proportionally consolidated units 47 Group income statement Note 41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, Note 2 Reconciliation of net earnings to underlying earnings 15 associates and other interests in businesses 48 Note 3 Net operating costs 15 Note 42 Sales agreements after the balance sheet date 49 Note 4 Employment costs 16 Note 43 Directors and key management remuneration 50 Note 5 Impairment charges reversals 16 Note 44 Auditors remuneration 50 Note 6 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 16 Note 45 Related party transactions 51 Note 7 Interest receivable and payable 17 Note 46 Exchange rates in US$ 51 Note 8 Tax on profit 17 Note 47 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL 52 Note 9 Earnings per ordinary share 18 Note 48 Share based payments 52 Note 10 Dividends 19 Note 49 Post retirement benefits 56 Note 50 Rio Tinto Limited balance sheet 60 Group balance sheet Note 51 Rio Tinto Limited balance sheet disclosures 61 Note 11 Goodwill 19 Note 52 Rio Tinto Limited income statement 61 Note 12 Intangible assets 20 Note 53 Rio Tinto Limited cash flow statement 62 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 21 Note 14 Investments in equity accounted units 22 Rio Tinto plc 63 Note 15 Net debt of equity accounted units 22 Note 16 Inventories 22 Rio Tinto Financial information by business unit 66 Note 17 Trade and other receivables 23 Note 18 Deferred taxation 24 Australian Corporations Act Summary of ASIC relief 68 Note 19 Assets held for sale 25 Note 20 Other financial assets 25 Directors Declaration 69 Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 25 Note 22 Borrowings 26 Auditors Independence Declaration 69 Note 23 Capitalised finance leases 26 Note 24 Consolidated net debt 27 Independent auditors report to the members of Rio Tinto plc Note 25 Trade and other payables 27 and Rio Tinto Limited 70 Note 26 Other financial liabilities 27 Note 27 Provisions not including taxation 28 Financial Summary 1998 2007 71 Capital and reserves Summary financial data 72 Note 28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 29 Note 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 29 Note 30 Changes in equity, share premium and reserves 30 The Full financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report.
Group income statement 2 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp02-06 5 3 08 21:29 Page 2 Group income statement Years ended 31 December 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m Gross sales revenue including share of equity accounted units a 33,518 25,440 Consolidated sales revenue 29,700 22,465 Net operating costs excluding line items shown separately 3 20,750 13,650 Impairment charges reversals 5 58 396 Exploration and evaluation costs b 12 321 237 Operating profit 8,571 8,974 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 6 1,584 1,378 Profit before finance items and taxation 10,155 10,352 Finance items Net exchange gains on external net debt and intragroup balances 24 194 46 Net gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 57 35 Interest receivable and similar income 7 134 106 Interest payable and similar charges 7 538 160 Amortisation of discount 166 139 319 112 Profit before taxation 9,836 10,240 Taxation 8 2,090 2,373 Profit for the year 7,746 7,867 attributable to outside equity shareholders 434 429 attributable to equity shareholders of Rio Tinto Net earnings 7,312 7,438 Basic earnings per ordinary share 9 568.7c 557.8c Diluted earnings per ordinary share 9 566.3c 555.6c Dividends paid during the year US$m 10 1,507 2,573 Dividends per share: paid during the year regular dividends 10 116.0c 81.5c special dividend 10 110.0c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year final dividends 10 84.0c 64.0c a Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units of US$3,818 million 2006: US$2,975 million in addition to Consolidated sales revenue, which relates only to subsidiary companies and jointly controlled assets.
b Exploration and evaluation costs are stated net of gains on disposal of undeveloped properties totalling US$253 million 2006: US$46 million.
3 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Group cash flow statement U54979 pp02-06 5 3 08 21:29 Page 3 Group cash flow statement Years ended 31 December 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m Cash flow from consolidated operations a 10,805 9,196 Dividends from equity accounted units 1,764 1,727 Cash flow from operations 12,569 10,923 Net interest paid 489 128 Dividends paid to outside shareholders 168 193 Tax paid 3,421 2,799 Cash flow from operating activities 8,491 7,803 Cash used in investing activities Net acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 41 37,526 279 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 5,000 3,992 Sales of financial assets 49 293 Purchases of financial assets 273 167 Other investing cash flows 8 56 Cash used in investing activities 42,742 4,089 Cash flow before financing activities 34,251 3,714 Cash from used in financing activities Equity dividends paid to Rio Tinto shareholders 1,507 2,573 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders 1,624 2,370 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares in Rio Tinto 13 31 Additional borrowings 39,195 483 Repayment of borrowings 1,034 1,102 Other financing cash flows 54 142 Cash from used in financing activities 35,097 5,389 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 27 30 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 819 1,645 Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 722 2,367 Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 21 1,541 722 a Cash flow from consolidated operations Profit for the year 7,746 7,867 Adjustments for: Taxation 2,090 2,373 Finance items 319 112 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,584 1,378 Depreciation and amortisation 2,115 1,509 Impairment charges reversals 5 58 396 Provisions 27 308 60 Utilisation of provisions 27 162 194 Utilisation of provision for post retirement benefits 121 77 Change in inventories 130 454 Change in trade and other receivables 385 394 Change in trade and other payables 375 116 Other items 84 52 10,805 9,196 Group balance sheet 4 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp02-06 5 3 08 21:29 Page 4 Group balance sheet At 31 December 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m Non current assets Goodwill 11 15,497 841 Intangible assets 12 7,910 384 Property, plant and equipment 13 45,647 22,207 Investments in equity accounted units 14 7,038 2,235 Loans to equity accounted units 245 136 Inventories 16 178 99 Trade and other receivables 17 1,862 983 Deferred tax assets 18 585 225 Tax recoverable 6 135 Other financial assets 20 580 374 79,548 27,619 Current assets Inventories 16 5,382 2,540 Trade and other receivables 17 6,479 2,938 Assets held for sale 19 7,024 Loans to equity accounted units 117 15 Tax recoverable 250 79 Other financial assets 20 946 567 Cash and cash equivalents 21 1,645 736 21,843 6,875 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts repayable on demand 21 104 14 Borrowings 22 8,109 1,490 Trade and other payables 25 6,667 2,693 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 19 2,632 Other financial liabilities 26 878 193 Tax payable 494 1,024 Provisions 27 783 366 19,667 5,780 Net current assets 2,176 1,095 Non current liabilities Borrowings 22 38,614 2,007 Trade and other payables 25 503 362 Other financial liabilities 26 496 233 Tax payable 66 86 Deferred tax liabilities 18 6,486 2,339 Provision for post retirement benefits 27 3,195 770 Other provisions 27 6,040 3,532 55,400 9,329 Net assets 26,324 19,385 Capital and reserves Share capital Rio Tinto plc 28 172 172 Rio Tinto Limited excluding Rio Tinto plc interest 29 1,219 1,099 Share premium account 30 1,932 1,919 Other reserves 30 2,416 641 Retained earnings 30 19,033 14,401 Equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders 30 24,772 18,232 Attributable to outside equity shareholders 30 1,552 1,153 Total equity 26,324 19,385 The financial statements on pages 2 to 69 were approved by the directors on 5 March 2008 and signed on their behalf by Paul Skinner Tom Albanese Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Finance director 5 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Group statement of recognised income and expense SORIE U54979 pp02-06 5 3 08 21:29 Page 5 Group statement of recognised income and expense SORIE Years ended 31 December 2007 2006 Attributable Outside Total Attributable Outside Total to interests 2007 to interests 2006 shareholders shareholders of Rio Tinto of Rio Tinto US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency translation adjustment 1,886 135 2,021 824 42 866 Cash flow hedge fair value losses 201 223 424 178 200 378 Gains on available for sale securities 49 2 51 14 5 19 Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 89 76 165 63 74 137 Gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 16 16 4 4 Actuarial gains on post retirement benefit plans 135 6 141 338 35 373 Net tax recoverable recognised directly in equity 153 40 193 19 83 102 Net income recognised directly in equity 2,095 36 2,131 1,076 39 1,115 Profit after tax for the year 7,312 434 7,746 7,438 429 7,867 Total recognised income for the year 9,407 470 9,877 8,514 468 8,982 Reconciliation with Australian IFRS The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance transition to EU IFRS set out in IFRS 1.
The equivalent Australian with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS, which Standard, AASB 1, does not provide for the netting of goodwill differs in certain respects from the version of IFRS that is applicable against equity.
As a consequence, shareholders funds under in Australia Australian IFRS.
Australian IFRS include the residue of such goodwill, which Prior to 1 January 2004, the Groups financial statements were amounted to US$736 million at 31 December 2007 2006: US$740 prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
Under EU IFRS, goodwill on million.
acquisitions prior to 1998, which was eliminated directly against Save for the exception described above, the Groups financial equity in the Groups UK GAAP financial statements, has not been statements drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS are consistent with reinstated.
This was permitted under the rules governing the the requirements of Australian IFRS.
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements 6 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp02-06 5 3 08 21:29 Page 6 Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements The Rio Tinto Group Accounting standards These are the financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group the The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with Group, formed through the merger of economic interests merger International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and presented by both European Union EU IFRS.
The merger of economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as their consolidated accounts in Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited was accounted for as a merger accordance with both United Kingdom and Australian legislation under UK GAAP.
As permitted under the rules governing the and regulations.
transition to EU IFRS, which are set out in IFRS 1, the Group did not restate business combinations that occurred before the transition Merger terms date of 1 January 2004.
As a result, the DLC merger of economic On 21 December 1995, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, which interests described above continues to be accounted for as a merger are listed respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom under EU IFRS.
and Australia, entered into a dual listed companies DLC merger.
The main consequence of adopting merger rather than This was effected by contractual arrangements between the acquisition accounting is that the balance sheet of the merged companies and amendments to Rio Tinto plcs Memorandum and Group includes the assets and liabilities of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Articles of Association and Rio Tinto Limiteds constitution.
Tinto Limited at their carrying values prior to the merger, subject to As a result, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their adjustments to achieve uniformity of accounting policies, rather respective groups operate together as a single economic enterprise, than at their fair values at the date of the merger.
For accounting with neither assuming a dominant role.
In particular, the purposes Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single arrangements: public parent company with their respective public shareholders confer upon the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto being the shareholders in that single company.
As a result the Limited a common economic interest in both groups: amounts attributable to both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited provide for common boards of directors and a unified public shareholders are included in the amounts attributed to equity management structure: shareholders on the balance sheet, income statement and statement provide for equalised dividends and capital distributions: and of recognised income and expense.
provide for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to take key decisions, including the election of directors, through Australian Corporations Act an electoral procedure in which the public shareholders of the two The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with an order, companies effectively vote on a joint basis.
under section 340 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC on The merger involved no change in the legal ownership of any assets 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006.
The main of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor any change in the provisions of the order are that the financial statements are: ownership of any existing shares or securities of Rio Tinto plc or to be made out in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Rio Tinto Limited, nor the issue of any shares, securities or payment European Union EU IFRS : and by way of consideration, save for the issue by each company of one to include a reconciliation from EU IFRS to the Australian special voting share to a trustee company which provides the joint equivalents of IFRS see page 5. electoral procedure for public shareholders.
During 2002, each of the parent companies issued a DLC Dividend Share to facilitate the For further details of the ASIC Class Order relief see page 68. efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
7 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 7 Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements mandatory for year The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing 2008 the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 are IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum set out below.
funding requirements and their interaction mandatory for year The financial statements are prepared in accordance with 2008 International Financial Reporting Standards both as adopted by the IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised mandatory for EU EU IFRS and as issued by the International Accounting year 2009 Standards Board IFRS.
These standards are subject to IFRS 3 Amendment Business combinations mandatory for year Interpretations issued from time to time by the International 2009 Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
IFRS 2 Amendment Share based payment Vesting conditions and cancellations mandatory for year 2009 Basis of preparation The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 have The Group is evaluating the impact of the above pronouncements.
been prepared on the basis of all IFRSs and Interpretations adopted The effect of the revision to IAS 27 will depend on the extent of by the European Union that are mandatory for periods ending relevant future transactions.
Otherwise, the above changes are not 31 December 2007 and in accordance with applicable United expected to be material to the Groups earnings or to shareholders Kingdom law, applicable Australian law as amended by the funds.
Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated Certain prior year information has been reclassified to conform 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006 and Article 4 with the current year presentation.
Exploration and evaluation costs of the European Union IAS regulation.
charged against income were previously included in Cash used in The EU IFRS financial information has been drawn up on the investing activities but are now included within Cash flow from basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the operating activities.
As a result, exploration and evaluation costs financial statements for the year to 31 December 2006, except for expensed of US$273 million have been reclassified in the comparative the following: figures for full year 2006, within the Cash flow statement.
This standard requires disclosures that enable users of the financial statements to evaluate Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of the significance of the Groups financial instruments and the nature estimation uncertainty and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments.
The Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve new disclosures are primarily contained in note 33 to the financial the use of judgement and or estimation.
This standard does not have any impact on the estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the classification and valuation of the Groups financial instruments.
relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
This experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included amendment requires the Group to make new disclosures to enable in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and users of the financial statements to evaluate the Groups estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the Notes objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
The new to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
disclosures are included within note 33.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the the Group has adopted weighted average cost as its method of amounts recognised in the financial statements are: inventory valuation.
This method of inventory valuation is more Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests widely used by companies in the mining industry.
Previously, the of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed Group valued its inventories on the basis of First In, First Out companies DLC structure page 6.
The effect of this adjustment is not material to Group Estimation of asset lives, including those relating to newly earnings or to shareholders funds in the current or prior periods.
acquired companies note 1 e and i Therefore, prior period information has not been restated.
Determination of ore reserve estimates note 1 j The following interpretations and standards were adopted in Deferral of stripping costs note 1 h 2007: Recognition of deferred tax on mineral rights recognised in IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share based payments acquisitions note 1 m IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment Identification of functional currencies note 1 d IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing Costs The definition of Underlying earnings note 2 The effect of the above interpretations and standards is not material Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of to Group earnings or to shareholders funds in the current or prior causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and periods.
Therefore, prior period information has not been restated.
liabilities within the next financial year are: The Group has not applied the following pronouncements: those Revision of provisional fair values allocated on acquisition which are expected to be most relevant to the Group are IFRS 8 and note 1 b and note 41 IAS 27 revised.
Estimation of close down and restoration costs and the timing of IFRS 8 Operating Segments mandatory for year 2009.
The expenditure note 1 k and note 27 segmental information reported under the standard is that Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges and which the chief operating decision maker uses internally for reversals note 1 e and i, note 5 and note 11 evaluating the performance of operating segments and Estimation of environmental clean up costs and the timing of allocating resources to those segments.
expenditure note 1 k and note 27 IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 1 m and mandatory for year 2009.
The standard requires the effects of all note 18 d increases or decreases in the ownership of subsidiaries to be Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs note 49 recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
They will therefore no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The a Accounting convention standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
The financial information included in the financial statements for IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury share transactions the year ended 31 December 2007, and for the related comparative mandatory for year 2008 period, has been prepared under the historical cost convention as Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 8 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 8 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Acquisitions modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts and On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase method of financial assets and liabilities as set out in the notes below.
accounting is used whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities b Basis of consolidation identifiable net assets of the subsidiary on the basis of fair value at The financial statements consist of the consolidation of the accounts the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
their respective subsidiaries together the Group.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are brought Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities over which the Companies into the consolidated financial statements from the date on which have the power to govern the financial and operating policies in control, joint control or significant influence commences and taken order to obtain benefits from their activities.
Control is presumed to out of the financial statements from the date on which control, joint exist where the Companies own more than one half of the voting control or significant influence ceases.
rights which does not always equate to percentage ownership unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute Disposals control.
Control does not exist where joint venture partners hold Individual non-current assets or disposal groups ie groups of assets veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions.
In and liabilities to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently transaction, are classified as held for sale if the following criteria exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The consolidated are met: financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale expenses and cash flows of the Companies and their subsidiaries transaction rather than through continuing use, and after eliminating intercompany balances, transactions and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present unrealised gains.
For partly owned subsidiaries, the net assets and condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for net earnings attributable to outside shareholders are presented as such sales, and Amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders in the the sale is highly probable.
consolidated balance sheet and consolidated income statement.
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their Associates: An associate is an entity, that is neither a subsidiary carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are presented nor a joint venture, over whose operating and financial policies the separately on the face of the balance sheet with the related assets Group exercises significant influence.
Significant influence is and liabilities being presented as a single asset and a single liability presumed to exist where the Group has between 20 per cent and respectively.
Comparative balance sheet information is not restated.
50 per cent of the voting rights, but can also arise where the Group Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at fair value holds less than 20 per cent if it has the power to be actively involved determined at the acquisition date and no profits or losses are and influential in policy decisions affecting the entity.
The Groups recognised between acquisition date and disposal date.
share of the net assets, post tax results and reserves of associates are For a disposal group held for sale that continues to be carried at included in the financial statements using the equity accounting its carrying amount, the profit on disposal, calculated as net sales method.
This involves recording the investment initially at cost to proceeds less the carrying amount, is recognised in the income the Group, which therefore includes any goodwill on acquisition, statement in the period during which control passes to the buyer.
and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of Where the fair value less costs to sell of a disposal group is lower the investment to reflect the Groups share of the associates results than the carrying amount, the resulting charge is recognised in the less any impairment of goodwill and any other changes to the income statement in the period during which the disposal group is associates net assets such as dividends.
classified as held for sale.
On classification as held for sale, the Joint ventures: A joint venture is a contractual arrangement assets are no longer depreciated.
whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is If the disposal group or groups represent a separate major line of subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed business or geographical area of operations, or are part of a single sharing of control such that significant operating and financial coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing geographical area of operations, or are subsidiaries acquired control.
In some situations, joint control exists even though the exclusively with a view to resale, they are classified as discontinued Group has an ownership interest of more than 50 per cent because operations.
The net results attributable to such discontinued of the veto rights held by joint venture partners.
The Group has two operations are shown separately and comparative figures in the types of joint ventures: income and cash flow statements are restated.
Jointly controlled entities JCEs : A JCE is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other c Sales revenue entity in which each venturer has a long term interest.
JCEs are Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts, accounted for using the equity accounting method.
In addition, the with most sales being priced ex works, free on board f. o. b. or cost, carrying value will include any long term debt interests that in insurance and freight c. i. f..
Amounts billed to customers in respect substance form part of the Groups net investment.
of shipping and handling are classed as sales revenue where the Jointly controlled assets JCAs : A JCA is a joint venture in which Group is responsible for carriage, insurance and freight.
All shipping the venturers have joint control over the assets contributed to or and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as acquired for the purposes of the joint venture.
JCAs do not involve operating costs.
If the Group is acting solely as an agent, amounts the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
This billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs.
Revenue includes situations where the participants derive benefit from the from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted by joint activity through a share of the production, rather than by the customer.
receiving a share of the results of trading.
The Groups proportionate Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows royalties are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in of JCAs are incorporated into the Groups financial statements under substance a profit based tax, within taxes.
Gross sales revenue the appropriate headings.
disclosed as part of the income statement includes the Groups share The Group uses the term Equity accounted units to refer to of the sales revenue of equity accounted units.
To avoid duplication, associates and jointly controlled entities collectively.
this excludes sales by jointly controlled entities to third parties of Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of products purchased from the Group and excludes charges by jointly subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring their accounting controlled entities to the Group.
Co-product revenues are included policies into line with those used by the Group.
9 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 9 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The balance of the foreign currency translation reserve relating A large proportion of Group production is sold under medium to to an operation that is disposed of is transferred to the income long term contracts, but sales revenue is only recognised on statement at the time of the disposal.
individual sales when persuasive evidence exists that all of the The Group finances its operations primarily in US dollars but following criteria are met: part of the Groups US dollar debt is located in subsidiaries having the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have functional currencies other than the US dollar.
Except as noted been transferred to the buyer: above, exchange gains and losses relating to such US dollar debt are neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually charged or credited to the Groups income statement in the year in associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods which they arise.
This means that the impact of financing in US sold, has been retained: dollars on the Groups income statement is dependent on the the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: functional currency of the particular subsidiary where the debt is it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale located.
will flow to the Group: and Except as noted above, or in note p below relating to derivative the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be contracts, all exchange differences are charged or credited to the measured reliably.
income statement in the year in which they arise.
These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and customer.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the evaluation expenditure product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent destination port or the customers premises.
Goodwill is initially determined based on Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, sales the acquisition date.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the separately disclosed and goodwill on acquisitions of associates and Groups best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted JCEs is included within investments in equity accounted units.
non wholly owned subsidiaries, minority interests are initially Certain products are provisionally priced, ie the selling price is recorded based on the minorities proportion of the fair values for subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the In 1997 and previous years, goodwill was eliminated against market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy, contract.
as was then permitted under UK GAAP.
Such goodwill was not Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on reinstated under subsequent UK accounting standards or on estimates of the fair value of the consideration receivable based on transition to IFRS.
At each reporting date provisionally priced Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit or quotational period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the group of cash generating units expected to benefit from the related selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as business combination for the purposes of impairment testing.
copper, for which there exists an active and freely traded commodity Goodwill impairments cannot be reversed.
market such as the London Metals Exchange and the value of Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is are capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or traded on that market.
arises from contractual or legal rights, and the fair value can be The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is measured reliably on initial recognition.
recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost and finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic d Currency translation lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for jointly Intangible assets having indefinite lives and intangible assets that controlled entities and associates, is the currency of the primary are not yet ready for use are not amortised and are reviewed economic environment in which it operates.
For many entities, this annually for impairment.
is the currency of the country in which they operate.
Transactions Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to unless hedge accounting applies.
Monetary assets and liabilities generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year end this determination include the existence of contractual rights for exchange rates.
unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights The US dollar is the currency in which the Groups Financial without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite statements are presented, as it most reliably reflects the global periods into the future in view of the Groups future investment business performance of the Group as a whole.
The life cycles of the products and processes that depend On consolidation, income statement items are translated from on the asset are also considered.
the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis.
The following Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at year end useful lives have been determined for the classes of intangible exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the translation of the net assets.
assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar, Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: and any offsetting exchange differences on net debt hedging those 2 to 5 years net assets, are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years reserve via the statement of recognised income and expense.
Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between Patented and non patented technology: 10 to 20 years Group entities are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve Power contracts: 2 to 39 years where the intra group balance is, in substance, part of the Groups Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years net investment in the entity.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 10 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 10 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the f Exploration and evaluation purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping directly attributable to: costs.
In such cases, the intial stripping ie overburden and other researching and analysing existing exploration data: waste removal of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: production phase stripping relating to the combined operation.
examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or The Group defers stripping costs incurred subsequently, during compiling prefeasibility and feasibility studies.
the production stage of its operations, for those operations where this is the most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits related economic benefits and the effect is material.
This is generally with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a the case where there are fluctuations in stripping costs over the life detailed assessment of deposits that have been identified as having of the mine or pit, and the effect is material.
The amount of economic potential.
stripping costs deferred is based on the ratio Ratio obtained by Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
dividing the tonnage of waste mined either by the quantity of ore Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when mined or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore.
Stripping there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and costs incurred in the period are deferred to the extent that the hence it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to current period Ratio exceeds the life of mine or pit Ratio.
deferred costs are then charged against reported profits to the extent Such capitalised evaluation expenditure is reviewed for that, in subsequent periods, the current period Ratio falls short of impairment at each balance sheet date.
In the case of undeveloped the life of mine or pit Ratio.
The life of mine or pit Ratio is based properties, there may be only inferred resources to form a basis for on proved and probable reserves of the mine or pit.
The carrying values of these assets are The life of mine or pit waste-to-ore ratio is a function of the pit reviewed twice per annum by management and the results of these design s and therefore changes to that design will generally result in reviews are reported to the Audit committee.
The review is based on a changes to the Ratio.
Changes in other technical or economic status report regarding the Groups intentions for development of parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the the undeveloped property.
In some cases, the undeveloped life of mine or pit Ratio even if they do not affect the pit design s. properties are regarded as successors to ore bodies currently in Changes to the life of mine or pit Ratio are accounted for production.
It is intended that these will be developed and go into prospectively.
production when the current source of ore is exhausted.
In the production stage of some mines or pits, further Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on development of the mine or pit requires a phase of unusually high successful development of the area of interest or sale of the project.
overburden removal activity that is similar in nature to If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated preproduction mine development.
The costs of such unusually with the project net of any related impairment provisions are high overburden removal activity are deferred and charged written off.
against reported profits in subsequent periods on a units of production basis.
This accounting treatment is consistent with that g Property, plant and equipment for stripping costs incurred during the development phase of a mine The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, or pit, before production commences.
any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and If the Group were to expense production stage stripping costs as condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner incurred, there would be greater volatility in the year to year results intended by management and the estimated close down and from operations and excess stripping costs would be expensed at an restoration costs associated with the asset.
Once a mining project has earlier stage of a mines operation.
been established as commercially viable, expenditure other than that Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and on land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised under Mining leases within property, plant and equipment or in investments in properties and leases together with any amount transferred from equity accounted units, as appropriate.
These form part of the total Exploration and evaluation.
In open pit mining operations, it is investment in the relevant cash generating unit, which is reviewed necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred mining overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
stripping costs is included in net operating costs or in the Groups During the development of a mine or pit, before production share of the results of its equity accounted units, as appropriate.
commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction of the mine.
i Depreciation and impairment Costs associated with commissioning new assets, in the period Depreciation of non current assets before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the over the remaining life of the mine if shorter.
The major categories commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on production and or straight-line basis as follows: borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised until the point when substantially all the activities Units of production basis that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the are complete.
economic benefits from the asset are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production level.
Except as noted below, such assets are h Deferred stripping depreciated on a units of production basis.
As noted above, stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit before production commences are capitalised as part of Straight line basis the cost of constructing the mine or pit and subsequently Assets within operations for which production is not expected to amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a units of production fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a basis.
physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as straight line basis as follows: separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping Buildings 5 to 50 years costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each Plant and equipment 3 to 35 years 11 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 11 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued expected long term commodity prices, which for most commodities Power assets 25 to 100 years are derived from an analysis of the marginal costs of the producers Land Not depreciated of these commodities.
These assessments often differ from current price levels and are updated periodically.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if In some cases, prices applying to some part of the future sales appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Changes to the estimated volumes of a cash generating unit are predetermined by existing residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The effects of such contracts are taken into account applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally in forecasting future cash flows.
calculated using the quantity of material extracted from the mine in Cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts are based on the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material to be the current long term mine plan for the cash generating unit.
For extracted in current and future periods based on proved and impairment reviews, recent cost levels are considered, together with probable reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
expected changes in costs that are compatible with the current Such non reserve material may be included in depreciation condition of the business and which meet the requirements of IAS calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high 36.
IAS 36 includes a number of restrictions on the future cash flows degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
Development costs that can be recognised in value in use assessments in respect of that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and which only future restructurings and improvement related capital expenditure.
provide benefit over the life of those reserves, are depreciated over The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted the estimated life of that discrete section.
Development costs average cost of capital with appropriate adjustment for the risks incurred which benefit the entire ore body are depreciated over the associated with the relevant cash flows, to the extent that such risks estimated life of the ore body.
are not reflected in the forecast cash flows.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US Impairment of non current assets dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are functional currency.
The great majority of the Groups sales are reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the amount may not be recoverable.
In addition, an impairment loss is currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities recognised for any excess of carrying amount over the fair value less strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, costs to sell of a non-current asset or disposal group held for sale.
cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable When calculating value in use, IAS 36 requires that calculations amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being should be based on exchange rates current at the time of the the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant assessment.
cash generating unit and fair value less costs to sell.
Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to j Determination of ore reserve estimates sell is based on the best information available to reflect the amount The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on the Group could receive for the cash generating unit in an arms information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in length transaction.
The estimates used for impairment reviews are accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration based on detailed mine plans and operating plans, modified as Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of JORC code.
Reserves, and for certain mines, other mineral resources, Assets.
Future cash flows are based on estimates of: determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payment of future production levels: close down and restoration costs and clean up costs.
future commodity prices assuming the current market prices will In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral revert to the Groups assessment of the long term average price, resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree of generally over a period of three to five years : and confidence of economic extraction.
future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, close down, There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore restoration and environmental clean up.
reserves, and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
The cash flow forecasts are based on best estimates of expected Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, future revenues and costs.
These may include net cash flows production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proved or probable ore reserves.
Such non reserve material is k Provisions for close down and restoration and for included where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic environmental clean up costs extraction.
This expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling Close down and restoration costs include the dismantling and and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with demolition of infrastructure and the removal of residual materials existing reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation to achieve and remediation of disturbed areas.
Estimated close down and reserve status for such material has not yet been done because this restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the would involve incurring costs earlier than is required for the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, whether this efficient planning and operation of the mine.
occurs during the mine development or during the production phase, The expected future cash flows of cash generating units reflect based on the net present value of estimated future costs.
Provisions long term mine plans which are based on detailed research, analysis for close down and restoration costs do not include any additional and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance.
The investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The plan takes costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan.
The cost estimates account of all relevant characteristics of the ore body, including are updated annually during the life of the operation to reflect known waste to ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and developments, eg revisions to cost estimates and to the estimated lives metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries of operations, and are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
and capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The mine Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of plan is therefore the basis for forecasting production output in each mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure future year and the related production costs.
is incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
Although the ultimate Rio Tintos cash flow forecasts are based on assessments of cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 12 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 12 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Temporary differences are the difference between the carrying their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies value of an asset or liability and its tax base.
Full provision is made using current restoration standards and techniques.
for deferred taxation on all temporary differences existing at the The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in balance sheet date with certain limited exceptions.
The main establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the exceptions to this principle are as follows: income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of discount is shown as a financing cost, rather than as an operating subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities is provided cost.
for except where Rio Tinto is able to control the remittance of The initial closure provision together with other movements in profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the the provisions for close down and restoration costs, including those foreseeable future: resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
These costs are taxable profit and is not a business combination, such as on the then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
recognition of a provision for close down and restoration costs and Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the related asset or on the recognition of new finance leases.
the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made Furthermore, with the exception of the unwind of discount, for the estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at deferred tax is not recognised on subsequent changes in the each balance sheet date and the cost is charged to the income carrying value of such assets and liabilities, for example where the statement.
related assets are depreciated or finance leases are repaid: and Provision is made for the estimated present value of the costs of deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more environmental clean up obligations outstanding at the balance sheet likely than not that they will be recovered.
These costs are charged to the income statement.
Movements in assessed having regard to the reasons why the deferred tax asset the environmental clean up provisions are presented as an operating has arisen and projected future taxable profits for the relevant cost, except for the unwind of the discount which is shown as a entity or group of entities.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on costs become known, but can continue for many years depending on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques.
rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In As noted above, the ultimate cost of environmental remediation such cases, the provision for deferred tax is based on the difference is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors between the carrying value of the asset and its nil income tax base.
including changes to the relevant legal requirements, the emergence The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
The taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision expected timing of expenditure can also change, for example in relating to such mineral rights because it is expected that the response to changes in ore reserves or production rates.
As a result carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use and not there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close from the disposal of mineral rights.
Also, the Group is only entitled down and restoration and environmental clean up, which would to a deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mineral rights are affect future financial results.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in l Inventories equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are n Post employment benefits calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the current For defined benefit post employment plans, the difference between month together with those in opening inventory.
Cost for raw the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the materials and stores is purchase price and for partly processed and plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance saleable products is generally the cost of production.
Any asset recognised is restricted, if appropriate, to the purpose the costs of production include: present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, statement of recognised income and expense.
For this purpose, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in and actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because production overheads.
of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when the the income statement, including the current service cost, any past stockpiled ore will be processed it is expensed as incurred.
Where service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements.
The the future processing of this ore can be predicted with confidence, interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to the eg because it exceeds the mines cut off grade, it is valued at the income statement.
The amount charged to the income statement in lower of cost and net realisable value.
If the ore will not be processed respect of these plans is included within operating costs or in the within the 12 months after the balance sheet date it is included Groups share of the results of equity accounted units as appropriate.
Work in progress inventory includes ore The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension stockpiles and other partly processed material.
Quantities are plans are the long term rate of return on plan assets, the discount assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
rate and the mortality assumptions.
The long term rate of return on plan assets is used to calculate interest income on pension assets, m Taxation which is credited to the Groups income statement.
The discount rate Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income is used to determine the net present value of future liabilities.
Each for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or year, the unwinding of the discount on those liabilities is charged to substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
It includes the Groups income statement as the interest cost.
The mortality adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect assumption is used to project the future stream of benefit payments, of previous periods.
13 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 13 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Financial assets are derecognised when the investments mature which is then discounted to arrive at a net present value of or are sold, and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership liabilities.
The values attributed to plan liabilities are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
ii Financial liabilities The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans Borrowings and other financial liabilities are recognised initially at are charged to the income statement in the period to which the fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and are subsequently contributions relate.
stated at amortised initial book value.
Any difference between the amounts originally received net of transaction costs and the o Cash and cash equivalents redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at period to maturity using the effective interest method.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks iii Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting and short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible The Groups policy with regard to Financial risk management is set into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant out in note 33.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Commodity based contracts that meet the definition of a derivative in IAS 39 but are entered into in accordance with the p Financial instruments Groups expected purchase or sales requirements are recognised in earnings as described in note 1 c Sales revenue above.
i Financial assets All other derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available remeasured subject to IAS 39 at their fair value at each balance sheet for sale and held to maturity investments.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging Management determines the classification of financial assets at instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments fair a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions Derivatives are included in this category unless they are designated cash flow hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the purpose of selling in the short term.
income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed attributable to the hedged risk.
Where derivatives are held with in the income statement.
different counterparties to the underlying asset or liability or firm commitment, the fair values of the derivative assets and liabilities b Loans and receivables are shown separately in the balance sheet as there is no legal right Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with fixed or of offset.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in are classified as current assets or non current assets based on their the income statement within interest payable and similar charges.
Loans and receivables are classified as either trade and Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value other receivables or other financial assets in the balance sheet.
Loans of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within c Available-for-sale financial assets net operating costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled Available-for-sale financial assets are non derivatives that are either in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item designated as available for sale or not classified in any of the other affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the Group being hedged takes place.
The realised gain or loss relating to the intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the effective portion of forward foreign exchange or commodity balance sheet date.
contracts hedging sales is recognised in the income statement Changes in the fair value of financial assets denominated in a within sales revenue.
When the forecast transaction that is being currency other than the functional currency of the holder and hedged results in the recognition of a non financial asset the gains classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are Exchange differences on retranslation of the cost of security and any recognised subsequently in the income statement within net impairment charges are recognised in profit or loss, while other operating costs when the non financial asset is amortised.
changes in fair value are recognised in equity.
When financial assets classified as available-for-sale are sold, When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the included in the income statement within net operating costs.
forecasted transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are also or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time recognised in the income statement within interest receivable and remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is similar income when the Groups right to receive payments is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or Financial assets not carried at fair value through profit and loss loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the are initially recognised on the transaction date at fair value plus income statement.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 14 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp07-14 5 3 08 21:33 Page 14 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued q Share based payments Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: Any derivative The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are marked to over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability market at the balance sheet date.
In respect of currency swaps, the between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The grant gain or loss on the swap and the gain or loss on the financial asset or date fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the liability against which the swap forms an economic hedge are shown shares at the date of award reduced by a factor for anticipated in separate lines in the income statement the gain or loss on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are swap is shown within the line net gains on currency and interest subsequently remeasured at each accounting date to reflect the rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
In respect of number of awards expected to vest based on the current and other derivatives, the mark to market may give rise to charges or anticipated TSR performance.
If any awards are ultimately settled in credits to the income statement in periods before the transaction shares, the liability is transferred direct to equity as part of the against which the derivative is held as an economic hedge is consideration for the equity instruments issued.
These charges or credits would be recognised in the line The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by the net gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for issue of shares by the relevant parent company, by the purchase of hedge accounting if they relate to currency or interest rate swaps or shares on market or by the use of shares previously acquired as part in net operating costs if they relate to commodity derivatives.
The fair value of the share plans is recognised as Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
If the cost of shares acquired to related to their host contracts.
In some cases, the embedded satisfy the plans exceeds the expense charged, the excess is taken to derivatives may be designated as hedges and will be accounted for the appropriate reserve.
The fair value of the share plans is as described above.
determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg Total Shareholder iv Fair value Return.
The Group uses fair values provided by independent Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be actuaries calculated using a lattice based option valuation model.
exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and Non market based vesting conditions eg earnings per share willing parties.
Where relevant market prices are available, these targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards have been used to determine fair values.
In other cases, fair values likely to vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is have been calculated using quotations from independent financial reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No general market practice applicable to the instrument.
adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are i The fair values of cash, short term borrowings and loans to joint forfeited or not exercised.
ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values, as Further information about the treatment of individual share a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating based payment plans is provided in note 48. rates of interest.
ii The fair value of medium and long term borrowings is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using an appropriate market based yield curve.
The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
iii Derivative financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value based on published price quotations for the period for which a liquid active market exists.
Beyond this period, Rio Tintos own assumptions are used.
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 34.
Movements on the hedging reserve within shareholders equity are shown in note 30.
The full fair value of a derivative that qualifies for hedge accounting is classified as a non current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability, if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
v Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently reduced by any any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
Indicators of impairment would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, default in payment or a significant deterioration in credit worthiness.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement within net operating costs.
When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against net operating costs in the income statement.
vi Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
15 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 15 Pre-tax Taxation Outside Net Net 2 RECONCILIATION OF NET EARNINGS TO UNDERLYING EARNINGS interests amount amount 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Exclusions from Underlying earnings Profits less losses on disposal of interests in businesses a 2 1 1 3 Impairment charges reversals b note 5 58 18 73 113 44 Exchange differences and gains losses on derivatives: Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances c 201 37 8 156 14 Gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting d, e 52 19 1 34 30 Other exclusions f 308 99 209 37 Total excluded from Underlying earnings 111 60 80 131 100 Net earnings 9,836 2,090 434 7,312 7,438 Underlying earnings 9,947 2,150 354 7,443 7,338 Underlying earnings is an alternative measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
Underlying earnings and Net earnings both represent amounts attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
Items a to f below are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings.
a Gains and losses arising on the disposal of interests in businesses.
f Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of a similar type, b Charges and credits relating to impairment of non-current assets other than are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight undeveloped properties.
c Exchange gains and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances.
This Other charges excluded from Underlying earnings, in 2007, primarily resulted includes amounts relating to equity accounted units.
from the acquisition of Alcan.
These include the non recurring impact of d Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives which are ineligible US$213 million on pre-tax profit of revaluing inventories on acquisition based on for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts.
selling price, together with integration costs.
e The currency revaluation of embedded US dollar derivatives contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
3 NET OPERATING COSTS 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 6,096 3,207 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 114 27 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 13 2,001 1,482 Employment costs 4 3,827 2,459 Repairs and maintenance 1,393 1,257 Shipping costs 1,874 1,149 Other freight costs 509 333 Decrease increase in inventories 110 139 Royalties 1,093 1,004 Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities mainly for toll processing 1,362 1,196 Other external costs 2,346 1,936 Provisions 27 308 60 Research and development 69 15 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 78 69 Other operating income 274 267 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 20,750 13,650 a Total net operating costs includes the impact of Alcan for the period 24 October 2007 to 31 December 2007, totalling US$3,691 million.
b Information on auditors remuneration is included in note 44.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 16 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements 4 EMPLOYMENT COSTS 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m Employment costs Wages and salaries 3,618 2,337 Social security costs 106 83 Net post retirement cost a 49 240 189 Share option costs b 48 220 32 4,184 2,641 Less: charged within provisions 357 182 3 3,827 2,459 a Post retirement costs include the aggregate service and interest cost of providing b Further details of the Groups share options and other share based payment post retirement benefits under defined benefit plans, net of the related expected plans are given in note 48. return on plan assets.
Additional detail of the amount charged to the income c Employment costs includes the impact of Alcan for the period 24 October 2007 statement in respect of post retirement plans, and the treatment of actuarial to 31 December 2007, amounting to US$635 million.
gains and losses, is shown in note 49.
5 IMPAIRMENT CHARGES REVERSALS Pre-tax Taxation Outside Net Net interests amount amount 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash generating unit Argyle Diamonds a 466 138 328 289 Palabora b 272 99 73 100 2 Tarong coal mine c 166 32 134 152 Kennecott Utah Copper KUC d 381 Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC e 111 Other 30 11 19 5 58 18 73 113 44 a The impairment of Argyle in 2006 followed adverse changes in assumptions c During 2006, a continuation of operating losses triggered an assessment of the about future prices, capital and operating costs.
The value in use was assessed recoverable amount of Tarong, one of the Groups coal mines in Australia.
The by reference to cash flows forecast in real terms and discounted at a pre-tax rate value in use was based on cash flows forecast in real terms and discounted at a of 8 per cent.
The 2006 impairment provision included goodwill of US$223 million.
During 2007, the sale of Tarong was announced for an Further deterioration in value during the first half of 2007, relating mainly to amount that led to full reversal of the remainder of the provision recognised in large increases in the estimated capital cost of Argyles underground project, the previous year.
triggered another assessment of its recoverable amount.
Impairment of property, d In 2006, an increase in the Groups long term copper price assumption triggered plant and equipment was assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell.
an assessment of the recoverable amount of KUC.
The value in use was based on The determination of fair value less costs to sell was based on the estimated cash flows forecast in real terms and discounted at a pre-tax rate of 8 per cent.
amount that would be obtained from sale in an arms length transaction between This led to a full reversal of the remainder of the impairment provision knowledgeable and willing parties.
This estimate was derived from discounting recognised in 2002. projections of cash flows, using valuation assumptions that a buyer might be e In 2006, an increase in the Groups long term iron ore price assumption triggered expected to apply.
The US dollar amount of the impairment is US$14 million an assessment of the recoverable amount of IOC.
The value in use was based on higher than reported at the half year as a result of retranslation from Australian cash flows forecast in real terms and discounted at a pre-tax rate of 8 per cent.
dollars at the average exchange rate for the full year.
This led to a full reversal of the impairment provision recognised in 2002, which b An increase in the Groups long term copper price assumption triggered an had aligned the carrying value with the value negotiated between shareholders assessment of the recoverable amount of Palabora.
The value in use was based during that year as part of a financial restructuring exercise.
on cash flows forecast in real terms and discounted at a pre-tax rate of 12 per cent.
This led to a full reversal of the remainder of the impairment provision recognised in 2004.
6 SHARE OF PROFIT AFTER TAX OF EQUITY ACCOUNTED UNITS 2007 2006 US$m US$m Sales revenue a 3,818 2,975 Operating costs 1,261 771 Profit before finance items and taxation 2,557 2,204 Exchange gains on external net debt 7 3 Losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 5 Net interest payable 49 45 Amortisation of discount 9 14 Profit before taxation 2,501 2,148 Taxation 917 770 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 1,584 1,378 a The sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by jointly controlled entities to Rio Tinto Group subsidiaries.
17 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 17 7 INTEREST RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m Interest receivable and similar income from: Equity accounted units 28 27 Other investments a 101 69 129 96 Other interest receivable 5 10 Total interest receivable and similar income 134 106 Interest payable and similar charges b 660 220 Amounts capitalised 13 122 60 Total Interest payable and similar charges 538 160 a Interest income from other investments comprises US$80 million 2006: b Interest payable and similar charges comprises US$685 million 2006: US$58 million of interest income from bank deposits and US$21 million 2006: US$175 million of interest on bank loans and other borrowings and US$25 US$11 million from other financial assets.
million gain 2006: US$45 million loss from interest rate swaps.
8 TAX ON PROFIT 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m UK taxation Corporation tax at 30% Current 98 86 Deduct: relief for overseas taxes 98 72 Deferred 150 27 150 41 Australian taxation Corporation tax at 30% Current 1,396 1,517 Deferred 18 97 1,378 1,420 Other countries taxation Current 897 896 Deferred 35 16 862 912 Total taxation charge Current 2,293 2,427 Deferred 18 203 54 2,090 2,373 Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 18 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 18 8 TAX ON PROFIT continued 2007 2006 US$m US$m Prima facie tax reconciliation Profit before taxation 9,836 10,240 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,584 1,378 Parent companies and subsidiaries profit before tax 8,252 8,862 Prima facie tax payable at UK and Australian rate of 30% 2,476 2,659 Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings c 28 201 Other permanent differences Additional recognition of deferred tax assets a 335 Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 140 Adjustments to deferred tax liabilities following changes in tax rates b 392 46 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 271 242 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 173 187 Research, development and other investment allowances 81 21 Other 17 Total taxation charge 2,090 2,373 a The Additional recognition of deferred tax assets of US$335 million in 2006 c An analysis of the impact on the tax reconciliation of items excluded in arriving reflected improved prospects for future earnings from the Groups US operations.
at Underlying earnings is given below: b The Adjustments to deferred tax liabilities following changes in tax rates, totalling US$392 million 2006: US$46 million, result largely from a reduction in Canadian tax rates.
2007 2006 US$m US$m Impairment charges reversals 1 157 Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt, intragroup balances and derivatives not designated as hedges 19 55 Other exclusions 8 11 28 201 d This tax reconciliation relates to the parent companies, subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units.
The Groups share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of US$917 million 2006: US$770 million.
9 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Earnings Weighted Per share Earnings Weighted Per share US$m average amount US$m average amount number of cents number of cents shares shares millions millions Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto 7,312 1,285.8 568.7 7,438 1,333.4 557.8 Effect of dilutive securities share options c 5.5 5.4 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto 7,312 1,291.3 566.3 7,438 1,338.8 555.6 Underlying earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders a Basic 7,443 1,285.8 578.9 7,338 1,333.4 550.3 Diluted 7,443 1,291.3 576.4 7,338 1,338.8 548.1 a Underlying earnings per share is calculated from underlying earnings, detailed c For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive information on which is given in note 2. securities is added to the weighted average number of shares described in b b The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,000.1 million 2006: 1,047.7 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding not held by Rio Tinto plc of 285.7 million 2006: 285.7 million.
19 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 19 10 DIVIDENDS 2007 2006 US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year Final dividend paid b 646 442 Rio Tinto plc previous year Special dividend paid b 1,171 Rio Tinto plc Interim dividend paid b 518 417 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final dividend paid b 198 118 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Special dividend paid b 312 Rio Tinto Limited Interim dividend paid b 145 113 Dividends paid during the year 1,507 2,573 2007 2006 Number Number of shares of shares millions millions Rio Tinto plc previous year Final and Special b 1,007.3 1,063.9 Rio Tinto plc Interim b 996.7 1,042.7 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final and Special fully franked at 30% b 285.7 285.7 Rio Tinto Limited Interim fully franked at 30% b 285.7 285.7 a The dividends paid in 2007 are based on the following US cents per share register at the close of business on 22 February 2008 and to Rio Tinto Limited amounts: 2006 final 64.0 cents, 2007 interim 52.0 cents 2006 dividends paid: shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 February 2008.
d The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking b The number of shares on which the Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax during excludes those shares held by Rio Tinto plc, in order that the dividends shown 2008. represent those paid to public shareholders.
The number of shares on which e The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares.
retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked c In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 84 cents per out of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods share on 13 February 2008.
This is expected to result in payments of US$1.1 up to 31 December 2007 after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised billion Rio Tinto plc: US$0.8 billion, Rio Tinto Limited US$0.3 billion.
The on the 2007 final dividend declared, is US$7,759 million.
dividends will be paid on 11 April 2008 to Rio Tinto plc shareholders on the 11 GOODWILL 2007 2006 US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 841 1,020 Adjustment on currency translation 114 49 Additions 14,542 Disposals 5 Impairment charges 223 At 31 December 15,497 841 cost 15,758 1,077 accumulated impairment 261 236 At 1 January cost 1,034 accumulated impairment 14 Impairment Tests for Goodwill long term mine plans covering the expected life of each operation.
Goodwill, including that related to equity accounted units, is reviewed Therefore, the projections generally cover periods well in excess of five annually for impairment.
The amounts as at 31 December 2007 years.
disclosed above include goodwill of US$14,533 million 2006: nil Assumptions about selling prices, operating costs, exchange rates, relating to the 2007 acquisition of Alcan Inc. goodwill relating to and discount rates are particularly important in these valuations.
Australian Iron Ore of US$437 million 2006: US$394 million and Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in goodwill of US$231 million 2006: US$231 million relating to line with the policy in note 1 i.
Long term average selling prices are Rio Tinto Energy America RTEA.
Australian Iron Ore comprises the forecast taking account of estimates of the costs of producers of each business units located in the Pilbara region of Western Australia that commodity.
Forecasts of operating costs are based on detailed mine mine iron ore, namely Robe River and Hamersley Iron.
plans which take account of all relevant characteristics of the ore body.
The Group acquired Alcan Inc. on 23 October 2007.
The Discount rates represent an estimate of the rate the market would recoverable amount of its provisionally determined goodwill has been apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific to assessed by reference to fair value less cost to sell, as determined from the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been the observable purchase price paid by the Group.
The allocation of the adjusted.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is used as a start cost of the acquisition was based on the advice of expert valuers.
This point for determining the discount rate with appropriate adjustments allocation was determined over the months following the acquisition, for the risk profile of the individual cash generating unit.
Goodwill and no diminution in its value is considered to have occurred since relating to Australian Iron Ore has been reviewed applying a discount the date of acquisition.
The allocation of the goodwill to cash rate of 6.5 per cent to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
generating units, will be completed within one year of the acquisition.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill at RTEA has been assessed The recoverable amount of the goodwill relating to Australian Iron by reference to fair value less costs to sell.
The determination of fair Ore has been assessed by reference to value in use.
Valuations are value less costs to sell was based on the estimated amount that would be based on cash flow projections that incorporate best estimates of obtained from sale in an arms length transaction between selling prices, ore grades, production rates, future capital expenditure knowledgeable and willing parties.
This estimate was derived by and production costs over the life of each mine.
In line with normal discounting projections of cash flows, using valuation assumptions that practice in the mining industry, the cash flow projections are based on a buyer might be expected to apply.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 20 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 20 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Exploration Trademarks, Contract Other Total and patented and based intangible evaluation a non patented intangible assets technology assets b Year ended 31 December 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2007 196 188 384 Adjustment on currency translation 9 12 7 22 50 Acquisition of subsidiary note 41 9 579 6,867 12 7,467 Expenditure during year 194 209 403 Amortisation for the year 8 28 78 114 Impairment 21 21 Disposals, transfers and other movements 256 1 2 259 At 31 December 2007 152 583 6,845 330 7,910 cost 152 591 6,874 566 8,183 accumulated amortisation 8 29 236 273 Exploration Trademarks, Contract Other Total and patented and based intangible evaluation a non patented intangible assets technology assets b Year ended 31 December 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2006 113 107 220 Adjustment on currency translation 5 10 15 Expenditure during year 72 118 190 Amortisation for the year 27 27 Disposals, transfers and other movements 6 20 14 At 31 December 2006 196 188 384 cost 196 310 506 accumulated amortisation 122 122 At 1 January 2006 cost 113 327 440 accumulated amortisation 220 220 a Exploration and evaluation: useful life not determined until transferred to These water rights constitute the majority of the amounts in the column of the property, plant & equipment.
above table entitled Contract based intangible assets.
b The Group acquired Alcan Inc. on 23 October 2007.
Alcan Inc. benefits from The intangible assets with indefinite lives have been valued based on the advice certain intangible assets including power supply contracts, customer contracts of expert valuation consultants, and no diminution in their value is considered to and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency have occurred since the date of acquisition.
and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these c There are no intangible assets either pledged as security or held under rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cash expenditure in year net of proceeds on disposal of undeveloped properties a 576 345 Changes in accruals including non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped properties 61 36 Amount capitalised during year 194 72 Charge for year 321 237 a Exploration and evaluation costs are stated net of gains on disposal of undeveloped properties totalling US$253 million 2006:US$46 million.
21 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 21 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Mining Land Plant Capital Total properties and and works in and leases a buildings equipment progress Year ended 31 December 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2007 6,127 2,540 10,839 2,701 22,207 Adjustment on currency translation 511 261 1,163 266 2,201 Capitalisation of additional closure costs note 27 284 9 293 Interest capitalised b 91 31 122 Acquisition of subsidiary note 41 598 4,415 11,485 1,784 18,282 Other additions 207 169 1,754 2,462 4,592 Depreciation for the year a 496 191 1,314 2,001 Impairment charges reversals 203 11 297 189 84 Disposals 12 33 38 83 Transfers and other movements c 484 183 1,428 1,611 118 At 31 December 2007 7,500 6,989 25,705 5,453 45,647 cost 11,280 8,952 38,015 5,813 64,060 accumulated depreciation 3,780 1,963 12,310 360 18,413 Fixed assets held under finance leases d 30 42 72 Other fixed assets pledged as security e 31 1,792 1,823 Mining Land Plant Capital Total properties and and works in and leases a buildings equipment progress Year ended 31 December 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2006 5,224 2,019 8,678 1,699 17,620 Adjustment on currency translation 261 88 411 105 865 Capitalisation of additional closure costs note 27 619 619 Interest capitalised b 5 3 52 60 Other additions 436 194 986 2,278 3,894 Depreciation for the year a 432 159 891 1,482 Impairment charges reversals 166 90 752 2 674 Disposals 25 13 50 21 109 Transfers and other movements c 205 321 950 1,410 66 At 31 December 2006 6,127 2,540 10,839 2,701 22,207 cost 9,166 4,454 21,553 2,835 38,008 accumulated depreciation 3,039 1,914 10,714 134 15,801 At 1 January 2006 cost 7,686 3,824 19,382 1,838 32,730 accumulated depreciation 2,462 1,805 10,704 139 15,110 Fixed assets held under finance leases d 39 38 77 Other fixed assets pledged as security e 35 1,154 1,189 a Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of US$718 million 2006: e Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Fixed assets pledged as security US$778 million.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$34 million 2006: represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$291 million 2006: US$339 US$40 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
million of loans, which are included in note 22. b Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the f At 31 December 2007 the net balance sheet amount for land and buildings rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
includes freehold US$6,821 million 2006: US$2,445 million : long leasehold c Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories.
US$163 million 2006: US$92 million : and short leasehold US$5 million d The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 22 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 22 14 INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED UNITS 2007 2006 Summary balance sheet Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Non current assets c 9,462 3,654 Current assets 1,643 1,029 11,105 4,683 Rio Tintos share of liabilities Current liabilities 1,154 763 Non current liabilities 2,913 1,685 4,067 2,448 Rio Tintos share of net assets 7,038 2,235 a Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set c Investments in equity accounted units at 31 December 2007 include goodwill of out in notes 38 and 39.
US$2,822 million 2006: US$39 million, which primarily relates to Alcan Inc. and b At 31 December 2007, the quoted value of the Groups share in associates is based on a provisional allocation of the cost of the acquisition on 23 October having shares listed on recognised stock exchanges was US$410 million 2006: 2007.
15 NET DEBT OF EQUITY ACCOUNTED UNITS EXCLUDING AMOUNTS DUE TO RIO TINTO Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Rio Tinto percentage share of percentage share of net debt net debt 2007 2007 2006 2006 % US$m % US$m Jointly controlled entities Minera Escondida Limitada 30.0 285 30.0 300 Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. 20.0 205 Queensland Alumina Limited QAL 80.0 29 38.6 44 Halco Mining Inc. 45.0 39 Alcan Ningxia Aluminium Company Limited 50.0 39 Associates Tisand Pty Limited 49.0 100 49.0 100 Port Waratah Coal Services 27.6 150 27.6 122 Minera ao Rio do Norte S. A.
12.5 23 Other equity accounted units 157 107 713 459 a In accordance with IAS 28 and IAS 31, the Group includes its net investment in b Some of the debt of equity accounted units is subject to financial and general equity accounted units in its consolidated balance sheet.
This investment is net covenants.
of the Groups share of the net debt of such units, which is set out above.
c US$255 million of the debt shown above is with recourse to Rio Tinto.
16 INVENTORIES 2007 2006 US$m US$m Raw materials and purchased components 1,078 448 Consumable stores 1,054 581 Work in progress 1,727 459 Finished goods and goods for resale 1,701 1,151 5,560 2,639 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 5,382 2,540 Expected to be used after more than one year 178 99 5,560 2,639 23 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 23 17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Non current Current Non current Current 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 4,927 56 2,133 Provision for doubtful debts 70 20 6 Amounts due from equity accounted units 249 156 Other debtors 266 900 35 479 Pension surpluses note 49 705 31 329 31 Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities a 555 492 Other prepayments and accrued income 336 442 91 145 1,862 6,479 983 2,938 a Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to jointly controlled entities b There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to bearing.
Group operating costs as processing takes place.
c Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables of US$70 million 2006: As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables of US$364 million US$56 million were impaired.
The amount of impairment was 2006: US$46 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing US$70 million 2006: US$26 million.
The ageing of these of these receivables is as follows: receivables is greater than 90 days overdue.
2007 2006 US$m US$m less than 30 days overdue 270 31 between 30 and 60 days overdue 62 9 between 60 and 90 days overdue 29 2 greater than 90 days 3 4 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
history of default and other indicators of impairment.
The carrying amounts of the Groups trade receivables net of With respect to trade receivables that are neither impaired nor provisions for doubtful debts are denominated in the following past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the currencies: 2007 2006 US$m US$m United States dollar 3,329 1,713 Sterling 134 2 Australian dollar 90 101 Canadian dollar 13 43 South African rand 25 31 Euro 904 55 Japanese yen 97 118 New Zealand dollar 17 27 Other 248 73 Total 4,857 2,163 The provision for doubtful trade receivables increased by US$44 of Alcan Inc. and US$4 million from increases in provisions charged million in 2007, of which US$40 million was due to the acquisition within other external costs.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 24 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 24 18 DEFERRED TAXATION 2007 2006 US$m US$m At 1 January 2,114 2,142 Adjustment on currency translation 278 97 Deferred tax of acquired companies 3,954 Credited to the income statement 203 54 Credited to SORIE a 203 94 Other movements b 39 23 At 31 December 5,901 2,114 Comprising: deferred tax liabilities c 6,486 2,339 deferred tax assets c 585 225 Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet, as permitted by IAS12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
UK Australian Other 2007 2006 tax tax countries Total Total tax US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Accelerated capital allowances 96 1,986 6,479 8,561 3,181 Post retirement benefits 118 3 4 125 94 Unremitted earnings 330 330 226 Other temporary differences 3 275 318 596 121 217 2,264 7,131 9,612 3,622 Deferred tax assets arising from: Capital allowances 100 Provisions 112 542 1,141 1,795 735 Post retirement benefits 76 2 861 939 285 Tax losses 162 706 868 301 Other temporary differences 109 109 87 350 653 2,708 3,711 1,508 Credited charged to the income statement Decelerated accelerated capital allowances 9 165 266 92 280 Provisions 7 192 20 219 5 Post retirement benefits 1 1 59 59 16 Tax losses 148 43 105 280 Tax on unremitted earnings 34 34 2 Other temporary differences 5 10 115 120 63 150 18 35 203 54 a The amounts credited directly to the SORIE relate to tax relief on share options, d US$1,360 million 2006: US$763 million of potential deferred tax assets have not provisions for tax on exchange differences on intra group loans qualifying for been recognised as an asset in these accounts.
There is no time limit for the reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and recovery of these potential assets, the majority of which relate to capital losses, on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and post retirement recovery of which depends on realisation of capital gains in future years.
e Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas b Other movements include deferred tax recognised by subsidiary holding subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the companies that is presented in these accounts as part of the tax charge on the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the profits of the equity accounted unit to which it relates.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$1,921 million c The deferred tax liability of US$6,486 million 2006: US$2,339 million includes 2006: US$1,711 million would be payable.
US$6,238 million 2006: US$1,764 million due in more than one year.
The f There is a limited time period for the recovery of US$62 million 2006: nil deferred tax asset of US$585 million 2006: US$225 million includes US$240 of tax losses which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the accounts.
million 2006: US$139 million receivable in more than one year.
25 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 25 19 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Assets and liabilities held for sale comprise the Alcan Packaging Packaging business of Alcan.
As the Packaging group was acquired group and the Tarong Coal mine, which was in the Energy product with a view to resale, its results are excluded from the Group Income group.
In the announcement of Rio Tintos offer for Alcan on 12 July Statement.
The Tarong mine was sold on 31 January 2008 for an 2007, it was stated that Rio Tinto and Alcan had agreed to divest the amount in excess of its carrying value.
20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS Non current Current Non current Current 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 34 100 42 36 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges a 480 122 Derivatives related to net debt 39 3 352 US Treasury bonds 21 20 Equity shares and quoted funds 53 321 125 51 Other investments, including loans 472 184 Other liquid resources non cash equivalent 6 6 580 946 374 567 a Derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as hedges include amounts of US$117 million 2006: US$82 million which mature beyond one year.
21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 579 555 Short term bank deposits 1,066 181 1,645 736 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 104 14 Balance per Group cash flow statement 1,541 722 a Cash and cash equivalents include US$93 million 2006: US$55 million for which there are restrictions on remittances.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 26 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 26 22 BORROWINGS Non current Current Non current Current 2007 2007 2006 2006 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Borrowings at 31 December Syndicated bank loans a 33,263 4,466 Other bank loans 97 1,749 157 156 Commercial paper 644 Other loans Finance leases 23 104 19 96 25 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 2.625% 2008 d swapped 596 586 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2013 100 100 Colowyo Coal Company L. P. Bonds 9.56% 2011 32 8 40 7 Colowyo Coal Company L. P. Bonds 10.19% 2016 100 100 Alcan, Inc. Debentures 6.25% due 2008 203 Alcan, Inc. Debentures 6.45% due 2011 415 Alcan, Inc.
Global Notes 4.875% due 2012 d swapped 489 Alcan, Inc.
Global Notes 5.00% due 2015 d swapped 479 Alcan, Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2028 110 Alcan, Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2031 441 Alcan, Inc.
Global Notes 5.75% due 2035 280 European Medium Term Notes c 384 76 430 1,195 Other secured loans 346 27 241 7 Other unsecured loans 270 321 257 100 Total borrowings 38,614 8,109 2,007 1,490 a In support of its acquisition of Alcan Inc. the Group arranged for US$40 billion in term loans and revolving credit facilities, which were fully underwritten and subsequently syndicated the Syndicated bank loans.
The Syndicated bank loans are divided into four facilities, as follows: Facility A Facility B Facility C Facility D Facility amount US$ billions 15 10 5 10 Type Term Loan Revolving Credit Revolving Credit Term Loan Facility Facility Due October 2008 b October 2010 October 2012 October 2012 Repayment Bullet Bullet Bullet Bullet As at 31 December 2007, facilities A, B and D have been fully drawn, and The Groups EMTNs are swapped to US dollars.
The fair value of currency swaps US$2.14 billion remains undrawn on facility C. The amounts outstanding under at 31 December 2007 was a liability of US$7 million.
Details of the major these facilities are shown net of the unamortised costs of obtaining the facilities.
currency swaps are shown in note 34 d. In 2007, other EMTNs of US$31 million Facilities A and B are subject to mandatory prepayment to the extent of the net relate to Alcan Inc. proceeds from disposals of assets and from the raising of funds through capital d US$1.2 billion of these fixed rate borrowings shown is swapped to floating rates.
markets, under specific thresholds and conditions.
The fair value of the interest rate swap at 31 December 2007 was US$31 million.
b The Group has the option to extend final maturity on the outstanding balance of e The Groups borrowings of US$46.7 billion 2006: US$3.5 billion include some Facility A for an additional year.
US$4.7 billion 2006: US$0.7 billion which relates to borrowings of subsidiaries c Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2006: US$3 billion European Medium Term Note that are without recourse to the Group, some of which are subject to various EMTN programme for the issuance of debt, of which approximately financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers are in US$0.4 billion was drawn down at 31 December 2007 2006: US$1.6 billion.
23 CAPITALISED FINANCE LEASES 2007 2006 US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 129 141 Effect of discounting 6 20 123 121 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within one year 19 25 Between 1 year and 5 years 67 52 More than 5 years 37 44 123 121 27 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 27 24 CONSOLIDATED NET DEBT 2007 2006 Net debt Net debt US$m US$m Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt At 1 January 2,437 1,313 Adjustment on currency translation 223 56 Exchange gains credited to the income statement 136 38 Gains on derivatives related to net debt 11 44 Debt of acquired companies 5,465 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 37,332 1,146 Other movements 158 4 At 31 December 45,152 2,437 Reconciliation to balance sheet categories Borrowings note 22 46,723 3,497 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand note 21 104 14 Cash and cash equivalents note 21 1,645 736 Other liquid resources note 20 6 6 Derivatives related to net debt note 34 24 332 Balances per above 45,152 2,437 2007 2006 US$m US$m Exchange gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances Exchange gains on US dollar net debt 163 38 Exchange gains losses on intragroup balances 11 5 Exchange losses on loans from equity accounted units 2 Exchange gain on settlement of dividend 22 13 Credited to income statement 194 46 a Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 34 on Financial Instruments.
25 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Non current Current Non current Current 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 3,145 1,291 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 219 143 Other creditors a 176 575 190 212 Employee entitlements 915 187 Royalties and mining taxes 325 264 Accruals and deferred income 126 1,481 107 595 Government grants deferred 201 7 65 1 503 6,667 362 2,693 a Other creditors include deferred consideration of US$209 million 2006: US$179 b Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables million relating to certain assets acquired.
The deferred consideration is approximates to their carrying value.
included at its net present value.
The amortisation of the discount applied in establishing the net present value is treated as a finance cost.
All other accounts payable and accruals are non interest bearing.
26 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non current Current Non current Current 2007 2007 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 490 283 214 162 Derivatives related to net debt 69 19 4 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges 537 27 Other financial liabilities 49 496 878 233 193 a Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 34.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 28 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 28 27 PROVISIONS NOT INCLUDING TAXATION Pensions Other Close down Other 2007 2006 and post employee and Total Total retirement entitlements restoration healthcare environmental US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 770 393 3,359 146 4,668 4,186 Adjustment on currency translation 59 36 211 14 320 113 Amounts capitalised 293 293 619 Acquisition of subsidiary note 41 2,550 126 1,518 444 4,638 Charged credited to profit: new provisions 1 9 9 19 25 increases to existing provisions 102 259 127 10 498 277 unused amounts reversed 5 200 4 209 242 Amortisation of discount 1 164 1 166 137 Utilised in year 119 49 82 33 283 271 Transfer to liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 12 124 136 Liability incurred as a result of acquisition 189 189 Actuarial gains recognised in equity 87 87 245 Transfers and other movements 4 54 58 69 At 31 December 3,275 750 5,271 722 10,018 4,668 Balance sheet analysis: Current 80 304 215 184 783 366 Non current 3,195 446 5,056 538 9,235 4,302 Total 3,275 750 5,271 722 10,018 4,668 a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post includes amounts for the operation and maintenance of remediation facilities in retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of later years.
The provision for environmental clean up expenditure includes the future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 49. issue described in e below.
b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long e In 1995, Kennecott Utah Copper KUC agreed with the US Environmental service leave of US$107 million 2006: US$86 million, based on the relevant Protection Agency EPA and the State of Utah to complete certain source entitlements in certain Group operations.
It also includes the provisions relating control projects and perform specific environmental studies regarding to the Groups cash-settled share-based payment plans of US$219 million 2006: contamination of ground water in the vicinity of the Bingham Canyon mine.
A US$43 million, which are described in note 48. remedial investigation and feasibility study on the South Zone ground water c The Groups policy on close down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k. contamination, completed in March 1998, identified a range of alternative Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the measures to address this issue.
Additional studies were conducted to refine the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the workable alternatives.
A remedial design document was completed in 2002.
Remaining lives of mines and infrastructure range from 1 to joint proposal and related agreements with the State of Utah Natural Resource over 50 years with an average, weighted by closure provision, of around 19 years.
Damage Trustee, the State of Utah and the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses District were approved in 2004.
KUC entered into a formal agreement with the estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using EPA in 2007 on the remedial action.
The provision was reduced by US$101 current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$5,271 million million during 2007 2006: US$37 million following a reassessment of the 2006: US$3,359 million for close down and restoration costs and environmental expected cost of remediation to reflect recent experience.
The ultimate cost of clean up obligations, include estimates of the effect of future inflation and have remediation remains uncertain, being dependent on the responsiveness of the been adjusted to reflect risk.
These estimates have been discounted to their contamination to pumping and acid neutralisation.
present value at an average rate of approximately five per cent per annum, being f Other provisions deal with a variety of issues and include US$191 million relating an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Excluding the to the Rio Tinto Alcan Foundation commitment in Canada, involving payments of effects of future inflation, and before discounting, this provision is equivalent to C$200 million over a five year period.
some US$8.1 billion 2006: US$4.7 billion.
g Provisions for close down, restoration and environmental obligations increased by d Some US$214 million 2006: US$50 million of environmental clean up US$279 million in 2006 as the result of a reduction in the discount rate.
Of this expenditure is expected to take place within the next five years.
The remainder amount, US$221 million is included in Amounts capitalised.
29 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 29 28 SHARE CAPITAL RIO TINTO PLC 2007 2006 2007 2006 Number m Number m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 1,071.49 1,071.02 172 172 Ordinary shares issued a 0.31 1.27 Own shares purchased and cancelled b 0.80 Special Voting Share of 10p d 1 only 1 only DLC Dividend Share of 10p d 1 only 1 only At 31 December 1,071.80 1,071.49 172 172 shares repurchased and held in treasury b 74.55 47.82 shares held by public 997.25 1,023.67 Shares held by public At 1 January 1,023.67 1,068.42 Ordinary shares issued a 0.31 1.27 Own shares purchased and cancelled b 0.80 Shares reissued from treasury 0.97 1.12 Shares repurchased and held in treasury b 27.70 46.34 Shares held by public 997.25 1,023.67 Unissued share capital Ordinary shares of 10p each 349.43 349.74 51 51 Equalisation Share of 10p d 1 only 1 only Total authorised share capital 1,421.23 1,421.23 223 223 a 311,458 Ordinary shares were issued, and 969,435 Ordinary shares reissued from of 27.36 and cancelled.
The total consideration paid was US$1,648 million treasury during the year resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto 2006: US$2,394 million.
plc employee share based payment plans at contracted prices between 808.8p c The aggregate consideration received for shares issued during 2007 was and 2,799p 2006: 2,382,591 shares issued at prices between 808.8p and US$13 million 2006: US$31 million.
The aggregate consideration received for 1,925p.
treasury shares reissued was US$24 million 2006: US$24 million.
b At the 2007 annual general meeting, the shareholders renewed the general d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by authority for the Company to buy back up to ten per cent of its Ordinary shares shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following of 10p each for a further period of 12 months.
The share buyback programme the DLC merger.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is was suspended on 12 July 2007 at the time the Alcan offer was announced.
Rio required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Tinto is seeking renewal of this approval at its annual general meeting in 2008. Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within During the year to 31 December 2007, 27,700,000 shares were bought back and the DLC structure.
held in treasury 2006: 46,340,000 at an average buy back price of 30.05 per e Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is share 2006: 27.27.
No shares were cancelled during the year ended 31 given in note 48 on share based payments.
December 2007 2006: 800,000 shares bought back at an average buy back price 29 SHARE CAPITAL RIO TINTO LIMITED 2007 2006 2007 2006 Number m Number m US$m US$m Share capital account At 1 January 285.75 285.75 1,099 1,019 Adjustment on currency translation 120 80 Special Voting Share of 10p c 1 only 1 only DLC Dividend Share of 10p c 1 only 1 only At 31 December 285.75 285.75 1,219 1,099 Share capital held by Rio Tinto plc 171.07 171.07 Total share capital c 456.82 456.82 a In May 2006, shareholders authorised Rio Tinto Limited to buy back ordinary c The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shares during the following 12 months whether on market or via off-market buy shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following back tenders, but only to the extent that such purchases would not exceed the DLC merger.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is 28.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares during that 12 month period.
Rio Tinto required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Limited is also authorised to buy back Rio Tinto Limited shares held by Tinto Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within Holdings Australia Pty Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc.
share buyback programme was suspended on 12 July 2007 at the time the Alcan d Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2007 under various acquisition was announced.
Rio Tinto Limited is seeking renewal of these Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market approvals at its annual general meeting in 2008.
No shares were bought back purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
during the year to 31 December 2007 2006: nil.
e Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is b No new shares were issued during 2007 2006: nil.
given in note 48 on share based payments.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 30 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 30 30 CHANGES IN EQUITY, SHARE PREMIUM AND RESERVES Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006 Attributable Outside Total Attributable Outside Total to interests to interests shareholders shareholders of Rio Tinto of Rio Tinto Summary statement of changes in equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 18,232 1,153 19,385 14,948 791 15,739 Total recognised income for the year 9,407 470 9,877 8,514 468 8,982 Dividends note 10 1,507 164 1,671 2,573 193 2,766 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders: Under capital management programme a 1,348 1,348 2,658 2,658 To satisfy share options 64 64 49 49 Ordinary shares issued 13 13 31 31 Outside interests in acquired companies 55 55 Shares issued to outside interests 38 38 6969 Employee share options charged to income statement 39 39 23 23 Other movements 4 18 14 Closing balance 24,772 1,552 26,324 18,232 1,153 19,385 a The charge to equity for shares bought back in 2006 included US$288 million in respect of a commitment entered into before the financial year end to purchase, from a bank, Rio Tinto plc shares that the bank could buy in the market during the period up to the preliminary announcement of the Groups results.
The commitment was settled during 2007.
2007 2006 Total Total US$m US$m Share premium account At 1 January 1,919 1,888 Premium on issues of ordinary shares 13 31 At 31 December 1,932 1,919 Retained earnings At 1 January 14,401 11,893 Parent and subsidiaries profit for the year 7,058 7,440 Equity accounted units retained profit for the year 254 2 Actuarial gains 135 338 Dividends 1,507 2,573 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders under capital management programme 1,348 2,658 Employee share options charged to income statement 19 12 Tax recognised directly in statement of recognised income and expense 21 45 Other movements 4 At 31 December 19,033 14,401 31 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 31 30 CHANGES IN EQUITY, SHARE PREMIUM AND RESERVES continued 2007 2006 Total Total US$m US$m Hedging reserves b At 1 January 133 77 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses 197 178 Equity accounted units cash flow hedge fair value losses 4 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 89 63 Tax on the above 71 59 At 31 December 174 133 Available for sale revaluation reserves c At 1 January 31 20 Gains on available for sale securities 49 14 Gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 16 4 Tax on the above 7 1 At 31 December 57 31 Other reserves d At 1 January 8 42 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders to satisfy share options 64 49 Employee share options: value of services 20 11 Deferred tax on share options 55 4 At 31 December 19 8 Foreign currency translation reserve e At 1 January 735 9 Currency translation adjustments 1,796 748 Exchange losses 30 8 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 4 Tax on exchange adjustments 13 At 31 December 2,514 735 Total other reserves per balance sheet 2,416 641 a Retained profit and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising The estimated effect of unexercised options to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is from the Groups share of proportionally consolidated units.
b The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are e Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 p. foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation c The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses reserve, as described in note 1 d, net of translation adjustments relating to relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 p. Rio Tinto Limited share capital.
The cumulative differences relating to an d Other reserves record the cumulative amount recognised in respect of options investment would be transferred to the income statement if the investment granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited less, where were disposed of.
applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 32 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 32 31 PRIMARY SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY PRODUCT GROUP 2007 2006 2007 2006 % % US$m US$m Sales revenue Iron Ore 29.6 30.9 8,799 6,938 Energy 15.0 18.1 4,454 4,070 Aluminium 23.8 15.5 7,055 3,493 Copper 17.6 19.6 5,238 4,396 Diamonds and Industrial Minerals 12.8 14.9 3,787 3,339 Other 1.2 1.0 367 229 Consolidated sales revenue 100.0 100.0 29,700 22,465 Share of equity accounted units 3,818 2,975 Gross sales revenue 33,518 25,440 Consolidated profit before finance items and taxation Iron Ore c 47.6 42.9 4,083 3,847 Energy c 10.8 8.9 929 801 Aluminium c 9.5 11.9 813 1,069 Copper c 36.7 37.1 3,143 3,333 Diamonds and Industrial Minerals c 3.4 3.4 293 311 Exploration and evaluation 0.7 1.1 58 101 Other 8.7 3.1 748 286 Operating profit segment result 100.0 100.0 8,571 8,974 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units Copper 1,542 1,271 Other 42 107 Profit before finance items and taxation 10,155 10,352 Depreciation and amortisation excluding share of equity accounted units Iron Ore 25.8 25.6 546 387 Energy 15.8 19.6 335 296 Aluminium 21.5 9.5 455 143 Copper 17.6 19.5 372 295 Diamonds and Industrial Minerals 16.5 23.6 349 356 Exploration and evaluation 0.2 0.2 4 3 Other 2.6 2.0 54 29 Product group total 100.0 100.0 2,115 1,509 a The product groups shown above reflect the Groups management structure and measures.
The Alcan businesses are included within the Aluminium product are the Groups primary segments in accordance with IAS 14.
The analysis deals group except for Packaging which is classified as held for sale at the year end.
with: the sales revenue, profit before finance costs and taxation, and depreciation b As detailed below, the analysis of profit before finance costs and taxation and amortisation, for subsidiary companies and proportionally consolidated units.
includes the profit on disposal of interests in businesses including investments The amounts presented for each product group exclude equity accounted units, and impairment charges reversals which are excluded from Underlying but include the amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders.
groups are consistent with those identified in the financial information by c An analysis of impairment charges reversals reported in the operating income business unit data included on pages 66 and 67.
However, that information of each product group is shown below: includes the results of equity accounted units and presents different financial 2007 2006 Total Total US$m US$m Impairment charges reversals by product group Iron Ore 298 Energy 145 188 Aluminium 9 Copper 272 610 Diamonds and Industrial Minerals 466 324 58 396 33 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 31 PRIMARY SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY PRODUCT GROUP continued 2007 2006 2007 2006 % % US$m US$m Segment Assets subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units Iron Ore 16.4 33.8 13,634 10,151 Energy 6.7 16.5 5,588 4,965 Aluminium 61.6 12.9 51,192 3,863 Copper 6.0 16.0 5,012 4,814 Diamonds and Industrial Minerals 7.6 17.6 6,307 5,260 Other 1.7 3.2 1,353 959 Product group total 100.0 100.0 83,086 30,012 Equity accounted units a Copper 25.3 58.0 1,873 1,385 Aluminium 72.2 36.8 5,346 878 Other 2.5 5.2 181 123 Total 100.0 100.0 7,400 2,386 Assets held for sale 7,024 Deferred tax assets 585 225 Current tax recoverable 256 214 Pension surpluses 736 360 Derivative assets 653 555 Cash and liquid resources 1,651 742 Total assets 101,391 34,494 a The analysis of the Groups investment in equity accounted units includes loans to equity accounted units, which are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet.
2007 2006 2007 2006 % % US$m US$m Segment Liabilities subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units Iron Ore 16.9 21.1 2,358 1,467 Energy 10.5 21.3 1,462 1,480 Aluminium 46.2 10.7 6,450 745 Copper 10.1 23.8 1,406 1,653 Diamonds and Industrial Minerals 7.6 12.6 1,055 878 Other 8.7 10.5 1,231 730 Total 100.0 100.0 13,962 6,953 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2,632 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 46,827 3,511 Current tax payable 560 1,110 Deferred tax liabilities 6,486 2,339 Derivative liabilities 1,325 426 Provision for post retirement benefits 3,275 770 Total liabilities 75,067 15,109 2007 2006 2007 2006 % % US$m US$m Capital additions a Iron Ore 7.9 48.4 2,465 2,303 Energy 1.9 12.4 583 591 Aluminium 84.6 5.3 26,376 253 Copper 1.0 15.9 314 758 Diamonds and Industrial Minerals 3.3 14.4 1,027 688 Other 1.3 3.6 394 170 Total capital additions 100.0 100.0 31,159 4,763 Note Analysis of capital additions Property, plant & equipment cash expenditure 22,870 3,800 Capitalised closure costs and other provisions 13 293 619 Capitalised interest 13 122 60 Intangible assets cash expenditure 7,667 120 Exploration & evaluation capitalised 12 203 72 Finance leases taken out 2 Movement in payables for capital expenditure 4 90 Capital additions per above 31,159 4,763 a Capital additions represent the total cost incurred during the period to acquire of the acquired companies at the date of acquisition.
These figures exclude the non current assets shown above, measured on an accruals basis, in capital additions of equity accounted units.
Capital additions include the relevant non current assets Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 34 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 34 32 SECONDARY SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS GEOGRAPHICAL 2007 2006 2007 2006 By destination % % US$m US$m Gross sales revenue by destination North America a 22.6 21.9 7,582 5,575 Europe 19.8 17.2 6,641 4,378 Japan 16.8 19.6 5,633 4,986 China 18.0 16.0 6,021 4,062 Other Asia 12.2 13.5 4,105 3,438 Australia and New Zealand 5.6 5.8 1,892 1,477 Other 5.0 6.0 1,644 1,524 Total 100.0 100.0 33,518 25,440 Consolidated sales revenue by destination North America a 24.5 23.9 7,262 5,358 Europe 20.3 17.5 6,027 3,929 Japan 16.9 19.6 5,012 4,402 China 18.0 16.2 5,342 3,648 Other Asia 10.9 12.0 3,238 2,691 Australia and New Zealand 6.0 6.3 1,771 1,412 Other 3.4 4.5 1,048 1,025 Total 100.0 100.0 29,700 22,465 Gross sales revenue by country of origin North America a 29.8 29.6 9,992 7,529 Australia and New Zealand 45.5 49.9 15,243 12,703 South America 9.5 10.5 3,195 2,679 Africa 5.9 5.7 1,975 1,461 Indonesia 1.4 1.6 461 396 Europe and other countries 7.9 2.7 2,652 672 Total 100.0 100.0 33,518 25,440 Segment assets Capital additions 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets and capital additions by location excluding equity accounted units North America a 37,522 10,302 16,251 1,430 Australia and New Zealand 27,931 17,097 7,506 2,993 South America 589 151 272 19 Africa 2,142 1,168 501 204 Indonesia 669 605 76 49 Europe 14,069 855 6,509 68 Other countries 900 194 44 83,822 30,372 31,159 4,763 Investments in equity accounted units b North America a 1,033 408 Australia and New Zealand 2,501 937 South America 1,567 993 Other countries 2,299 48 7,400 2,386 Assets held for sale 7,024 Deferred tax assets 585 225 Current tax recoverable 256 214 Derivative assets 653 555 Cash and liquid resources 1,651 742 Total assets 101,391 34,494 a The United States of America and Canada have been combined to form the b This analysis of investments in equity accounted units represents the Groups North America Geographical segment, having regard to the similarity of share of net assets plus loans to equity accounted units, which are shown economic and political conditions in these countries.
separately on the face of the balance sheet.
35 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 35 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups policies with regard to financial risk management are The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the great majority clearly defined and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are part of the Groups long term strategy covering areas such as foreign influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Groups exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk mines and processing plants are located and also by those and liquidity risk and capital management.
currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services Generally, the Group only sells commodities it has produced but are determined.
The Australian and Canadian dollars and the Euro may purchase commodities to satisfy customer contracts from time are the most important currencies apart from the US dollar to time and to balance the loading on production facilities.
long term, natural hedges operate in a number of ways to help Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups protect and stabilise earnings and cash flow.
From 1 January 2008, affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are Rio Tinto Alcan has adopted the Rio Tinto Group policy on trading presented both internally and externally.
It is also the most and hedging.
appropriate currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and markets, although a portion of surplus cash may also be held in other which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
The currencies, most notably Australian dollars, Canadian dollars and relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most the Euro, in order to meet short term operational and capital of the countries in which the Group operates provides further commitments and, for the Australian dollar, dividend payments.
natural protection in the long term.
These natural hedges The Group finances its operations primarily in US dollars, either significantly reduce the necessity for using derivatives or other directly or using cross currency interest rate swaps.
A substantial forms of synthetic hedging.
Such hedging is therefore undertaken to part of the Groups US dollar debt is located in subsidiaries having a a strictly limited degree, as described below.
In addition, the Groups US dollar functional currency.
policy of borrowing at floating US dollar interest rates helps to Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities counteract the effect of economic and commodity price cycles.
including intragroup balances are not held in the functional Treasury operates as a service to the business of the currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting Rio Tinto Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and and type of transaction permitted are laid down by the Rio Tinto liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the board and are subject to rigorous internal controls.
Senior subsidiary that accounts for those assets and liabilities.
These management is advised of corporate debt and currency, commodity exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income and interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity framework.
under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances are instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and that it has exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through losses are included in Underlying earnings.
its investments in joint ventures and associates.
Derivatives are As noted above, Rio Tinto hedges interest rate and currency used to separate funding and cash management decisions from risk on most of its foreign currency borrowings by entering into currency exposure and interest rate management.
The Group uses cross currency interest rate swaps and or interest rate swaps interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps in conjunction when required.
These have the economic effect of converting fixed with longer term funds raised in the capital markets to achieve a rate foreign currency borrowings to floating rate US dollar predominantly floating rate obligation which is consistent with the borrowings.
See section B d of note 34 Financial Instruments Groups interest rate policy, primarily US dollar LIBOR.
for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.
i Foreign exchange risk After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all Rio Tintos shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are of the Groups net debt is either denominated in US dollars or in the influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic functional currency of the entity holding the debt.
The table below diversity of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
summarises the net debt by currency.
2007 2006 Net debt net funds by currency US$m US$m United States dollar 44,737 2,213 Australian dollar 256 291 South African rand 103 2 UK sterling 112 30 Euro 150 67 Canadian dollar 62 14 Other 62 42 Total 45,152 2,437 Currency hedging The Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging dividends.
There is a legacy of currency forward contracts used to of transactions would provide long term benefits to shareholders.
hedge operating cash flow exposures which was acquired with Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in Alcan and the North companies.
Refer to section B a to d of specific commercial circumstances and are subject to strict limits note 34 Financial Instruments for the currency forward and laid down by the Rio Tinto board, typically hedging of capital option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the expenditures and other significant financial items such as tax and Group at 31 December 2007.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 36 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 36 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Foreign exchange sensitivity: Risks associated with The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at exposure to financial instruments 31 December 2007, where balances are not denominated in the The sensitivities below derive from the estimated impact of a ten functional currency of the subsidiary.
A strengthening of the US per cent change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on dollar would result in exchange gains based on financial assets and the value of financial instruments.
The impact is expressed in terms financial liabilities held at 31 December 2007.
These balances will of the effect on net earnings, underlying earnings and equity, not remain constant throughout 2008, however, and therefore these assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
numbers should be used with care.
At 31 December 2007 Closing Effect on net Of which Impact directly on equity exchange earnings of amount of 10% change rate 10% change impacting in full year underlying closing rate earnings Functional currency US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar a 88 204 99 20 Canadian dollar 101 3 53 South African rand 15 14 12 4 Euro 147 33 14 149 New Zealand dollar 78 9 3 At 31 December 2006 Closing Effect on net Of which Impact directly on equity exchange earnings of amount of 10% change rate 10% change impacting in full year underlying closing rate earnings Functional currency US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar a 79 37 56 30 Canadian dollar 86 29 12 South African rand 14 6 5 New Zealand dollar 71 15 3 a The sensitivities show the net sensitivity of US$ exposures in A$ functional b The sensitivities indicate the effect of a ten per cent strengthening of the US currency companies, for example, and A$ exposures in US$ functional currency dollar against each currency.
ii Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial by the Rio Tinto board and to rigid internal controls.
Rio Tintos instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Rio Tintos interest commodity base and the Group does not generally believe rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating commodity price hedging would provide long term benefit to interest rates.
This approach is influenced by the historical shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with correlation between interest rates and commodity prices.
In some some of its customers or suppliers.
circumstances, an element of fixed rate funding may be considered Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under appropriate.
As noted above, Rio Tinto hedges interest rate and contract, often long term, at prices determined by reference to currency risk on most of its foreign currency borrowings by entering prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London into cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps in Metal Exchange LME and COMEX in New York, usually at the time order to convert fixed rate foreign currency borrowings to floating of delivery.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of rate US dollar borrowings.
See section B d of note 34 Financial supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the Instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an active market in relating to borrowings.
At 31 December 2007, US$4.9 billion 2006: which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and US$1.2 billion of the Groups debt was at fixed rates after taking sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment into account interest rate swaps and finance leases.
and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and A monthly Treasury report is provided to senior management demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource products which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency and interest including iron ore and coal are generally agreed annually or for rate risks and, where applicable, the offsetting derivatives.
See longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary section B d of note 34 Financial Instruments for the details by product.
of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.
Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are See note 22 Borrowings for the details of debt outstanding at provisionally priced, ie the selling price is subject to final 31 December 2007. adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 Based on net debt and other floating rate financial instruments days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the outstanding as at 31 December 2007, the effect on net earnings of a relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue on half percent movement in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all provisionally priced sales is recognised based on estimates of fair other variables held constant, is estimated to be US$158 million value of the consideration receivable based on forward market 2006: US$3 million.
These balances will not remain constant prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal is marked throughout 2008, however, and therefore these numbers should be to market based on the forward selling price for the period used with care.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper for which there iii Commodity price risk exists an active and freely traded commodity market such as the The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market London Metal Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
37 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 37 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is aluminium and option contracts embedded in electricity purchase recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
The impact is At the end of 2007, the Group had 270 million pounds of copper expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups net sales 2006: 324 million pounds that were provisionally priced at earnings for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
US$ 304 cents per pound 2006: US$287 cents per pound.
The final The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price price of these sales will be determined in 2008.
A ten per cent increases by ten per cent with all other variables held constant.
change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity sales would increase or reduce net earnings by US$58 million 2006: analysis below as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
contracts are to buy or sell non financial items that can be net Alcan is the counterparty to certain forward metal sales settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the contracts with Novelis, a company which was spun-off from Alcan purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non financial item in in early 2005.
Alcan has in substance fixed the LME price for a accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or portion of its future aluminium sales.
At 31 December 2007, these usage requirements.
contracts had a positive fair value of US$45 million.
These sensitivities should be used with care.
The relationship between currencies and commodity prices is a complex one and Commodity price sensitivity: Risks associated with derivatives changes in exchange rates can influence commodity prices and The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market vice versa.
price on the following commodity derivatives including those At 31 December 2007 Effect on Effect directly on underlying and equity attributable net earnings to Rio Tinto of 10% increase of 10% increase from year from year end price end price Products US$m US$m Copper 40 Coal 25 Aluminium 41 50 Total 41 115 At 31 December 2006 Effect on Effect directly on underlying and equity attributable net earnings to Rio Tinto of 10% increase of 10% increase from year from year end price end price Products US$m US$m Copper 49 Coal 20 Total 69 iv Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its 2006: 70 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 33 obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, customers 2006: 20 customers with balances greater than leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from US$20 million accounting for just over 48 per cent 2006: 34 per its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and cent of total amounts receivable.
A balance of approximately from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and US$254 million relates to one customer group.
financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is financial instruments.
the carrying value of each class of financial assets mentioned on page 39.
The Group does not hold collateral as security.
Credit risks related to receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Rio Tintos established policy, procedure and control relating to Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is customer credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a Board approved all customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved Where customers are rated by an independent credit rating counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits.
where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the Rio Tinto Board customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard.
on an annual basis, and may be updated throughout the year Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any subject to approval of the Rio Tinto Finance Committee.
The limits credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
High risk are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
credit or other forms of credit insurance.
No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the At 31 December 2007, the Group had approximately 140 possible non performance of the counterparties to financial customers 2006: 75 customers that owed the Group more than instruments.
US$5 million each and accounted for approximately 81 per cent Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 38 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 38 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued v Liquidity and Capital risk management The Groups total capital is defined as Rio Tintos shareholders 2006 and an initial US$2.5 billion share buyback programme funds plus amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders plus increased to US$5.5 billion to be completed over the remaining net debt, and amounted to US$71 billion at 31 December 2007 period to the end of 2007.
The programme was suspended on 31 December 2006: US$22 billion.
12 July 2007 at the time the Alcan offer was announced, by which The Groups over-riding objectives when managing capital are time US$3.9 billion had been returned under the US$7 billion to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maximise returns capital management programme, bringing the total cash returned to for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain shareholders under announced capital management programmes an optimal capital structure in order to reduce the cost of capital.
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through The Group maintains backup liquidity for its commercial paper cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc programmes and other debt maturing within 12 months by way of and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
bank standby credit facilities, of which US$3.7 billion was undrawn Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited continue to maintain solid as at 31 December 2007.
The Groups committed bank standby investment grade credit ratings from Moodys and Standard and credit facilities contain no financial undertakings relating to Poors, despite the credit rating downgrade announced on interest cover and are not affected to any material extent other completion of the Alcan acquisition.
These ratings continue to than an increase in interest margin by a reduction in the Groups provide access to global debt capital markets in significant depth.
Rio Tinto does not have a target debt equity ratio, but has a The main covenant in the Rio Tinto Group relates to a financial policy of maintaining a flexible financing structure so as to be able covenant over corporate debt drawn under the Syndicated to take advantage of new investment opportunities that may arise.
Acquisition Facility, for which a compliance certificate must be Following the acquisition of Alcan, the Group has publicly stated an produced attesting a certain ratio of Net Borrowings to EBITDA.
objective to reduce its debt from current levels through a targeted There are no covenants relating to corporate debt which are under asset divestment programme to a level consistent with a single-A negotiation at present.
This policy is balanced against the desire to ensure The Groups policy is to centralise debt and surplus cash efficiency in the debt equity structure of the Rio Tinto balance balances whenever possible.
sheet in the longer term through pro active capital management The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into programmes.
relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from On 2 February 2006 the Group announced a US$4 billion capital the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the management programme which was subsequently increased to amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted US$7 billion in October 2006.
The capital return was comprised of a cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the US$1.5 billion special dividend US$1.10 per share paid in April amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2007 Trade Borrowings Expected Derivatives Other Total and other before future interest related to financial financial payables swaps payments net debt liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Within 1 year, or on demand 5,303 8,263 2,310 5 810 16,691 Between 1 and 2 years 10,628 1,862 4 309 12,803 Between 2 and 3 years 10,441 1,322 6 222 11,991 Between 3 and 4 years 37 892 190 1,119 Between 4 and 5 years 13,298 768 187 14,253 After 5 years 4,352 2,084 174 6,610 Total 5,303 47,019 9,238 15 1,892 63,467 At 31 December 2006 Trade Borrowings Expected Derivatives Other Total and other before future interest related to financial financial payables swaps payments net debt liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Within 1 year, or on demand 2,233 1,504 148 3 320 4,208 Between 1 and 2 years 723 96 15 288 1,122 Between 2 and 3 years 107 71 2 148 328 Between 3 and 4 years 478 44 3 43 568 Between 4 and 5 years 68 39 31 138 After 5 years 631 42 68 741 Total 2,233 3,511 440 23 898 7,105 a Interest payments have been projected using interest rates applicable at b Much of the debt is subject to variable interest rates.
Future interest payments 31 December, including the impact of interest rate swap agreements, where are therefore subject to change in line with market rates.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had unutilised standby credit general corporate purposes.
US$1.6 billion is available to be drawn facilities totalling US$3.7 billion 2006: US$2.3 billion.
These under the US$2.3 billion provided under Bilateral facility facilities which have terms of between 4 and 5 years, are for backagreements, while the balance of US$2.1 billion is available under up support for the Groups commercial paper programmes and for the US$40 billion syndicated facility agreement.
39 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 39 34 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Except where stated, the information given below relates to the A Financial assets and liabilities by categories financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries B Derivative financial instruments and proportionally consolidated units, and excludes those of equity C Fair values accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: A FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY CATEGORIES Total Loans and Available Held at Other receivables for sale fair value financial At 31 December 2007 securities assets and liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial Assets Cash and cash equivalent assets note 21 1,645 1,645 Trade and other receivables note 17 a 6,272 6,272 US Treasury bonds note 20 21 21 Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 374 374 Other investments, including loans note 20 472 472 Other liquid resources note 20 6 6 Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges note 20 134 134 Currency and commodity contracts: not designated as hedges note 20 480 480 Derivatives related to net debt note 20 39 39 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity 746 746 Total financial assets 10,189 9,135 395 519 140 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables note 25 b 5,303 5,303 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts note 21 and 22 8,213 8,213 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 38,614 38,614 Deferred consideration note 25 209 209 Other financial liabilities note 26 1,374 1,374 Total financial liabilities 53,713 1,374 52,339 At 31 December 2006 Total Loans and Available Held at Other receivables for sale fair value financial securities assets and liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial Assets Cash and cash equivalent assets note 21 736 736 Trade and other receivables note 17 a 2,833 2,833 US Treasury bonds note 20 20 20 Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 176 176 Other investments, including loans note 20 184 184 Other liquid resources note 20 6 6 Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges note 20 78 78 Currency and commodity contracts: not designated as hedges note 20 122 122 Derivatives related to net debt note 20 355 355 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity 379 379 Total financial assets 4,889 4,132 196 477 84 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables note 25 b 2,233 2,233 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts note 21 and 22 1,504 1,504 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 2,007 2,007 Deferred consideration note 25 179 179 Other financial liabilities note 26 426 426 Total financial liabilities 6,349 426 5,923 a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to jointly accounted units, other creditors excluding deferred consideration shown controlled entities and other prepayments and accrued income.
b Trade and other payables includes trade creditors, amounts owed to equity Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 40 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements 34 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued B DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2007, are summarised below: a Forward contracts relating to operating transactions: designated as hedges Assets note 20 Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Buy Australian dollar: sell US dollar US$m US$m Less than 1 year 34 26 1 to 5 years 25 36 Total 59 62 Other currency forward contracts 2 Total currency forward contracts 61 62 The above currency forward contracts were acquired with companies purchased in 2000 and were entered into by those companies in order to reduce their exposure to the US dollar through forecast sales.
Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Aluminium forward contracts US$m US$m Less than 1 year 25 Total 25 Coal forward contracts Less than 1 year 30 4 1 to 5 years 8 Total 38 4 Total commodity forward contracts 63 4 Total assets related to forward contracts designated as hedges 124 66 The above aluminium forward contracts are net metal sales contracts which are primarily hedging cashflow exposures associated with underlying variable third party metal sales contracts.
These contracts reduce the Companys exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
Coal forward contracts have been entered into in order to reduce exposure to movements in the coal price.
Liabilities note 26 Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Copper forward contracts US$m US$m Less than 1 year 153 149 1 to 5 years 344 184 More than 5 years 34 18 Total 531 351 Coal API#2 forward contracts Less than 1 year 83 9 1 to 5 years 39 9 Total 122 18 Coal GC NewC forward contracts Less than 1 year 25 2 1 to 5 years 9 2 Total 34 4 Aluminium price exposures embedded in electricity purchase contracts 26 Other commodity forward contracts 3 3 Total liabilities related to forward contracts designated as hedges 716 376 The above copper forward contracts were entered into as a condition of the refinancing of Palabora in 2005, and result in a reduction in the Groups exposure to movements in the copper price.
Aluminium price exposures are embedded within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
41 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 41 34 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued b Options relating to operating transactions: designated as hedges Assets note 20 Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Bought A$ call options US$m US$m Less than 1 year 10 8 1 to 5 years 4 Total 10 12 The above currency option contracts were acquired with companies purchased in 2000 and were entered into by those companies in order to reduce their exposure to the US dollar through forecast sales.
Liabilities note 26 Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts US$m US$m Less than 1 year 7 1 to 5 years 50 Total 57 Embedded options exist within an electricity purchase contract for a smelter.
These derivatives reduce the Companys exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
A number of put and call options were combined to form synthetic forward contracts that were designated as hedges of variable priced aluminium sales.
Reconciliation to Balance Sheet categories for derivatives designated as hedges 2007 2006 US$m US$m non-current assets note 20 34 42 current assets note 20 100 36 current liabilities note 26 283 162 non-current liabilities note 26 490 214 Total derivatives designated as hedges, detailed above 639 298 The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies and the hedged commodity purchase or sales contracts are expected to occur in line with the maturity dates of the derivatives hedging these particular exposures.
Gains and losses recognised in equity will be recycled into the income statement in the period during which the hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Where the hedged transaction relates to capital expenditures, the gain or loss on the derivative will be recognised in the income statement within depreciation as the fixed asset is amortised.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity, net of tax and outside interests, for the year to 31 December 2007 amounted to losses of US$102 million including equity accounted units 2006: US$124 million and the amount reclassified from equity and included in the income statement for the period amounted to US$61 million 2006: US$68 million.
The ineffective portion recognised in the profit or loss that arises from cash flow hedges amounts to US$ 1 million 2006: nil.
c Forward and option contracts relating to operating transactions: not designated as hedges Assets Forward contracts Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Buy New Zealand dollar: sell US dollar US$m US$m Less than 1 year 40 32 1 to 5 years 63 75 Total 103 107 The above currency forward contracts relating to the New Zealand dollar were taken out to manage exposures impacting on operating costs.
Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Aluminium forward contracts US$m US$m Less than 1 year 225 1 to 5 years 17 Total 242 The above aluminium forward contracts acquired with Alcan were taken out to manage exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
These contracts are not designated as hedges as they are predominantly offset by other aluminium forward contracts.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 42 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 42 Total fair Total fair 34 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued value value 2007 2006 US$m US$m Buy EUR: sell USD Less than 1 year 7 Buy GBP: sell USD Less than 1 year 1 Total 8 Option contracts Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts US$m US$m Less than 1 year 11 1 to 5 years 56 More than 5 years 17 Total 84 Others: Embedded derivatives 13 10 Other commodity contracts 5 1 Other currency forward contracts and swaps 5 4 Other option contracts 20 Total assets relating to derivatives not designated as hedges note 20 480 122 The above aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts reduce exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
Liabilities Forward contracts Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Aluminium forward contracts US$m US$m Less than 1 year 212 1 to 5 years 16 Total 228 The above aluminium forward contracts were taken out to manage exposure to movements in the aluminum price.
Option contracts Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts US$m US$m Less than 1 year 39 1 to 5 years 161 More than 5 years 59 Total 259 Others: Other currency derivative contracts 5 Other embedded derivatives 35 26 Other commodity contracts 5 1 Other derivatives 5 Total liabilities relating to derivatives not designated as hedges note 26 537 27 The above aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts reduce exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
43 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 43 34 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued d Currency and interest contracts relating to borrowings Total fair Total fair value value 2007 2006 Assets US$m US$m Buy Euro: sell US dollars Less than 1 year 338 Buy Sterling: sell US dollars Less than 1 year 6 1 to 5 years 3 Liabilities Buy Japanese yen: sell US dollars Less than 1 year 1 3 Other currency swaps 6 Total currency swaps 7 344 designated as fair value hedges 7 341 not designated as hedges 3 Interest contracts relating to borrowings: assets 39 7 Interest contracts relating to borrowings: liabilities 8 19 Total derivatives related to net debt 24 332 Reconciliation to Balance Sheet categories for currency and interest derivatives 2007 2006 US$m US$m non-current assets note 20 3 current assets note 20 39 352 current liabilities note 26 9 4 non-current liabilities note 26 6 19 Total currency and interest rate contracts, detailed above 24 332 These currency contracts are used to fix the US dollar value of non US dollar denominated external debt.
The interest rate contracts are used to convert certain fixed rate obligations to a floating rate.
The ineffective portion recognised in the profit or loss that arises from fair value hedges amounts to US$1 million 2006: nil.
C FAIR VALUES The carrying values and the fair values of Rio Tintos financial controlled entities and associates approximate to their carrying instruments, other than trade and other receivables and payables, values, as a result of their short maturity or because they carry at 31 December are shown in the following table.
The fair values of floating rates of interest.
the Groups cash, short term borrowings and loans to jointly 2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m US$m US$m US$m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: US Treasury bonds note 20 21 21 20 20 Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 374 374 176 176 Other investments, including loans note 20 472 472 184 184 Cash and cash equivalent assets note 21 1,645 1,645 736 736 Other liquid resources note 20 66 66 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts notes 21 and 22 8,213 8,225 1,504 1,507 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 38,614 38,627 2,007 2,025 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity 746 746 379 379 Deferred consideration note 25 209 209 179 179 Other financial liabilities note 26 49 49 43,821 43,846 2,189 2,210 Derivatives: Forward contracts: designated as hedges section B a of note 34 592 592 310 310 Option contracts: designated as hedges section B b of note 34 47 47 12 12 Forward contracts and option contracts not designated as hedges section B c of note 34 57 57 95 95 Currency swaps hedging borrowings section B d of note 34 7 7 344 344 Interest rate swap agreements section B d of note 34 31 31 12 12 44,493 44,518 2,060 2,081 Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 44 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 44 35 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS 2007 2006 US$m US$m Capital commitments excluding those related to joint ventures and associates Contracted capital expenditure: property, plant and equipment 2,857 1,912 Other commitments 75 163 Capital commitments relating to joint ventures and associates a Capital commitments incurred by the Group 238 155 Capital commitments incurred jointly with other venturers Rio Tinto share 808 183 Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Within 1 year 283 62 Between 1 and 5 years 985 123 After 5 years 514 242 1,782 427 Unconditional purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under unconditional purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Within 1 year 1,525 903 Between 1 and 2 years 814 713 Between 2 and 3 years 757 498 Between 3 and 4 years 561 343 Between 4 and 5 years 518 317 After 5 years 3,096 826 7,271 3,600 Unconditional purchase obligations relate to commitments to make payments in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices.
The future payment commitments set out above have not been discounted and mainly relate to commitments under take or pay power and freight contracts.
They exclude unconditional purchase obligations of jointly controlled entities apart from those relating to the Groups tolling arrangements.
2007 2006 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities excluding those relating to joint ventures and associates Indemnities and other performance guarantees 235 79 Contingent liabilities relating to joint ventures and associates a Share of contingent liabilities of joint ventures 6 5 Incurred in relation to interests in joint ventures 435 372 Incurred in relation to other venturers contingent liabilities 63 45 a Amounts disclosed include those arising as a result of the Groups investments No material loss to the Group is expected to result from these claims.
in both jointly controlled assets and jointly controlled entities.
On 22 February 2008, Alcan Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries Alcan were b The disagreement with the Australian tax office relating to certain transactions served with a Statement of Objections by the European Commission alleging an undertaken in 1997 to acquire franking credits was settled on 14 June 2007, infringement of Article 82 EC Treaty in relation to the licensing of smelter cell resulting in an additional tax charge of US$46 million for the year to technology.
Alcan contests the allegation that its conduct has been 31 December 2007. anti-competitive and will continue to co-operate with the Commissions c There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group.
Temporary cent of employees of subsidiary companies.
Employee numbers for employees are included in employee numbers.
proportionally consolidated and equity accounted units are proportional to the c People employed by contractors are not included.
Average employee numbers include a part year effect for d Rio Tinto Alcans employees are shown on a pro rata basis.
companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
45 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 45 37 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES At 31 December 2007 Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities Class of Proportion Group shares held of class held interest %% Australia Argyle Diamond Mines Mining and processing of diamonds a 100 Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 75.71 75.71 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: Ordinary 100 100 primary aluminium smelting Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.40 68.40 Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Class A 68.39 68.39 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 Queensland Coal Pty Limited b Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Canada Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Series A & E 58.72 58.72 QIT-Fer et Titane Inc Titanium dioxide feedstock: high Common shares 100 100 purity iron and steel Class B preference shares 100 100 Alcan Inc. c Bauxite mining: alumina refining: Common shares 100 100 production of specialty alumina: aluminium smelting, manufacturing and recycling: engineered products: flexible and specialty packaging France Talc fide Luzenac S. A.
Mining, refining and marketing of talc E 15.25 100 100 Indonesia P. T. Kelian Equatorial Mining Gold mining now in close down phase Ordinary US$1 90 90 Namibia Rssing Uranium Limited d Uranium mining BN$1 71.16 68.58 } CN10c 70.59 Papua New Guinea Bougainville Copper Limited e Copper and gold mining Ordinary 1 Kina 53.58 53.58 South Africa Palabora Mining Company Limited Copper mining, smelting and refining R1 72.03 57.67 Richards Bay Iron and Titanium Titanium dioxide feedstock: high purity R1 50.5 50 Pty Limited iron United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation Copper and gold mining, Common US$0.01 100 100 including Kennecott Utah Copper, smelting and refining, land Kennecott Minerals, Kennecott Land development and exploration and Kennecott Exploration activities Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. Coal mining Common US$0.01 100 100 U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing Common US$1 100 100 of borates a This entity is unincorporated.
e The results of Bougainville Copper Limited are not consolidated.
See note 47. b Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that owns the assets of the f The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to Tarong mine and also owns the shares shown in note 40 of Hail Creek, Blair include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies Athol and Kestrel.
that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
c On 23 October 2007, the Rio Tinto Group acquired a controlling 79.42 per cent g The Groups principal subsidiaries are held by intermediate holding companies interest in the issued share capital of Alcan Inc.
The remaining 20.58 per cent and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
See note 41. h Companies operate mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated.
d The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited carries 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of Board control.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 46 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 46 38 PRINCIPAL JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES At 31 December 2007 Name and country of incorporation operation Principal activities Number of Class of Proportion Group shares held shares held of class held interest by the Group % % Australia Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Leichhardt Coal Pty.
Limited b Coal mining 20,115,000 Ordinary 44.7 44.7 Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 1,769,600 Ordinary 80.0 80.0 Chile Minera Escondida Limitada c Copper mining and refining 30 30 China Alcan Ningxia Aluminium Company Aluminium smelting, alloy 459,500,000 RBMY 50 50 Limited production, aluminium product manufacture New Zealand New Zealand Aluminum Smelters Aluminium smelting 24,998,400 Ordinary 79.36 79.36 Limited Norway Sor-Norge Aluminium A. S. Aluminium smelting 500,000 Ordinary 50 50 Oman Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting 37,500 OMR1 20 20 power generation United Kingdom Anglesey Aluminium Metal Limited Aluminium smelting Ordinary 1 51 51 Hydrogen Energy Alternative energy 125,000 Ordinary 1 50 50 United States of America Decker Coal mining d 50 Halco Mining Inc. e 4,500 Common 45 45 Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. f 100 Ordinary 50 50.3 } 1 Preferred 100 a The Group has joint control of the above operations which, except as disclosed in e Halco has a 51 per cent interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a Bauxite note d below, are independent legal entities.
It therefore includes them in its mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
accounts using the equity accounting technique.
f Pechiney Reynolds Quebec has a 50.1 per cent interest in Aluminerie fide b Leichhardt has a 31.4 per cent interest in the Blair Athol joint venture.
As a Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
result, the Group has a further beneficial interest of 14 per cent in addition to its g The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to direct interest of 57.2 per cent, which is owned via a subsidiary of Rio Tinto include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those entities that Limited.
The Blair Athol joint venture is disclosed as a jointly controlled asset in have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
note 40. h The Groups principal jointly controlled entities are held by intermediate holding c The year end of Minera Escondida is 30 June.
However, the amounts included in companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are based on accounts of i With the exception of e and f above, all jointly controlled entities operate Minera Escondida that are coterminous with those of the Group.
mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated.
The joint venture agreement creates an arrangement that is similar in form to a partnership, and it is therefore classified as a jointly controlled entity.
47 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 47 39 PRINCIPAL ASSOCIATES At 31 December 2007 Name and country of incorporation operation Principal activities Number of Class of Proportion Group shares held shares held of class held interest by the Group % % Brazil Minerao Rio do Norte SA a Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 12.0 } 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 Cameroon Compagnie Camerounaise fide Aluminium smelting 8,114,979,600 XAF 46.7 46.7 lAluminum Canada Ivanhoe Mines Ltd b Copper and gold mining 37,089,883 Common 9.95 9.95 South Africa Tisand Pty Limited Ilmenite, rutile and zircon 7,353,675 R1 49.0 50.0 mining United States of America Cortez c Gold mining d 40 a Minerao Rio do Norte SA is accounted for as an associated company because d This operation is unincorporated.
the Group has significant influence through representation on its Board of e The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and Directors.
not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
b Ivanhoe Mines Ltd is accounted for as an associated company because the group f The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to has significant influence through representation on its Board of Directors and include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those entities that participation in the technical committee that will be responsible for its Oyu Tolgoi have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
Rio Tinto has the ability to increase progressively its stake to 43 per cent g With the exception of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd, the core assets of which are located in over the next four years at predetermined prices, involving an additional Mongolia, all associates operate mainly in the countries in which they are investment of US$2 billion.
40 PRINCIPAL JOINTLY CONTROLLED ASSETS AND OTHER PROPORTIONALLY CONSOLIDATED UNITS At 31 December 2007 Name and country of operation Principal activities Group interest % Brazil Consrcio fide Alumnio Maranho Alumina production 10.0 Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 Bengalla Coal mining 30.3 Blair Athol Coal b Coal mining 71.2 Hail Creek Coal mining 82 Kestrel Coal mining 80 Mount Thorley Coal mining 60.6 Warkworth Coal mining 42.1 Northparkes Mine Copper gold mining and processing 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Robe River Iron Associates Iron ore mining 53 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 HIsmelt Iron technology 60 Canada Diavik Mining and processing of diamonds 60 Indonesia Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 United States of America Greens Creek c Silver, gold, zinc and lead mining 70.3 a The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to additional 14 per cent interest through its investment in Leichhardt Coal Pty include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those Limited, which is disclosed as a jointly controlled entity in note 38. proportionally consolidated units that have a more significant impact on the c See footnote b of note 42. profit or operating assets of the Group.
d The Groups proportionally consolidated units are held by intermediate holding b The Group has a direct interest of 57.2 per cent in Blair Athol Coal, and an companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 48 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 48 41 PURCHASES AND SALES OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, ASSOCIATES AND OTHER INTERESTS IN BUSINESSES 2007 Acquisitions Alcan acquisition On 23 October 2007, the Rio Tinto Group acquired a controlling The Group has decided to dispose of Alcan Packaging, which is 79.42 per cent interest in the issued share capital of Alcan Inc.
The presented in the balance sheet in the lines: Assets held for sale and remaining 20.58 per cent was acquired by 14 November 2007.
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale.
Therefore, the income The total purchase price to acquire Alcan Inc amounted to and cash flow statements for the year exclude amounts relating to US$38.7 billion.
Alcan Inc. is the parent company of an international group of The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Alcan companies involved in bauxite mining, alumina refining, aluminium Inc. as at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated as smelting, engineered products, flexible and specialty packaging, as follows: well as related research and development.
IFRS Fair value Provisional carrying adjustments fair value values in to Group US$m US$m US$m Intangible assets 804 6,663 7,467 Property, plant & equipment 11,579 6,703 18,282 Equity method investments 1,415 2,770 4,185 Inventories 2,643 213 2,856 Assets held for sale 6,984 6,984 Cash 991 991 Deferred tax assets 223 5 228 Other assets 4,353 231 4,584 Loans and borrowings 5,580 115 5,465 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2,642 2,642 Deferred tax liabilities 461 3,721 4,182 Provisions for liabilities and charges 4,581 57 4,638 Other liabilities 4,265 211 4,476 Minority interest 55 55 Goodwill 2,055 12,478 14,533 Net attributable assets including goodwill 13,463 25,189 38,652 Total consideration: Cost of shares 37,996 Acquisition costs 74 Liabilities assumed 132 Loans to acquired subsidiary 450 Total consideration Alcan 38,652 Other subsidiaries and equity accounted units acquired 54 Total consideration 38,706 Cash outflow on acquisitions: Total consideration 38,706 Net cash of acquired companies 991 Liabilities assumed 132 Other including disposal proceeds of US$13 million 57 Net acquisitions per cash flow statement 37,526 The future economic benefits represented by the goodwill include amounts include the results of the acquired group, recognising the those associated with synergies, future development and amortisation of the fair values attributed to the assets acquired and expansion projects and the assembled workforce.
As a result of the the interest expense on debt incurred as a result of the acquisition.
size of the acquisition and complexity of the valuation process, the The proforma interest charge for the whole of 2007 on the above fair values are provisional.
These will be subject to further acquisition debt has been based on the one month LIBOR rate as at review during the 12 months from the acquisition date.
The pro forma amounts do not For the period since acquisition, sales revenue of US$3,544 take account of synergies anticipated as a result of the acquisition: million excluding equity accounted units and profit after tax of but include non recurring costs borne by Alcan Inc. relating to the US$293 million attributable to continuing operations are included acquisition and suffer the costs of financing assets held for sale.
in the consolidated income statement.
The pro forma information does not necessarily reflect the actual The following pro forma summary presents the Group as if results that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily indicative of Alcan Inc. had been acquired on 1 January 2007.
The pro forma future results of operations of the combined companies.
2007 US$m Consolidated sales revenue 45,590 Profit for the year including amounts attributable to outside equity shareholders 7,727 49 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 41 PURCHASES AND SALES OF SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, ASSOCIATES AND OTHER INTERESTS IN BUSINESSES continued 2006 Acquisitions Name of operation Location Principal activities Ownership Date of acquired acquisition % Associates Ivanhoe Mines Canada Copper and gold mining 9.95 18 October 2006 Proportionally consolidated units Hope Downs Joint Venture Australia Iron ore mining 50 16 March 2006 2006 Disposals Name of operation Location Principal activities Ownership Date of disposed disposal % Jointly controlled entities Eurallumina SpA Italy Alumina production 56.16 2 November 2006 a The aggregate profit on disposal of interests in businesses in 2006 was US$5 associates, comprising US$303 million paid for acquisitions, net of US$24 million million US$3 million net of tax.
These gains have been excluded from of disposal proceeds.
In accordance with IAS 7, these proceeds were stated net of Underlying earnings, as shown in note 2.
US$17 million of cash and cash equivalents transferred on sale of subsidiaries.
b The Cash flow statement includes the following relating to acquisitions and US$167 million included in Purchase of financial assets.
disposals of interests in businesses: c Non cash disposal proceeds of US$23 million were received during the year.
US$279 million in Acquisitions disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures and 42 SALES AGREEMENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE a On 5 March 2008, the Group completed the sale of its interest b On 12 February 2008, the Group announced an agreement to in the Cortez gold mine previously in the Copper product sell its joint venture interest in the Greens Creek mine to Hecla group for cash consideration of US$1,695 million.
Greens Creek, which mines silver, gold, zinc will benefit from a deferred additional payment in the event of and lead, is currently part of the Copper product group.
The sale a significant discovery of additional reserves and resources at price is US$750 million, comprising a cash component of the Cortez mine and will also retain a contingent royalty US$700 million with the balance in the common stock of the interest in the future production of the property.
Closing is subject to customary conditions, including expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 50 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 50 43 DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 2007 2006 US$000 US$000 Emoluments 11,103 9,852 Long term incentive plans 9,573 255 20,676 10,107 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 130 60 Gains made on exercise of share options 1,260 For 2007, a total of US$6,607,100 2006: US$3,713,900 was During 2007, three directors 2006: three accrued retirement attributable to the highest paid director in respect of the aggregate benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director amounts disclosed in the above table, including gains made on 2006: one accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution exercise of share options.
The accrued pension lump sum arrangements.
entitlement for the highest paid director was US$14,014,000 Emoluments included in the table above have been translated 2006: US$12,124,400.
from local currency at the average rate for the year with the The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in exception of bonus payments which, together with amounts payable respect of its directors was US$13,678,000 2006: US$7,296,800.
under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution end rate.
plans was US$56,000 2006: no pension contributions.
More detailed information concerning directors remuneration, The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in including Tables 1 to 5, on pages 103 to 117 of the 2007 Annual report.
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans under EU IFRS, of the Groups key management, including directors, was US$74,000 2006: US$60,000 to defined contribution plans.
was as follows: 2007 2006 US$000 US$000 Short term employee benefits and costs 25,826 20,663 Post employment benefits 4,480 3,444 Other long term benefits 2,537 737 Termination benefits 817 Share based payments 41,540 1,631 75,200 26,475 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise of social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,481,000 in 2007 and, although disclosed here, are not included in Table 1 of the Remuneration report.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report including Tables 1 to 5 on pages 103 to 117 of the 2007 Annual report.
44 AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2007 2006 US$m US$m Group Auditors remuneration a Audit services pursuant to legislation fees payable the audit of the Groups annual accounts 3.0 2.8 the audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries b 27.7 8.0 30.7 10.8 Other services other services supplied pursuant to legislation c 2.4 taxation services d 0.8 0.8 other services e 10.2 0.9 11.0 4.1 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 41.7 15.0 51 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 44 AUDITORS REMUNERATION continued 2007 2006 US$m US$m Remuneration payable to other accounting firms f Non Audit Services the auditing of accounts of the Groups subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3 taxation services 3.7 2.8 financial systems design and implementation 0.3 0.3 internal audit 4.4 4.2 litigation services 0.1 0.1 other services g 7.0 7.1 15.9 14.8 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.3 0.2 16.2 15.0 57.9 30.0 a The remuneration payable to , the Group Auditors, is d Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services, involving the approved by the Audit committee.
The committee sets the policy for the award of preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes: non audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, advice on acquisitions: advice on transfer pricing.
and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
e Other services include fees in connection with the acquisition of Alcan Inc. and The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to the Groups divestment programme.
 by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with f Remuneration payable to other accounting firms does not include fees for the Groups share of the payments made by proportionally consolidated units.
similar services payable to suppliers of consultancy services other than b Fees payable for the audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries includes accountancy firms.
the statutory audit of subsidiaries and other audit work performed to support the g Other services in respect of other accounting firms includes pension fund and audit of the Group financial statements.
This includes the full costs relating to payroll administration, advice on accounting matters, secondments of accounting the 2007 audit of Alcan Inc. and its subsidiaries of US$18.8 million.
firms staff, forensic audit, advisory services in connection with Section 404 of the c Other services supplied pursuant to legislation primarily relates to preparatory Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other consultancy.
work relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
45 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: Subsidiary companies and proportionally consolidated units Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 37.
Information relating to proportionally consolidated units can be found in note 40.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases relate largely to amounts charged by jointly controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina.
Sales relate largely to charges for supply of coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onsale to third party customers.
2007 2006 Income statement items US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 1,538 1,364 Sales to equity accounted units 1,338 1,497 Balance sheet items US$m US$m Investments in equity accounted units note 14 a 7,038 2,235 Loans to equity accounted units 362 151 Loans from equity accounted units 174 65 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 17 804 648 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 25 219 143 Cash flow statement items US$m US$m Funding of equity accounted units 216 47 a Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 38 and 39.
Pension funds Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 49.
Directors and key management Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 43 and in the Remuneration report on pages 103 to 117 of the 2007 Annual report.
46 EXCHANGE RATES IN US$ The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2007 financial statements are: Annual average Year end 2007 2006 2007 2006 Sterling 2.00 1.84 1.99 1.96 Australian dollar 0.84 0.75 0.88 0.79 Canadian dollar 0.93 0.88 1.01 0.86 South African rand 0.14 0.15 0.15 0.14 Euro 1.37 1.26 1.47 1.32 Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 52 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements 47 BOUGAINVILLE COPPER LIMITED BCL The Panguna mine remains shut down.
Access to the mine site has year 2006: US$1 million.
This is based upon actual transactions for not been possible and an accurate assessment of the condition of the the financial year.
The aggregate amount of capital and reserves assets cannot be determined.
Considerable funding would be reported by BCL as at 31 December 2007 was US$147 million 2006: required to recommence operations to the level which applied at the US$129 million.
The Group owns 214,887,966 shares in BCL, time of the mines closure in 1989 and these funding requirements representing 53.6 per cent of the issued share capital.
The investment cannot be forecast accurately.
The directors do not have access to of US$195 million was fully provided against in 1991.
At 31 reliable, verifiable or objective information on BCL and the directors December 2007, the number of shares in BCL held by the Group, have therefore decided to exclude BCL information from the financial multiplied by the share price, resulted in an amount of US$281 statements.
BCL reported a net profit of US$1 million for the financial million 2006: US$119 million.
48 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Companies have a number all grants of employee share based payments that had not vested as of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in the at 1 January 2004.
These plans have been accounted for in The compensation cost that has been recognised in income for accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Rio Tintos share based compensation plans, and related liability for Share-based Payment, which means that IFRS 2 has been applied to cash-settled plans, are set out in the table below.
Expense recognised Liability at the for the year end of the year 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 39 25 Cash-settled plans 181 7 219 43 Total 220 32 219 43 Lattice-based option valuation model The fair value of share options is estimated as at the date of grant the option.
Participants in the Share Savings Plans are assumed to using a lattice-based option valuation model.
The significant exercise their options immediately after vesting.
The implied assumptions used in the valuation model are disclosed below.
lifetime of options granted is derived from the output of the option Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of Rio valuation model and represents the period of time that options Tintos share returns under the UK and Australian listings.
granted are expected to be outstanding.
The risk-free rate used in Historical data was used to estimate employee forfeiture and the valuation model is equal to the yield available on UK and cancellation rates within the valuation model.
Under the Share Australian zero-coupon government bonds for plc and Limited Option Plans, it is assumed that after options have vested, 20 per options respectively at the date of grant with a term equal to the cent per annum of participants will exercise their options when expected term of the options.
the market price is at least 20 per cent above the exercise price of Summary of options outstanding A summary of the status of the Companies fixed share option plans at 31 December 2007, and changes during the year ended 31 December 2007, is presented below.
Number Weighted Weighted Aggregate average average intrinsic exercise price remaining value per option contractual 2007 life Options outstanding at 31 December 2007 A$ Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan 9 36 1,419,715 18.39 2.1 99 Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 8 35 4,960,203 18.75 6.7 341 Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan A$26 A$79 2,634,607 46.36 2.3 202 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$33 A$94 3,351,754 50.84 6.9 244 12,366,279 886 As at 31 December 2006 there were 12,971,924 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$316 million.
Number Weighted Weighted Aggregate average average intrinsic exercise price remaining value per option contractual 2007 life Options exercisable at 31 December 2007 A$ Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 8 15 2,387,532 13.16 5.2 191 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$33 A$40 1,529,378 35.21 5.4 133 3,916,910 324 As at 31 December 2007, no options were exercisable under both the Rio Tinto plc and the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
53 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 48 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued Share Savings Plans Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market accordingly.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was price.
The key assumptions used in the valuation are noted in the estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including following table.
Risk-free Expected Dividend Forfeiture Cancellation Implied interest rate volatility yield rates rates lifetime %%% %% Years Awards made in 2007 Rio Tinto plc 5.0 35.0 1.5 5.0 5.0 2.2-5.2 Rio Tinto Limited 6.5 28.0 1.4 5.0 5.0 3.2-5.2 Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted Number average Number average exercise exercise price price 2007 2006 Options outstanding at 1 January 1,497,463 14.26 1,624,492 11.84 Granted 324,170 30.47 323,256 20.72 Forfeited 32,518 14.30 35,953 14.06 Exercised 311,458 11.12 376,802 9.59 Cancellations 36,075 20.13 25,097 12.38 Expired 21,867 10.36 12,433 11.72 Options outstanding at 31 December 1,419,715 18.39 1,497,463 14.26 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 13.16 7.93 Share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 41.31 24.63 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year 28.55 27.86 Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted Number average Number average exercise exercise price price 2007 2006 A$ A$ Options outstanding at 1 January 2,748,026 36.00 2,786,301 30.56 Granted 548,549 79.27 494,141 56.80 Forfeited 121,590 37.05 81,201 30.85 Exercised 480,955 27.75 414,201 25.65 Cancellations 39,126 41.75 36,936 30.94 Expired 20,297 27.71 78 25.57 Options outstanding at 31 December 2,634,607 46.36 2,748,026 36.00 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year A$ 34.13 23.56 Share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year A$ 106.28 69.25 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year A$ 81.13 74.16 Share Option Plans The Group has a policy of settling these awards in equity, although and that of the index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The and the index was simulated many thousands of times to derive awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based applying to equity-settled, share based payment transactions.
The option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value performance conditions in relation to Total Shareholder Return of the options.
TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for The key assumptions are noted in the following table.
these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tintos TSR Risk-free Expected Dividend Turnover Implied interest rate volatility yield rates lifetime %% %% Years Awards made in 2007 Rio Tinto plc 5.0 34.0 2.4 3.0 5.2 Rio Tinto Limited 5.8 27.0 2.2 3.0 5.9 A summary of the status of the Companies performance-based share option plans at 31 December 2007, and changes during the year ended 31 December 2007, is presented below.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 54 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements 48 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted average average exercise exercise price price 2007 2006 Number Number Options outstanding at 1 January 5,185,847 16.33 6,290,155 13.45 Granted 786,002 27.29 931,418 27.11 Forfeited 42,211 24.73 63,713 25.16 Exercised 969,435 12.50 1,972,013 11.95 Options outstanding at 31 December 4,960,203 18.75 5,185,847 16.33 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 6.25 7.40 Weighted average share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year 27.48 26.89 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year 39.25 29.01 In addition to the equity-settled options shown above, there were 121,131 cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2007.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2007 was US$7 million 2006: US$1 million.
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted average average exercise exercise price price 2007 2006 Number A$ Number A$ Options outstanding at 1 January 3,540,588 43.53 3,959,472 36.17 Granted 568,638 75.12 716,318 71.06 Forfeited 20,504 71.57 89,041 53.64 Exercised 736,968 31.88 1,043,766 33.65 Expired 2,395 39.87 Options outstanding at 31 December 3,351,754 50.84 3,540,588 43.53 Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year A$ 14.37 17.09 Weighted average share price, at date of grant, for options granted during the year A$ 75.57 70.85 Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year A$ 102.04 76.64 In addition to the equity-settled options shown above, there were 53,369 cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2007.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2007 was US$3 million 2006: US$2 million.
Share Ownership Plan The fair values of awards of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio purchase.
These awards are settled in equity.
The total fair value of Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of shares awarded during the year was 1,145,000 2006: 988,000.
Mining Companies Comparative Plan Awards under this plan are accounted for in accordance with the product group CEOs.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at requirements applying to cash-settled, share based payment three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
If any awards are ultimately settled in shares, the with the method of accounting for cash-settled awards, fair values liability is transferred direct to equity as the consideration for the are subsequently remeasured each year to reflect the number of equity instruments issued.
The grant date fair value of the awards awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award, performance.
reduced by 50 per cent for anticipated relative TSR performance.
In A summary of the status of the Companies performance-based addition, for the valuations after 2005, the market value is reduced share plans at 31 December 2007, and changes during the year, is for non receipt of dividends between measurement date and date presented below.
of vesting excluding post 2003 awards for executive directors and Rio Tinto plc Mining Companies Comparative Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted average average fair value fair value at grant at grant date date 2007 2006 Number Number Non vested shares at 1 January 2,777,374 7.36 2,276,511 6.62 Awarded 719,898 12.61 850,126 9.02 Forfeited 45,370 10.39 60,826 8.18 Failed performance conditions 221,656 6.26 233,843 6.20 Vested 52,173 6.26 54,594 6.22 Non vested shares at 31 December 3,178,073 8.60 2,777,374 7.36 Weighted-average share price at date of vesting 27.99 28.67 000 000 Total fair value of shares issued in settlement of shares vested during the year 457 529 Total cash payments made in settlement of shares vested during the year 1,003 1,035 Total cash payments made in settlement of shares vested during previous years 1,374 55 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 55 48 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued Rio Tinto Limited Mining Companies Comparative Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted average average fair value fair value at grant at grant date date 2007 2006 Number A$ Number A$ Non vested shares at 1 January 1,897,008 19.35 1,510,846 17.27 Awarded 533,225 34.91 646,637 23.59 Forfeited 39,790 31.36 83,092 19.90 Failed performance conditions 149,044 17.50 146,738 16.84 Vested 31,711 17.58 30,645 16.84 Non vested shares at 31 December 2,209,688 23.04 1,897,008 19.35 Weighted-average share price at date of vesting A$ 77.95 71.65 A$000 A$000 Total fair value of shares issued in settlement of shares vested during the year 879 1,136 Total cash payments made in settlement of shares vested during the year 1,604 1,060 Management Share Plan The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 and is equal to share price on the day of grant.
described in the Remuneration report.
The awards will be settled in Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to annum of outstanding awards.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the A summary of the status of the Companies fixed share plans at requirements applying to equity-settled, share based payment 31 December 2007, and changes during the year, is presented below.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is set Rio Tinto plc Management Share Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted average average fair value fair value at grant at grant date date 2007 2006 Number Number Non vested awards at 1 January Awarded 365,670 30.09 Forfeited 19,382 28.33 Vested 2,072 27.15 Non vested awards at 31 December 344,216 30.20 Estimated weighted average share price of awards vested during the year 43.75 In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 6,225 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2007.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2007 was less than US$1 million 2006: nil.
Rio Tinto Limited Management Share Plan 2007 Weighted 2006 Weighted average average fair value fair value at grant at grant date date 2007 2006 Number A$ Number A$ Non vested awards at 1 January Awarded 282,565 81.65 Forfeited 9,973 76.02 Vested 1,392 74.84 Non vested awards at 31 December 271,200 81.89 Estimated weighted average share price of awards vested during the year A$ 98.69 In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 6,850 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2007.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 56 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 56 49 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement actuaries.
A number of defined benefit and defined contribution healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined plans were brought into the Group as a result of the Alcan contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in acquisition.
These plans are reflected in this note, except for plans separate trustee administered funds.
Valuations of these plans are sponsored by the Packaging business.
Those plans are accounted for produced and updated annually to 31 December by qualified as assets or liabilities held for sale.
Pension plans The majority of the Group's pension obligations are in Canada, the characteristics of both types of plan.
UK, the US, Australia and Switzerland, with further notable A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the obligations in other European countries.
The main plans are two Canadian plans There are a number of pension arrangements in the UK.
The for salaried and bargaining employees.
Benefits for salaried staff are defined benefit sections of these arrangements are linked to final generally linked to final average pay, while benefits for bargaining pay and are closed to new members, with new employees being employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions.
admitted to defined contribution sections.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the In Australia, there are two superannuation plans providing Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in defined benefits linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
Switzerland and provides benefits linked to final average pay.
The main plan contains principally defined contribution liabilities, The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit but is accounted for as a defined benefit plan as it contains plans, which are included in the figures below.
Post retirement healthcare plans Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and criteria.
in some cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Plan assets The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were: 2007 2006 Equities 60.2% 67.2% Bonds 29.4% 25.2% Property 7.2% 4.3% Other 3.2% 3.3% 100.0% 100.0% The assets of the plans are generally managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Group's securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities within the defined benefit plans is US$44 million.
57 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 57 49 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Main assumptions rates per annum The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans are set out below: UK Australia a US Canada Eurozone Switzerland Other mainly Africa b At 31 December 2007 Rate of increase in salaries 5.0% 5.5% 3.9% 3.4% 2.8% 2.6% 7.5% Rate of increase in pensions 3.1% 2.7% 0.6% 2.3% 0.8% 5.5% Discount rate 5.9% 5.4% 6.2% 5.5% 5.5% 3.6% 8.1% Inflation 3.4% 3.6% 2.4% 2.2% 2.3% 1.4% 5.5% At 23 October 2007 Alcan plans only Rate of increase in salaries 4.3% 5.0% 3.9% 3.5% 2.5% 2.3% Rate of increase in pensions 2.7% 0.8% 2.0% 0.8% Discount rate 5.8% 5.2% 6.1% 5.4% 5.2% 3.5% Inflation 3.3% 3.5% 2.4% 2.3% 2.0% 1.1% At 31 December 2006 Rate of increase in salaries 5.1% 5.1% 3.9% 3.8% 6.8% Rate of increase in pensions 3.1% 3.1% 4.8% Discount rate 5.2% 5.0% 5.9% 5.0% 7.4% Inflation 3.1% 3.1% 2.4% 2.3% 4.8% a The discount rate shown for Australia is after tax.
b The assumptions vary by location for the 'Other' plans.
Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in which are predominantly in the US, were: discount rate: 6.1 per cent mortality.
2006: 5.8 per cent, medical trend rate: 7.7 per cent reducing to 5.1 The mortality tables used for the main arrangements imply that per cent by the year 2016 broadly on a straight line basis 2006: 8.2 a male aged 60 at the balance sheet date has an expected future per cent, reducing to 5.2 per cent by the year 2011, claims cost lifetime of 24 years 2006: 24 years.
A male reaching age 60 20 based on individual company experience.
years after the balance sheet date would have an expected future For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post lifetime of 25 years 2006: 25 years.
The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as within pension plans on investment returns.
management's best estimate of the long term returns of the major The sources used to determine management's best estimate of asset classes equities, bonds, property and other weighted by the long term returns are numerous and include country-specific bond actual allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement yields, which may be derived from the market using local bond date.
The expected rate of return is calculated using geometric indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country-specific averaging.
The expected rates of return shown have been reduced to inflation and investment market expectations derived from market allow for plan expenses including, where appropriate, taxes incurred data and analysts' or governments' expectations as applicable.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 58 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 58 49 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Total expense recognised in the income statement 2007 2006 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Current employer service cost for Defined Benefits DB 134 11 145 102 Current employer service cost for Defined Contribution benefits within DB plans 106 106 74 Current employer service cost for Defined Contribution plans 40 40 21 Interest cost 482 34 516 314 Expected return on assets 550 550 326 Past service cost 7 24 17 7 Gains on curtailment and settlement 3 Total expense 219 21 240 189 The above expense is included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
It includes the pension expense of Alcan businesses, excluding Packaging, post 23 October 2007.
Total amount recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 2007 2006 US$m US$m Actuarial gain loss 141 373 Cumulative amount recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense at 31 December 489 348 Actuarial gain loss includes US$ 4 million loss related to equity accounted units.
Surpluses deficits in the plans The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19: 2007 2006 2005 2004 Pension Other Total Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 16,387 16,387 6,031 5,115 4,777 Present value of obligations funded 16,856 16,856 5,847 5,315 5,118 Present value of obligations unfunded 981 1,087 2,068 597 596 649 Present value of obligations Total 17,837 1,087 18,924 6,444 5,911 5,767 Unrecognised past service cost 2 2 3 Aggregate surplus deficit to be shown in the balance sheet 1,450 1,089 2,539 410 796 990 Comprising: Deficits 2,186 1,089 3,275 770 996 1,069 Surpluses 736 736 360 200 79 Net deficits surpluses on pension plans 1,450 1,450 48 324 450 Unfunded post retirement healthcare obligation 1,089 1,089 458 472 540 The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet as Trade and Other Receivables.
Deficits are shown in the balance sheet as Provision for post retirement benefits.
Contributions to plans Contributions to pension plans totalled US$246 million 2006: Contributions for other benefits totalled US$30 million 2006: US$172 million.
These contributions include US$30 million 2006: US$19 million.
US$26 million for plans providing purely defined contribution Contributions to pension plans for 2008 are estimated to be benefits including 401k plans in the US and US$10 million 2006: around US$220 million higher than for 2007.
Of this increase, US$9 million to industry-wide or multi-employer plans: these are US$140 million is due to the Alcan acquisition with most of the charged against profits and are included in the figures for current remainder relating to new US funding regulations.
Healthcare plans employer service cost shown above.
They include contributions of are unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to Alcan businesses, excluding Packaging, post 23 October 2007. benefit payments and therefore cannot be predetermined.
59 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 59 49 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and in the fair value of assets The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses do not of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the who participate in the plans and who are employed in operations Group.
Pure defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are that are proportionally consolidated or equity accounted.
excluded from the movements below.
2007 2006 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation: Present value of obligation at start of the year 5,983 461 6,444 5,911 Current employer service cost 261 11 272 206 Interest cost 482 34 516 314 Contributions by plan participants 190 190 113 Experience loss gain 73 11 62 89 Changes in actuarial assumptions gain 289 26 315 124 Benefits paid 542 30 572 361 Alcan acquisition 11,216 651 11,867 Inclusion removal of arrangements 42 Past service cost 7 29 22 10 Curtailment gains 3 Currency exchange rate loss 456 26 482 331 Present value of obligation at end of the year 17,837 1,087 18,924 6,444 Gains and losses on obligations 2007 2006 2005 2004 Experience gains and losses : i. e. variances between the estimate of obligations and the subsequent outcome Loss gain US$ million 62 89 139 148 As a percentage of the present value of the obligations 0% 1% 2% 3% Change in assumptions gain loss US$ million 315 124 180 429 2007 2006 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 6,031 6,031 5,115 Expected return on plan assets 550 550 326 Actuarial loss gain on plan assets 108 108 338 Contributions by plan participants 190 190 113 Contributions by employer 233 30 263 189 Benefits paid 542 30 572 361 Alcan acquisition 9,617 9,617 Inclusion removal of arrangements 41 Currency exchange rate gain 416 416 352 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 16,387 16,387 6,031 Actual return on plan assets 442 664 2007 2006 2005 2004 Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets: Loss gain US$ million 108 338 223 387 As a percentage of plan assets 1% 6% 4% 8% Post retirement healthcare sensitivity to changes in assumptions An increase of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would decrease would increase the aggregate of the current service cost and interest the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost cost components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$5 components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$5 million 2006: US$6 million, and increase the benefit obligation for million 2006: US$5 million, and decrease the benefit obligation for these plans by US$89 million 2006: US$73 million.
A decrease of these plans by US$77 million 2006: US$62 million.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 60 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 60 50 RIO TINTO LIMITED BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2007 2006 Note A$m A$m Non current assets Investments 51 6,912 6,969 Loans to subsidiaries 51 232 239 Trade and other receivables 5 31 Available for sale financial assets 51 8 9 Other 1 1 Tax recoverable 164 7,158 7,413 Current assets Loans to subsidiaries 51 6,099 4,465 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 6,100 4,466 Current liabilities Loans from subsidiaries 238 283 Trade and other payables 2 Tax payable 385 935 623 1,220 Net current assets 5,477 3,246 Non current liabilities Loans from subsidiaries 2,835 2,956 Deferred tax liabilities 51 1 4 2,836 2,960 Net assets 9,799 7,699 Shareholders equity Share capital 1,587 1,587 Other reserves 624 575 Retained earnings 7,588 5,537 Total equity 51 9,799 7,699 a Prepared under Australian IFRS AIFRS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are terms are deducted from investments.
Trade amounts receivable from no significant measurement differences between AIFRS and EU IFRS.
subsidiaries and payable to subsidiaries in the normal course of business and b Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost.
Such investments include other amounts advanced on commercial terms and conditions are included in both investments in shares issued by the subsidiary and other parent entity receivables or payables as appropriate.
interests that in substance form part of the parent entitys investment in the Interest free loans which have been assessed as, in substance, forming part of subsidiary.
These include investments in the form of interest free loans which the parent entitys investment in the subsidiary to which the loan was issued have no fixed repayment terms and which have been provided to subsidiaries as have been reclassified during the period.
2006 comparatives have been an additional source of long term capital.
Loans from subsidiaries on equivalent reclassified to enhance comparability.
Reclassification of Interest Free Loans 31 December 2006 Reclassification 31 December 2006 as reported in 2006 as reported in 2007 Currents Assets Loans to subsidiaries 4,527 62 4,465 Non Current Assets Investments 7,835 866 6,969 Non Current Assets Loans to subsidiaries 303 64 239 Current liabilities Loans from subsidiaries 517 234 283 Non Current liabilities Loans from subsidiaries 3,713 757 2,956 The accounts on pages 2 to 69 were approved by the directors on 5 March 2008 and signed on their behalf by: Paul Skinner Tom Albanese Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Finance director 61 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 61 51 RIO TINTO LIMITED BALANCE SHEET DISCLOSURES 2007 2006 A$m A$m Investments in Group companies At 1 January 6,969 6,960 Additions, including net contributions from share based payments 64 134 Impairments 121 125 At 31 December 6,912 6,969 Available for sale investments At 1 January 9 9 Fair value adjustment on available for sale investments 4 Additions 3 At 31 December 8 9 Total investments 6,920 6,978 Loans to subsidiaries At 1 January 4,704 1,831 Advances 1,627 2,873 At 31 December 6,331 4,704 non current 232 239 current 6,099 4,465 Deferred tax liability At 1 January 4 5 Charged to profit and loss account 3 1 Charged to equity 2 At 31 December relating to timing differences 1 4 Statement of changes in equity Total equity at 1 January 7,699 5,039 Fair value adjustment on available for sale investments, net of tax 4 2 Share based payments 53 3 Net income recognised directly in equity 49 5 Profit for the financial year 3,362 4,049 Total recognised income and expense for the year 3,411 4,054 Transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders: Dividends paid 1,311 1,394 Total equity at 31 December 9,799 7,699 Contingent liabilities Bank and other performance guarantees c 1,908 1,812 a Prepared under AIFRS see note a on page 60. b Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each guaranteed contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
These guarantees are excluded from the figures above.
c Bank and other performance guarantees relate principally to the obligations of subsidiary companies.
52 RIO TINTO LIMITED INCOME STATEMENT 2007 2006 A$m A$m Revenue 3,759 4,336 Impairment charges 122 125 Other operating costs 238 198 Operating profit 3,399 4,013 Finance costs 29 9 Profit before taxation 3,370 4,004 Taxation 8 45 Profit for the financial year 3,362 4,049 a Prepared under AIFRS see note a on page 60. b Finance costs includes exchange gains and losses.
Notes to the 2007 Full financial statements 62 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp15-62 5 3 08 21:39 Page 62 53 RIO TINTO LIMITED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2007 2006 A$m A$m Dividends received 3,543 4,245 Cash payments to suppliers and employees 187 197 Cash flow from operating activities 3,356 4,048 Interest received 191 59 Interest paid 29 9 Tax paid 85 26 Cash flow from operating activities after financing costs and tax 3,603 4,124 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of investments 63 123 Funding of related parties advances 2,143 2,662 Cash used in from investing activities 2,206 2,785 Cash flows from financing activities Loans raised proceeds from borrowings 86 Loans repaid repayment of borrowings 86 31 Dividends paid to Rio Tinto Limited shareholders 1,311 1,394 Net cash used in financing activities 1,397 1,339 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents Opening cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Closing cash and cash equivalents 1 1 a Prepared under AIFRS see note a on page 60.
63 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Rio Tinto plc U54979 pp63-74 5 3 08 21:59 Page 63 Rio Tinto plc COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2007 2006 Note US$m US$m Fixed assets Investments B 2,488 2,314 2,488 2,314 Current assets Amounts owed by subsidiaries 1,882 4,033 Cash at bank and in hand 6 4 1,888 4,037 Creditors due within one year Amounts owed to subsidiaries 214 564 Dividends payable 10 7 224 571 Net current assets 1,664 3,466 Total assets less current liabilities 4,152 5,780 Creditors due after more than one year 169 28 Net assets 3,983 5,752 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C 172 172 Share premium account D 1,932 1,919 Other reserves D 17 17 Profit and loss account D 1,862 3,644 Equity shareholders funds 3,983 5,752 a The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with b Profit after tax for the year dealt with in the profit and loss account of the applicable UK accounting standards.
Note A explains the principal accounting Rio Tinto plc parent company amounted to US$717 million 2006: US$2,694 policies.
As permitted by section 230 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985, no profit and loss account for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown.
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, profit and loss account and the related notes, were approved by the directors on 5 March 2008 and the balance sheet is signed on their behalf by Paul Skinner Tom Albanese Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Finance director Rio Tinto plc 64 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp63-74 5 3 08 21:59 Page 64 A PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES UNDER UK GAAP a Basis of Accounting The Rio Tinto plc entity financial statements have been prepared Such obligations result in corresponding increases in the carrying under the historical cost convention and in accordance with value of investments in subsidiaries.
The directors have reviewed the Companys existing accounting policies and consider that they are e Share based payments consistent with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard In 2007, most of the Companys share based payment plans were FRS 18 Accounting Policies.
The financial statements have been settled by the issue of shares from Treasury.
Previously they were prepared on a going concern basis.
The fair value of the grant is recognised The Companys accounting policies are consistent with last year.
as an addition to the cost of the investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work.
The fair value is recognised over b Deferred tax the relevant vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to the Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences profit and loss account reserve.
Any payments received from the that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except Companys subsidiaries in respect of these share based payments that deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is result in an adjustment to reduce the cost of the investment.
The fair more likely than not that they will be recovered.
value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking Deferred tax is recognised on an undiscounted basis.
into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg Total Shareholder Return.
When market prices are not c Currency translation available, the Company uses fair values provided by independent The Companys functional currency is the US dollar.
Transactions actuaries using a lattice based option valuation model.
denominated in other currencies, including the issue of shares, are Non market vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the the financial year.
Exchange differences are charged or credited to estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
d Investments Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less impairment f Revenue recognition provisions.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or Interest is accounted for on the accruals basis.
Dividend income is changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value g Dividends of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a or disposal value if higher.
The discount rate applied is based upon present obligation ie when they have been approved.
the Companys weighted average cost of capital, with appropriate adjustment for the risks associated with the relevant unit.
h Treasury shares Obligations for financial guarantees issued by the Company to The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and other Group companies are reflected as liabilities at fair value, in held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments Measurement.
funds through the profit and loss account reserve.
B RIO TINTO PLC FIXED ASSETS 2007 2006 US$m US$m Fixed asset investments Shares in Group companies: At 1 January 2,314 2,284 Reductions 6 Recognition of fair value of financial guarantees 174 36 At 31 December 2,488 2,314 Loans to Group companies: At 1 January 1,346 Repayments 1,346 At 31 December Total 2,488 2,314 65 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Rio Tinto plc U54979 pp63-74 5 3 08 21:59 Page 65 C RIO TINTO PLC CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL 2007 2006 US$m US$m Share capital account At 1 January 172 172 At 31 December 172 172 a During the year, 27,700,000 2006: 46,340,000 shares were bought back and held as treasury shares, of which 969,435 2006: 1,117,021 were re-issued from treasury.
The nominal value of shares bought back was US$6 million 2006: US$8.5 million.
In addition, nil 2006: 800,000 shares were bought back and cancelled during the year.
D RIO TINTO PLC SHARE PREMIUM AND RESERVES Share Other Profit and premium reserves loss account account US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2007 1,919 17 3,644 Own shares repurchased 1,372 Treasury shares utilised 43 Adjustment for share based payments 6 Premium on issue of shares 13 Profit for the financial year 717 Dividends paid 1,164 At 31 December 2007 1,932 17 1,862 Share Other Profit and premium reserves loss account account US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2006 1,888 17 5,632 Own shares repurchased 2,394 Provision for share buybacks 288 Treasury shares utilised 36 Adjustment for share based payments 6 Premium on issue of shares 31 Profit for the financial year 2,694 Dividends paid 2,030 At 31 December 2006 1,919 17 3,644 E RIO TINTO PLC CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2007 2006 US$m US$m Bank and other performance guarantees in respect of subsidiaries a 40,145 2,874 a The above amount includes $37.8 billion guaranteed by the Company to finance the acquisition of Alcan Inc. on 23 October 2007.
Generally, this structure has regard to the primary product of each business unit but there are exceptions.
For example, the Copper group includes certain gold operations.
The following changes have been made to the way Rio Tinto presents its financial information by business unit.
Full year 2006 results have been restated accordingly.
During 2007, Industrial Minerals and Diamonds were combined to form the Diamonds and Industrial Minerals Product group.
Project evaluation and other costs specifically attributable to Product groups are now reported as part of Product group earnings.
Previously, these were reported centrally in Exploration and evaluation and Other items, respectively.
Capital expenditure by Product group now includes capitalised evaluation costs.
60 per cent and Murowa 77.8 per cent.
b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to equity i Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Borax 100 per cent, Dampier Salt accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and 68.4 per cent and Luzenac Talc 100 per cent.
j Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals c Net earnings represent profit after tax for the year attributable to the Rio Tinto of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less Group.
Earnings of subsidiaries are stated before finance items but after the disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of amortisation of the discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributable to equity subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure accounted units include interest charges and amortisation of discount.
Earnings of equity accounted units.
Amounts relating to equity accounted units not attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted before arriving at total capital at Underlying earnings.
d The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent k Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets before deducting net debt, is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary.
The Groups net beneficial less outside shareholders interests which are calculated by reference to the net interest is therefore 53 per cent, net of amounts attributable to outside equity assets of the relevant companies i. e. net of such companies debt.
accounted units, Rio Tintos net investment is shown.
e Includes Rio Tintos 75.7 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, which is managed by l On this line, operating assets deal with Alcan Packaging and other assets held for Rio Tinto Coal Australia, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
The remaining data on this line relates only to Alcan Packaging.
f Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Aluminium 100 per cent and Anglesey Aluminium 51 per cent.
g Under the terms of a joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998.
Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief 68 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp63-74 5 3 08 21:59 Page 68 Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Corporations content requirements of the Corporations Act applied on the basis Act, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued that the consolidated entity for those purposes is the Group, except an order dated 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006 that the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare a separate that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from certain requirements of Remuneration report that is merely cross-referenced in the directors the Corporations Act in relation to the Company's financial report, instead of including in the Directors report the statements and associated reports.
The order essentially continues Remuneration report otherwise required by the Corporations Act.
the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since the formation The separate Remuneration report see pages 103 to 117 must of the Groups Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in 1995.
The include all the information required to be included in a order applied to Rio Tinto Limiteds financial reporting obligations remuneration report under the Corporations Act, as well as the for financial years and half-years ending between 31 December information required by AIFRS namely, AASB 124 Related Party 2005 and 31 December 2009 inclusive.
Disclosures dealing with compensation of directors and executives In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act who are key management personnel, and certain other disclosures.
to prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the its controlled entities, the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their including timing requirements in relation to those consolidated respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic entity.
financial statements including any concise financial statements, In addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be the auditor's report and the directors report.
The separate prepared: Remuneration report is also required to be lodged with the in accordance with the principles and requirements of Australian Securities and Investments Commission at the same time International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the as the consolidated financial statements, and Rio Tinto Limited must European Union EU IFRS rather than the Australian equivalents not distribute or make available the Remuneration report without of International Financial Reporting Standards AIFRS except for the consolidated financial statements and directors report.
At the one limited instance in the case of any concise report, and in Companys AGM, it is required to allow shareholders to vote on a accordance with United Kingdom financial reporting obligations non binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration report, on the generally: same basis as would otherwise be required for a Remuneration on the basis that the transitional provisions of International report under the Corporations Act.
Financial Reporting Standard 1 First-time Adoption of Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate International Financial Reporting Standards should be applied consolidated financial statements solely for it and its controlled using the combined financial statements previously prepared for entities.
Rio Tinto Limited is required to prepare and lodge parent Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entity financial statements for itself in respect of each relevant entities under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the financial year, in accordance with the principles and requirements United Kingdom, under which the DLC merger between Rio Tinto of AIFRS other than in respect of key management personnel Limited and Rio Tinto plc was accounted for using merger, rather compensation disclosures under AASB 124, which as noted above than acquisition, accounting reflecting that neither Rio Tinto are instead incorporated into the separate Remuneration report, Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is controlled by, the and to have those statements audited.
Those financial statements other, and meaning that the existing carrying amounts, rather are not required to be laid before the Company's AGM or distributed than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the time of the DLC to shareholders as a matter of course.
merger were used to measure those assets and liabilities at However, Rio Tinto Limited must: formation : include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as a on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single note, Rio Tinto Limiteds parent entity balance sheet, income company with their respective shareholders being the statement, statement of changes in equity and statement of shareholders in that single company : and cashflows, prepared in accordance with AIFRS: and with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AIFRS, of the following make available the full parent entity financial statements free of amounts: consolidated profit for the financial year, total charge to shareholders on request, and also include a copy of them consolidated recognised income for the financial year and total on the Companys website.
consolidated equity at the end of the financial year see page 5.
The parent entity financial statements are available for download Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in from the Rio Tinto website at www.
Shareholders may accordance with relevant United Kingdom requirements.
Rio Tinto also request a copy free of charge by contacting the Rio Tinto Limited must also prepare a directors report which satisfies the Limited company secretary.
69 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements Directors declaration U54979 pp63-74 5 3 08 21:59 Page 69 Directors declaration The Rio Tinto Group financial statements and notes have been Board, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 prepared on the basis of all IFRS and Interpretations adopted by the and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then European Union and as issued by the International Accounting ended.
The Rio Tinto plc financial statements give a true and fair Standards Board that are mandatory for periods ending view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 31 December 2007 applicable Australian law as amended by the Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 31 December 2007.
27 January 2006 as and in accordance with applicable United The directors have been given the declaration required by Kingdom law, amended on 22 December 2006 and Article 4 of the Section 295A of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 by the chief European Union IAS regulation.
The Rio Tinto plc financial executive and the finance director.
statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable In the directors opinion: United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards The financial statements and notes are in accordance with the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the Australian Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with relevant Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities legal and regulatory requirements in the United Kingdom and and Investments Commission Order dated 27 January 2006 as Australia as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments amended on 22 December 2006.
Commission Order dated 27 January 2006 as amended on There are reasonable grounds to believe that each of the Rio 22 December 2006 and Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Tinto Group, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited has adequate Related Party Disclosures.
financial resources to continue in operational existence for the The Rio Tinto Group financial statements and notes give a true foreseeable future and to pay its debts as and when they become and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European due and payable.
Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards By order of the board Paul Skinner Tom Albanese Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Finance director 5 March 2008 5 March 2008 5 March 2008 Auditors independence declaration As lead auditor for the audit of Rio Tinto Limited for the year ended 31 December 2007, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the only contravention of: a the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit: and b any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit: is set out below.
On 16 August 2007, a partner of the firm located overseas and unconnected to the audit reported that he held during the period an immaterial investment in Rio Tinto Limited.
The investment was disposed the next business day after becoming aware of the matter.
This matter was identified as part of our on-going quality control system.
All reasonable steps were undertaken to ensure that the matter was resolved as soon as possible.
I report that the matter has been resolved, and in doing so do not believe that the matter has impacted my objectivity or impartiality for the purpose of this audit.
This declaration is in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and the entities it controlled during the period.
Robert Hubbard Partner  Brisbane 5 March 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited 70 Rio Tinto 2007 Full Financial Statements U54979 pp63-74 5 3 08 21:59 Page 70 Independent auditors report to the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited We have audited the financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group the We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, The other information comprises only those sections preceding the the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Shareholders information.
We consider the implications for our report if Income and Expense, the Group Reconciliation with Australian IFRS and we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material the related notes: and the financial statements of Rio Tinto plc the inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do Rio Tinto plc Financial Statements which comprise the Rio Tinto plc not extend to any other information.
Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The Group Financial Statements and the Rio Tinto plc Financial Statements together the Financial Basis of audit opinion Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board in the Report included in the accompanying Annual Report that is described as United Kingdom.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of having been audited, comprising the information required by Part 3 of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Schedule 7A to the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 the Part 3 of Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Schedule 7A Information and the information about the remuneration includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements of key management personnel required by paragraph 25 of Australian made by the directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures the of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances Australian Remuneration Disclosures.
of the Rio Tinto Group and Rio Tinto plc, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law in the provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the United Kingdom and Australia as amended by the Australian Securities Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be and Investments Commission Order dated 27 January 2006 as amended audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or on 22 December 2006 the ASIC Order and International Financial other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and for overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial preparing the Rio Tinto plc Financial Statements and the Remuneration Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Opinion Accounting Practice and, in relation to the Australian Remuneration In our opinion: Disclosures, in accordance with paragraph 25 of Australian Accounting the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures are set out in the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the statement of directors responsibilities included in the Corporate Rio Tinto Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and Governance section of the accompanying Annual Report.
cash flows for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985, the legal and regulatory requirements in the United Kingdom and Australia Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order and and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation: including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the members the Rio Tinto plc Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Companies as a body in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting accordance with Section 235 of the United Kingdom Companies Act Practice, of the state of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at 31 December 2007: 1985 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Section 308 of the Australian the Rio Tinto plc Financial Statements have been properly prepared in Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985: purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the auditable information contained within the Remuneration Report responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this included in the accompanying Annual Report required by Part 3 of report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Schedule 7A to the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 has been agreed by our prior consent in writing.
properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements Act 1985 and the information about the remuneration of key give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and the management personnel contained within the Remuneration Report part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly complies with the requirements of paragraph 25 of Australian prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985, Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures: and the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order and the information given in the Directors Report included in the paragraph 25 of Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party accompanying Annual Report is consistent with the Financial Disclosures and whether, in addition, the Group Financial Statements Statements.
have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs information given in the Directors Report included in the accompanying As explained in Note 1 Principal accounting policies to the Group Annual Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
The Financial Statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal information given in the Directors Report includes that specific obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has information presented in the Operating and Financial Report that is cross also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting referred from the Directors Report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Companies have In our opinion the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then specified by United Kingdom law regarding directors remuneration and ended.
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects  LLP  Rio Tinto plcs compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Chartered Accountants & Chartered Accountants Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Registered Auditors Brisbane Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to London 5 March 2008 consider whether the boards statement on internal control covers all 5 March 2008 in respect of the members of risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the in respect of the members of Rio Tinto Limited Companies or Groups corporate governance procedures or their risk and Rio Tinto plc control procedures.
For further information on these million net income, which are analysed in note 2. exchange rates, see note 46. b The financial data above have been extracted from the financial statements.
c Basic earnings per ordinary share and basic underlying earnings per ordinary The Australian dollar and Sterling amounts are based on the US dollar amounts, share do not recognise the dilution resulting from share options in issue.
retranslated at average or closing rates as appropriate, except for the dividends Notes to the Financial summary 1998-2007 a Information for the years 1998 to 2003 is stated under UK GAAP and has not j Fixed Assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, been restated except where indicated below.
and investments in and long term loans to equity accounted units.
b Figures for 1998, reported under UK GAAP, were restated following the k Capital expenditure comprises purchases less disposals of property, plant and implementation of FRS 12 in 1999.
Shareholders funds for 2001 and prior years equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other were restated following the implementation of FRS 19 in 2002. intangible assets plus direct funding provided to equity accounted units for c Information for the years 2004 to 2007 is stated under EU IFRS.
The Group Rio Tintos share of their capital expenditure.
The figures include 100 per cent of implemented IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 without restatement of comparatives.
subsidiaries capital expenditure, but exclude that of equity accounted units d Adjustments have been made for 2002 and subsequent years to include in sales except where directly funded by Rio Tinto.
revenue, certain amounts charged to customers for freight and handling costs, l Total cash flow from operations comprises Cash flow from consolidated which previously were deducted from operating costs.
operations together with Dividends from equity accounted units.
Exploration and e Certain units that were equity accounted under UK GAAP are proportionally evaluation costs charged against income were previously included in Cash used consolidated under EU IFRS and vice-versa.
in investing activities but are now included within Cash flow from operating f Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by activities.
As a result, exploration and evaluation costs expensed have been Rio Tinto with its EU IFRS results to provide greater understanding of the reclassified in the comparative periods within the cash flow statement.
underlying business performance of its operations.
It is defined in note 2 to the m Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable Financial Statements.
Underlying earnings is similar but not identical to the to Rio Tinto shareholders, which involved restatement of 2003 and prior years.
Adjusted earnings measure that Rio Tinto reported with its UK GAAP results.
n Operating margin is the percentage of Underlying Adjusted PBIT, after excluding Adjusted earnings was defined as excluding exceptional items of such magnitude tax on equity accounted units, to Gross sales revenue.
that their exclusion was necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfilled their o Total capital comprises year end shareholders funds plus net debt and outside purpose of reflecting the underlying performance of the Group.
before interest and tax PBIT and Adjusted PBIT are similar to Underlying p Underlying Adjusted earnings: shareholders funds represents Underlying or earnings and Adjusted earnings except that they are stated before tax and Adjusted earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing interest.
equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders.
g Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discounts.
q Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable h Under EU IFRS, certain gains and losses on exchange and on revaluation of excluding the amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest is derivatives are included in the Groups Net earnings.
Under UK GAAP, these did covered by Underlying operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus not have an impact on the income statement.
These items are excluded from dividends from equity accounted units.
Underlying operating profit is similar to Underlying earnings.
Underlying earnings but is stated before tax, interest and share of profit after tax i Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year.
These usually include an Interim dividend paid in the year, and a final dividend paid after the end of the year.
The Special dividend of 110 US cents per share paid in 2006 is not included in the table.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group headquartered in the UK, combining Rio Tinto plc, a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto 2007 Full financial statements Full financial Full financial statements statements Keeping the world moving Keeping the world moving Summary financial Summary financial statements statements Keeping the world moving Keeping the world moving Rio Tinto Notes to financial information by business unit Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group headquartered in the Business units have been classified according to the Groups management structure.
UK, combining Rio Tinto plc, a public company listed on the London Stock The following changes have been made to the way Rio Tinto presents its results.
Full year 2006 results have been presented consistently with 2007.
During 2007, Industrial Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is listed on the Australian Minerals and Diamonds were combined to form the Diamonds and Industrial Minerals product group.
a Net earnings represent profit after tax for the year attributable to the Rio Tinto e The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent Group.
Earnings of subsidiaries are stated before finance items but after the is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary.
The Groups net beneficial Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
amortisation of the discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributable to equity interest is therefore 53 per cent, net of amounts attributable to outside equity accounted units include interest charges and amortisation of discount.
attributed to business units exclude amounts that are excluded in arriving at f Includes Rio Tintos 75.7 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, which is managed by Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, uranium, gold, Underlying earnings.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
b Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the g Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Aluminum 100 per cent and Anglesey industrial minerals borax, titanium dioxide, salt, talc, and iron ore. Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units.
c Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets before deducting net debt, h Under the terms of a joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent Activities span the world but are strongly represented in Australia and less outside shareholders interests which are calculated by reference to the net of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments assets of the relevant companies i. e. net of such companies debt.
For equity of the Grasberg facilities since 1998.
North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe accounted units, Rio Tintos net investment is shown.
i Diamonds includes Rio Tintos interests in Argyle 100 per cent, Diavik 60 per d Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals cent and Murowa 77.8 per cent.
of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less j Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Borax 100 per cent, Dampier Salt and Africa.
disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of 68.4 per cent and Luzenac Talc 100 per cent.
subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
Amounts relating to equity accounted units not specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted before arriving at total capital The Groups objective is to maximise its value and the long term return expenditure for the Group.
to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, cost competitive mines and businesses driven by the quality of each opportunity.
1 Rio Tinto 2007 Summary financial statements 2007 Summary financial statements U54359 pp0IFC-pp01.1.
qxd 5 3 08 22:22 Page 1 2007 Summary financial statements The majority of Rio Tinto shareholders choose to receive the Annual report with these Summary financial statements.
The Summary financial statements do not allow as full an understanding of the Group as is provided in the Full financial statements.
The Annual report together with the Full financial statements comply with Australian and UK statutory requirements.
Copies of the Full financial statements may be obtained free of charge from the Companies registrars whose details can be found in Useful addresses on page 136 of the Annual report.
All of Rio Tintos shareholder documents are also available in electronic form.
For further details please visit the Rio Tinto website www.
com Contents 2 Summary financial statements 2 Summary income statement 3 Summary balance sheet 4 Reconciliation with Australian IFRS 4 Net earnings and Underlying earnings 5 Summary cash flow statement 5 Summary financial data in Australian dollars, Sterling and US dollars 6 Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief 7 Independent auditors statement 8 Rio Tinto financial information by business unit Summary financial statements 2 Rio Tinto 2007 Summary financial statements 58661 Summary Text.
qxd 6 3 08 18:54 Page 2 Summary financial statements These Summary financial statements have been extracted from the or S237 3 of the UK Companies Act 1985.
The Summary financial Full financial statements, which have been reported on by the statements do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an auditors, and which will be filed with the United Kingdom Registrar understanding of the results and affairs of the Group and parent of Companies and the Australian Securities and Investments companies as is provided in the Full financial statements.
The auditors report on the Full financial statements is the 2007 Annual report and Full financial statements, may be obtained unqualified and does not contain a statement under either S237 2 from the addresses shown on page 136 of the Annual report.
Summary income statement Years ended 31 December 2007 2006 US$m US$m Gross sales revenue including share of equity accounted units a 33,518 25,440 Consolidated sales revenue 29,700 22,465 Net operating costs excluding line items shown separately 20,750 13,650 Impairment charges reversals 58 396 Exploration and evaluation costs b 321 237 Operating profit 8,571 8,974 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,584 1,378 Profit before finance items and taxation 10,155 10,352 Finance items Net exchange gains on external net debt and intragroup balances 194 46 Net gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 57 35 Interest receivable and similar income 134 106 Interest payable and similar charges 538 160 Amortisation of discount 166 139 319 112 Profit before taxation 9,836 10,240 Taxation 2,090 2,373 Profit for the year 7,746 7,867 attributable to outside equity shareholders 434 429 attributable to equity shareholders of Rio Tinto Net earnings 7,312 7,438 Basic earnings per ordinary share c 568.7c 557.8c Diluted earnings per ordinary share 566.3c 555.6c Dividends paid during the year US$m 1,507 2,573 Dividends per share: paid during the year regular dividends 116.0c 81.5c special dividend 110.0c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year final dividends 84.0c 64.0c a Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units of c For the purposes of calculating basic earnings per share, the weighted average US$3,818 million 2006: US$2,975 million in addition to Consolidated sales number of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding during the year revenue, which relates only to subsidiary companies and jointly controlled assets.
was 1,285.8 million 2006: 1,333.4 million, being the average number of Rio b Exploration and evaluation costs are stated net of gains on disposal of Tinto plc shares outstanding of 1,000.1 million 2006: 1,047.7 million, plus the undeveloped properties totalling US$253 million 2006: US$46 million.
average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding not held by Rio Tinto plc of 285.7 million 2006: 285.7 million.
3 Rio Tinto 2007 Summary financial statements Summary balance sheet U54359 1010. qxd 5 3 08 22:17 Page 3 Summary balance sheet At 31 December 2007 2006 US$m US$m Non current assets Goodwill 15,497 841 Intangible assets 7,910 384 Property, plant and equipment 45,647 22,207 Investments in equity accounted units 7,038 2,235 Loans to equity accounted units 245 136 Inventories 178 99 Trade and other receivables 1,862 983 Deferred tax assets 585 225 Tax recoverable 6 135 Other financial assets 580 374 79,548 27,619 Current assets Inventories 5,382 2,540 Trade and other receivables 6,479 2,938 Assets held for sale 7,024 Loans to equity accounted units 117 15 Tax recoverable 250 79 Other financial assets 946 567 Cash and cash equivalents 1,645 736 21,843 6,875 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts repayable on demand 104 14 Borrowings 8,109 1,490 Trade and other payables 6,667 2,693 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2,632 Other financial liabilities 878 193 Tax payable 494 1,024 Provisions 783 366 19,667 5,780 Net current assets 2,176 1,095 Non current liabilities Borrowings 38,614 2,007 Trade and other payables 503 362 Other financial liabilities 496 233 Tax payable 66 86 Deferred tax liabilities 6,486 2,339 Provision for post retirement benefits 3,195 770 Other provisions 6,040 3,532 55,400 9,329 Net assets 26,324 19,385 Equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders 24,772 18,232 Attributable to outside equity shareholders 1,552 1,153 Total equity 26,324 19,385 At 31 December 2007, Rio Tinto plc had 997.2 million ordinary shares in issue and Rio Tinto Limited had 285.7 million shares in issue, excluding those held by Rio Tinto plc.
The 2007 Full financial statements were approved by the directors on 5 March 2008 and signed on their behalf by Paul Skinner Tom Albanese Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Finance director Reconciliation with Australian IFRS 4 Rio Tinto 2007 Summary financial statements U54359 1010. qxd 5 3 08 22:17 Page 4 Reconciliation with Australian IFRS The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance transition to EU IFRS set out in IFRS 1.
acquisitions prior to 1998, which was eliminated directly against Save for the exception described above, the Groups financial equity in the Groups UK GAAP financial statements, has not been statements drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS are consistent reinstated.
This was permitted under the rules governing the with the requirements of Australian IFRS.
Net earnings and Underlying earnings 2007 2006 US$m US$m Underlying earnings 7,443 7,338 Items excluded from Underlying earnings Profits less losses on disposal of interests in businesses a 1 3 Impairment charges reversals b 113 44 Exchange differences and derivatives: Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances c 156 14 Gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting d, e 34 30 Other exclusions f 209 37 Net earnings 7,312 7,438 Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations.
Other charges excluded from Underlying c Exchange gains and losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances.
This earnings, in 2007, primarily resulted from the acquisition of Alcan.
These include includes amounts relating to equity accounted units.
the non-recurring impact on income of US$146 million after taxation of d Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives which are ineligible revaluing inventories on acquisition based on selling price, together with for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts.
5 Rio Tinto 2007 Summary financial statements Summary cash flow statement U54359 1010. qxd 5 3 08 22:17 Page 5 Summary cash flow statement Years ended 31 December 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cash flow from consolidated operations 10,805 9,196 Dividends from equity accounted units 1,764 1,727 Cash flow from operations 12,569 10,923 Net interest paid 489 128 Dividends paid to outside shareholders 168 193 Tax paid 3,421 2,799 Cash flow from operating activities 8,491 7,803 Cash used in investing activities Net acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 37,526 279 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 5,000 3,992 Sales of financial assets 49 293 Purchases of financial assets 273 167 Other investing cash flows 8 56 Cash used in investing activities 42,742 4,089 Cash flow before financing activities 34,251 3,714 Financing activities Equity dividends paid to Rio Tinto shareholders 1,507 2,573 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders 1,624 2,370 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares in Rio Tinto 13 31 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares in subsidiaries to outside shareholders 37 52 Draw down less repayments of net debt 37,332 1,146 34,251 3,714 Summary financial data in Australian dollars, Sterling and US dollars 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 A$m A$m m m US$m US$m 39,957 33,810 16,741 13,818 Gross sales revenue 33,518 25,440 35,405 29,856 14,834 12,203 Consolidated sales revenue 29,700 22,465 11,725 13,609 4,913 5,562 Profit before taxation 9,836 10,240 9,234 10,455 3,869 4,273 Profit for the year 7,746 7,867 Net earnings attributable to 8,717 9,885 3,652 4,040 shareholders of Rio Tinto 7,312 7,438 8,873 9,752 3,718 3,986 Underlying earnings a 7,443 7,338 677.9c 741.3c 284.0p 303.0p Basic earnings per ordinary share c 568.7c 557.8c 690.1c 731.3c 289.1p 298.9p Basic underlying earnings per ordinary share a, c 578.9c 550.3c Dividends per share to Rio Tinto shareholders 143.53c 107.34c 58.22p 44.77p paid regular 116.0c 81.5c 145.42c 61.89p paid special 110.0c 93.02c 82.84c 43.13p 32.63p proposed final dividend 84.0c 64.0c 40,830 4,936 17,107 2,017 Cash flow before financing activities 34,251 3,714 51,426 3,084 22,683 1,241 Net debt 45,152 2,437 28,214 23,069 12,444 9,283 Equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders 24,772 18,232 a Underlying earnings exclude charges totalling US$131 million 2006: credits of c Basic earnings per ordinary share and basic underlying earnings per ordinary US$100 million, which are analysed on page 4. share do not recognise the dilution resulting from share options in issue.
b The financial data above has been extracted from the summary financial statements.
The Australian dollar and Sterling amounts are based on the US dollar amounts, retranslated at average or closing rates as appropriate, except for the dividends which are the actual amounts payable.
Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief 6 Rio Tinto 2007 Summary financial statements U54359 1010. qxd 5 3 08 22:17 Page 6 Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Corporations that the consolidated entity for those purposes is the Group, except Act, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued that the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare a separate an order dated 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006 Remuneration report that is merely cross-referenced in the Directors that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from certain requirements of report, instead of including in the Directors report the the Corporations Act in relation to the Companys financial Remuneration report otherwise required by the Corporations Act.
The order essentially continues The separate Remuneration report see pages 103 to 117 of the the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since the formation Annual report must include all the information required to be of the Groups Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in 1995.
The included in a remuneration report under the Corporations Act, as order applied to Rio Tinto Limiteds financial reporting obligations well as the information required by AIFRS namely, AASB 124 for financial years and half-years ending between 31 December Related Party Disclosures dealing with compensation of directors 2005 and 31 December 2009 inclusive.
and executives who are key management personnel, and certain In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act other disclosures.
financial statements including any concise financial statements, In addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be the auditors report and the directors report.
The separate prepared: Remuneration report is also required to be lodged with the in accordance with the principles and requirements of Australian Securities and Investments Commission at the same time International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the as the consolidated financial statements, and Rio Tinto Limited must European Union EU IFRS rather than the Australian not distribute or make available the Remuneration report without equivalents of International Financial Reporting Standards the consolidated financial statements and directors report.
At the AIFRS except for one limited instance in the case of any Companys AGM, it is required to allow shareholders to vote on a concise report, and in accordance with United Kingdom financial non binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration report, on the reporting obligations generally: same basis as would otherwise be required for a Remuneration on the basis that the transitional provisions of International report under the Corporations Act.
Those financial statements other, and meaning that the existing carrying amounts, rather are not required to be laid before the Companys AGM or distributed than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the time of the DLC to shareholders as a matter of course.
merger were used to measure those assets and liabilities at However, Rio Tinto Limited must: formation : include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single a note, Rio Tinto Limiteds parent entity balance sheet, income company with their respective shareholders being the statement, statement of changes in equity and statement of shareholders in that single company : and cashflows, prepared in accordance with AIFRS: and with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AIFRS, of the following make available the full parent entity financial statements free of amounts: consolidated profit for the financial year, total charge to shareholders on request, and also include a copy of consolidated recognised income for the financial year and total them on the Companys website.
consolidated equity at the end of the financial year see page 4.
content requirements of the Corporations Act applied on the basis 7 Rio Tinto 2007 Summary financial statements Independent auditors statement U54359 1010. qxd 5 3 08 22:17 Page 7 Independent auditors statement To the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and Investments Commission order dated 27 January 2006 as We have examined the summary financial statements of the amended on 22 December 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Group, which comprise the Summary income statement, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept the Summary balance sheet, the Summary cash flow statement, or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the Reconciliation with Australian IFRS, the note on Net earnings person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it and Underlying earnings, the financial information by business may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in unit and the Remuneration report set out on pages 103 to 117 of writing.
the accompanying Annual report the 2007 Summary financial statements.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by The directors are responsible for preparing the 2007 Summary the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
report on the Rio Tinto Groups full annual financial statements Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial consistency of the 2007 Summary financial statements with the statements and the Remuneration report.
Full financial statements and the Remuneration report set out in the Annual report and its compliance with the relevant Opinion requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies In our opinion the 2007 Summary financial statements are Act 1985 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 consistent with the Full financial statements and the as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Remuneration report of the Rio Tinto Group for the year ended 31 Commission order dated 27 January 2006 as amended on December 2007 and comply with the applicable requirements of 22 December 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and We also read the other information contained in the 2007 Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended Summary financial statements and consider the implications for our by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or dated 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006, and material inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
The other information comprises the Summary financial data in Australian dollars, Sterling and US dollars and the note Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief and those sections of  LLP  the Annual report preceding the Shareholder information.
Summary financial Summary financial statements statements Keeping the world moving Keeping the world moving 135 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Definitions and exchange rates U54670 pp132-135 5 3 08 23:47 Page 135 Conversion of weights and measures 1 troy ounce 31.1 grams 1 short ton 2,000 pounds 1 kilogram 32.15 troy ounces 1 long ton 2,240 pounds 1 kilogram 2.2046 pounds 1 gram per metric tonne 0.02917 troy ounces per short ton 1 metric tonne 1,000 kilograms 1 gram per metric tonne 0.03215 troy ounces per metric tonne 1 metric tonne 2,204.6 pounds 1 kilometre 0.6214 miles 1 metric tonne 1.1023 short tons Exchange rates The following tables show, for the periods and dates indicated, certain information regarding the exchange rates for the pound sterling and Australian dollar, based on the Noon Buying Rates for pounds sterling and Australian dollars expressed in US dollars per 1.00 and per A$1.00.
No representation is made that pound sterling and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into dollars at the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any other dates.
Financial calendar 16 January 2008 Fourth quarter 2007 operations review 13 February 2008 Announcement of results for 2007 20 February 2008 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2007 final dividend 22 February 2008 Record date for 2007 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 26 February 2008 Record date for 2007 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 19 March 2008 Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2007 final dividend 11 April 2008 Payment date for 2007 final dividend to holders of Ordinary shares 14 April 2008 Payment date for 2007 final dividend for holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs 16 April 2008 First quarter 2008 operations review 17 April 2008 Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 24 April 2008 Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 16 July 2008 Second quarter 2008 operations review 26 August 2008 Announcement of half year results for 2008 3 September 2008 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2008 interim dividend 5 September 2008 Record date for 2008 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 9 September2008 Record date for 2008 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 11 September 2008 Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2008 interim dividend 2 October 2008 Payment date for 2008 interim dividend to holders of Ordinary shares 3 October 2008 Payment date for 2008 interim dividend for holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs 15 October 2008 Third quarter 2008 operations review January 2009 Fourth quarter 2008 operations review February 2009 Announcement of results for 2008 Useful addresses 136 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Useful addresses Registered offices US investor relations consultant Rio Tinto plc Makinson Cowell US Limited 5 Aldermanbury Square One Penn Plaza London 250 West 34th Street EC2V 7HR Suite 1935 Registered in England No.
com Low cost share dealing service & Rio Tinto Limited Individual Savings Account ISA Level 33 for Rio Tinto plc shareholders only 120 Collins Street Stocktrade Melbourne 81 George Street Victoria 3000 Edinburgh ACN 004 458 404 EH2 3ES Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Low cost share dealing service Facsimile: 61 0 3 9283 3707 Telephone: 44 0 131 240 0101 Website: www.
com UK residents only: 0845 840 1532 Website: www.
co. uk Shareholders Please contact the respective registrar if you Individual Savings Account ISA have any queries about your shareholding.
co. uk Rio Tinto plc Computershare Investor Services PLC Unsolicited mail and telephone calls The Pavilions The Mailing Preference Service Bridgwater Road FREEPOST 29 LON20771 Bristol BS99 6ZY London W1E 0ZT Telephone: 44 0 870 703 6364 Telephone: 0845 703 4599 Facsimile: 44 0 870 703 6119 Website: www.
uk UK residents only, Freephone: 0800 435021 Website: www.
com The Telephone Preference Service 3rd Floor Rio Tinto Limited DMA House Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 70 Margaret Street GPO Box 2975 London W1W 8SS Melbourne Victoria 3001 Telephone: 0845 070 0707 Website: www.
com Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts ADRs Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any queries about your ADRs ADR administrator JPMorgan Chase Bank NA JPMorgan Service Center P O Box 3408 South Hackensack NJ 07606 3408 Telephone: 1 201 680 6630 US residents only Toll free: 800 990 1135 Website: www.
com shareholder e-mail: adr@jpmorgan.
com Rio Tinto Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group headquartered in the UK, combining Rio Tinto plc, a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Annual report Annual report Keeping the world moving Keeping the world moving
