Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Leased assets and assets held under hire Taxation 1.
Accounting policies purchase contracts Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is The financial statements have been Where assets are financed by hire purchase provided at amounts expected to be paid prepared under the historical cost or recovered using the tax rates and laws or leasing agreements that give rights convention as modified by the revaluation that have been enacted or substantively approximating to ownership finance of certain assets and are in accordance with enacted by the balance sheet date.
leases, the assets are treated as if they had applicable UK accounting standards.
The amount following principal accounting policies have Deferred tax is recognised in respect of capitalised is the present value of the been applied: timing differences that have originated but minimum lease payments payable during not reversed at the balance sheet date Goodwill the lease term.
The corresponding leasing where transactions or events that result in Goodwill arising on the acquisition of commitments are shown as amounts an obligation to pay more tax in the future businesses, representing any excess of the payable to the lessor.
Depreciation on the 109 or a right to pay less tax in the future have fair value of the consideration given over relevant assets is charged to the profit and occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing the fair value of the identifiable assets and loss account.
differences are differences between the liabilities acquired is capitalised.
Purchased Companys taxable profits and its results as Lease payments are split between capital goodwill is capitalised and written off on a stated in the financial statements that arise and interest using the actuarial method and straightline basis over its useful economic from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax the interest element is charged to the profit life of up to 20 years.
assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the Valuation of investments All other leases are treated as operating financial statements.
Investments held as fixed assets are stated leases.
Their annual rentals are charged to at cost, less any provision for impairment the profit and loss account on a straight A net deferred tax asset is regarded as in value.
line basis over the lease term.
recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it Tangible fixed assets Foreign currency translation can be regarded as more likely than not that Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or Foreign currency transactions are translated there will be suitable taxable profits from valuation, net of depreciation and any at the rates ruling when they occurred.
which the future reversal of the underlying provision for impairment.
Foreign currency monetary assets and timing differences can be deducted.
liabilities are translated at the rates ruling Depreciation is provided to write off the Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed at the balance sheet date.
cost, less estimated residual values, of all assets are sold and it is more likely than not tangible fixed assets, excluding freehold Pension costs that the taxable gain will be rolled over, land, over their expected useful lives.
Contributions to the Companys defined being charged to tax only if and when the It is calculated at the following rates: contribution pension schemes are charged replacement assets are sold.
to the profit and loss account in the year in Deferred tax is measured at the average Freehold buildings 50 years which they become payable.
tax rates that are expected to apply in the Alterations to periods in which the timing differences are Share based employee remuneration leasehold premises Life of lease expected to reverse, based on tax rates The Company has applied FRS 20 Shareand laws that have been enacted or Motor vehicles 4 years based payment to all share options and substantively enacted by the balance sheet conditional share awards which were Fixtures, fittings, date.
Deferred tax is measured on a nongranted to employees and had not vested IT and equipment 3 to 8 years discounted basis.
A charge is recognised Revaluation of properties on the same basis as that recognised for Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP The Company has taken advantage of the the Group under IFRS 2 see page 104.
In accordance with UITF 32, the assets, transitional arrangements in FRS 15 Where the Company will be issuing shares income and expenditure of the ESOP Trust Tangible Fixed Assets and retained the to satisfy share awards made by its are incorporated into the Company book values of certain freehold properties subsidiaries, the Company records a capital Financial Statements.
that were revalued prior to implementation contribution equal to the fair value of the Financial instruments of that standard.
Where an asset that was share-based payment incurred by its previously revalued is disposed of, its book Disclosures on financial instruments have not subsidiaries except to the extent that the value is eliminated and an appropriate been included in the Companys financial subsidiaries reimburse the Company.
transfer made from the revaluation reserve statements as its consolidated financial to the profit and loss reserve.
