Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32. Credit Risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date, as summarised below: 2007 2006 000s 000s Class of financial asset Cash and cash equivalents 10,884 9,805 Trade and other receivables 110,096 85,418 120,980 95,223 The directors consider the above financial assets that are not impaired to be of good credit quality including those that are past due.
See The directors consider the above financial In respect of trade and other receivables, The credit risk for liquid funds is considered 104 note 12 for further detail on receivables that are past due.
assets that are not impaired to be of good the Group is not exposed to any significant negligible, since the counterparties are credit quality including those that are past credit risk exposure to any single reputable banks with high quality external None of the groups assets are secured by collateral.
See note 13 for further detail on counterparty or any group of credit ratings.
In respect of trade and other receivables, the group is not exposed to any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any receivables that are past due.
None of the Groups financial assets are group of counterparties with similar characteristics.
The credit risk for liquid funds is considered negligible, since the counterparties are reputable banks with high quality external credit ratings.
Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has It should be noted that the Group has not Term Incentive Plan LTIP for Executive recognised an expense to the income relied on the exemption afforded under Directors and other senior directors: the statement representing the fair value of IFRS 1 to exclude instruments granted Performance Share Plan PSP, for senior outstanding equity settled share based before 7 November 2002. managers and staff, and the Share Incentive payment awards to employees which have Plan SIP, available to staff.
Under these Prior to 2004, the Group granted options not vested as at 1 January 2007 for the arrangements shares are granted at no cost and super options to employees under the period ended 31 December 2007. to the employee.
The release of shares Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS granted under the LTIP and PSP are subject The Group has calculated the fair market and Save as You Earn SAYE scheme.
to the satisfaction of corporate value of options using a binomial model Under the ESOS, share options are granted performance conditions and continuity of and for whole share awards the fair value at the market price on the date of grant employment provisions.
The release of has been based on the market value of with the exercise of options subject to the shares under the SIP are subject to the shares at the date of grant adjusted satisfaction of corporate performance continuity of employment provisions.
to take into account some of the terms conditions and continuity of employment and conditions upon which the shares provisions.
For SAYE options, share options The following tables set out details of share were granted.
are granted at the market price on the date schemes activity over the year from of grant.
Employees can exercise the SAYE 1 January 2007: Those fair values were charged to the option at the end of their savings contract.
income statement over the relevant vesting period adjusted to reflect actual and Since 2004 the Group has incentivised and expected vesting levels.
motivated employees through the grant of conditional share awards under the Long RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 33.
