Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies c Foreign currency d Property, plant and equipment RPS Group Plc the Company is a i Foreign currency transactions company domiciled in England.
The i Owned assets Transactions in foreign currency are consolidated financial statements of the translated at the foreign exchange rate Items of property, plant and equipment Company for the year ended 31 December ruling at the date of the transaction.
are stated at cost or deemed cost less 2007 comprises the Company and its Monetary assets and liabilities denominated accumulated depreciation see below and subsidiaries together referred to as in foreign currencies at the balance sheet impairment losses see accounting policy h. the Group.
date are translated to pounds sterling at Certain items of property, plant and The consolidated financial statements were the foreign exchange rate ruling at that equipment that had been revalued to fair authorised for issuance on 5 March 2008. date.
Foreign exchange differences arising value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the on translation are recognised in income.
a Basis of preparation date of transition to IFRS, are measured on 71 the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued ii Financial statements of foreign operations The Group has prepared its annual financial amount at the date of that revaluation, an statements in accordance with International The assets and liabilities of foreign exemption allowed under IFRS 1.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as operations, including goodwill and fair value endorsed by the European Union and adjustments arising on consolidation, are ii Leased assets implemented in the UK.
The financial translated to pounds sterling at the Leases which contain terms whereby the statements are presented in pounds exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet Group assumes substantially all the risks sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The revenues and expenses of foreign and rewards incidental to ownership of the operations are translated to pounds sterling IFRS 7, Financial Instruments and leased item are classified as finance leases.
at rates approximating the foreign exchange Disclosures and the complementary Assets acquired under a finance lease are rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of capitalised at the inception of the lease at Foreign exchange differences arising on financial statements - capital disclosures fair value of the leased assets, or if lower, retranslation are recognised directly in the have been adopted for this accounting the present value of the minimum translation reserve.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures lease payments.
This iii Net investment in foreign operations The land and buildings elements of standard does not have any impact on the Exchange differences arising from the property leases are considered separately classification and valuation of the Groups translation of the net investment in foreign for the purposes of lease classification.
operations are taken to translation reserve.
Obligations under finance leases are The accounting policies set out below They are recycled and taken to income included in liabilities net of finance costs have been applied consistently to all upon disposal of the operation.
The allocated to future periods.
periods presented in these consolidated Company has elected, in accordance with All other leases are classified as operating financial statements.
IFRS 1, that in respect of all foreign leases and are not capitalised.
operations, any differences that have arisen b Basis of consolidation before 1 January 2004 have been set Lease payments are accounted for as Subsidiaries are entities controlled by to zero.
described in accounting policy note o. the Company.
Control exists when the iv Foreign currency forward contracts iii Subsequent costs Company has the power, directly or Foreign currency forward contracts are The Group recognises in the carrying indirectly, to govern the financial and initially recognised at nil value, being pricedamount of an item of property, plant and operating policies of an entity so as to at-the-money at origination.
Subsequently equipment the cost of replacing part of obtain benefits from its activities.
they are measured at fair value determined such an item when that cost is incurred if it The Groups consolidated financial by price changes in the underlying forward is probable that the future economic statements incorporate the financial rate, the interest rate, the time to expiration benefits embodied within the item will flow statements of the Company together with of the contract and the amount of foreign to the Group and the cost of the item can those of subsidiaries from the date control currency specified in the contract.
All other costs are commences to the date that control ceases.
recognised in the income statement Changes in fair value are recognised in Intragroup balances, and any unrealised as incurred.
gains and losses or income and expenses iv Depreciation arising from intragroup transactions, are Depreciation is charged to income on a eliminated in preparing the financial straight-line basis over the estimated useful statements.
lives of each part of an item of property, Accounts consolidated Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued plant and equipment.
Land is not by using appropriate valuation techniques.
the income statement unless the asset is depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are recorded at a revalued amount in which Expenditure on internally generated as follows: case it is treated as a revaluation decrease goodwill and brands is recognised in to the extent that a surplus has previously income as an expense as incurred.
Freehold buildings 50 years iii Subsequent expenditure Impairment losses recognised in respect of Alterations to Subsequent expenditure on capitalised cash generating units are allocated first to leasehold premises Life of lease intangible assets is capitalised only when it reduce the carrying value of goodwill Motor vehicles 4 years increases the future economic benefits allocated to the cash generating unit and embodied in the specific asset to which it then to reduce the carrying amount of the Fixtures, fittings, IT relates.
All other expenditure is expensed other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
and equipment 3 to 8 years as incurred.
Goodwill was tested for impairment at 31 72 e Intangible assets iv Amortisation December 2006 and 31 December 2007. i Goodwill Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on i Calculation of recoverable amount All business combinations are accounted for a straight-line basis from the date that the The recoverable amount is the greater of by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill intangible assets are available for use over the net selling price and value in use.
In has been recognised in acquisitions of their estimated useful lives unless such lives assessing value in use, the estimated future subsidiaries and the business, assets and are indefinite.
The estimated useful lives of cash flows are discounted to their present liabilities of partnerships.
The Board has the Groups intangible assets range value using a pre-tax discount rate that elected, in accordance with IFRS 1, that the between 4 and 9 years.
reflects current market assessments of the date from which it applies IFRS 3 shall be 26 time value of money and the risks specific f Trade and other receivables June 2002.
In respect of business to the asset.
combinations that have occurred since that Trade and other receivables are stated date, goodwill represents the difference at their cost less impairment losses see ii Reversals of impairment between the cost of the acquisition and the accounting policy h. Trade and other An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is fair value of the identifiable assets acquired.
receivables are subject to impairment not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an tests whenever events or changes in In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, impairment loss is reversed if there has circumstances indicate that their carrying goodwill is included on the basis of its been a change in the estimates used to amount may not be recoverable.
deemed cost, which represents the amount determine the recoverable amount.
An Impairment losses are taken to the recorded under previous GAAP.
The impairment loss is reversed only to the income statement as incurred.
classification and accounting treatment of extent that the assets carrying amount business combinations that occurred prior does not exceed the carrying amount that g Cash and cash equivalents to 26 June 2002 has not been restated in would have been determined, net of Cash at bank comprises cash balances and preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance depreciation or amortisation, if no call deposits with an original maturity of sheet at 1 January 2004, in accordance impairment loss had been recognised.
Bank overdrafts that with IFRS.
1. are repayable on demand and form an i Employee benefits Goodwill is stated at cost less any integral part of the Groups cash i Defined contribution plans accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is management are included as a component allocated to cash-generating units and is Obligations for contributions to defined of cash and cash equivalents for the tested annually for impairment see contribution retirement benefit plans are purposes of the statement of cash flows.
accounting policy h. recognised as an expense in the income h Impairment statement as incurred.
ii Other intangible assets The carrying amount of the Groups assets, ii Share-based payment transactions Intangible assets other than goodwill that are other than deferred tax assets, are acquired by the Group are stated at cost The Group operates a range of equity reviewed at each balance sheet date to less accumulated amortisation see below settled share option and conditional share determine whether there is any indication and impairment losses see accounting policy award schemes for employees.
If any such indication exists, h. The Company has applied IFRS 2 to all the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Intangible assets identified in a business share options and conditional share awards For goodwill the recoverable amount is combination are capitalised at fair value at which were granted to employees and had estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
the date of acquisition if they are separable not vested as at 1 January 2005.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever from the acquired entity or give rise to The fair value of the employee services the carrying amount of an asset or its cash other contractual legal rights.
The fair values received in exchange for the grant of generating unit exceeds its recoverable ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at options or conditional share awards is amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 recognised as an expense to the income the balance sheet date.
No revenue is j Provisions statement.
Fair value has been determined recognised if there are significant A provision is recognised in the balance uncertainties regarding recovery of the by using IFRS accepted valuation sheet when the Group has a present legal or consideration due or associated costs.
The amount constructive obligation as a result of a past expected loss on a contract is recognised expensed to the income statement over the event and it is probable that an outflow of immediately in the income statement.
vesting period is determined by reference economic benefits will be required to settle to the fair value of the options and the obligation.
If the effect is material, Revenue includes expenses recharged to conditional share awards, excluding the provisions are determined by discounting the clients.
Such expenses include mileage, impact of any non-market vesting expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate accommodation, planning applications, conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions that reflects current market assessments of counsels fees and fees from sub-consultants the time value of money and, when charged on at low margin.
are included in assumptions about the appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
number of options and conditional share Revenue which has been recognised but 73 awards that are expected to vest.
At each A provision for onerous contracts is not invoiced by the balance sheet date is balance sheet date the Group revises its recognised when the expected benefits to included in trade and other receivables in estimates of the number of options and be derived by the Group from a contract accrued income.
Amounts invoiced in conditional share awards that are expected are lower than the unavoidable cost of advance are included in trade and other to vest.
The impact of the revision of original meeting its obligations under the contract.
estimates, if any, is recognised in the income k Trade and other payables o Expenses statement, with a corresponding adjustment Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
to equity, over the remaining vesting period.
i Operating lease payments No adjustment is made for failure to Payments made under operating leases are l Borrowings achieve market vesting conditions.
recognised in the income statement on a Bank overdrafts and interest bearing loans straight-line basis over the term of the The fair value of options granted under the are initially measured at fair value and then lease.
Lease incentives received are Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS held at amortised cost.
Obligations under recognised as an integral part and Save As You Earn SAYE scheme finance leases are dealt with in accordance of the total lease expense.
have been calculated using a binomial model with accounting policy note o. taking into account the following inputs: ii Finance lease payments m Deferred consideration the exercise price of the option: Minimum lease payments are apportioned Deferred consideration arises when between the finance charge and the the life of the option: settlement of all or any part of the cost reduction of the outstanding liability.
The of a business combination is deferred.
the market price on the date of grant finance charge is allocated to each period It is stated at fair value at the date of of the option: during the lease term so as to produce a acquisition, which is determined by the expected volatility of the share constant periodic rate of interest on the discounting the amount due to present price: remaining balance of the liability.
Interest is imputed on the dividends expected on the shares: the fair value of non interest bearing iii Interest payable and similar charges deferred consideration at the discount rate and Finance costs comprise interest payable on and expensed within interest payable and the risk free interest rate for the life of bank overdrafts and loans, interest imputed similar charges.
At each balance sheet date the option.
on deferred consideration see accounting deferred consideration comprises the policy m and interest on finance leases.
The fair value of conditional share awards remaining deferred consideration valued at have been calculated using the market value acquisition plus interest imputed on such iv Interest receivable amounts from acquisition to the balance of the shares on the date of grant adjusted Finance income comprises interest sheet date.
for any non-entitlement to dividends over receivable on funds invested.
the vesting period and market based Where deferred consideration is in the performance conditions such as total form of shares and the number of shares to p Income tax shareholder return.
be issued is fixed, the fair value is credited Income tax on the income for the periods to equity under the heading Shares to presented comprises current and deferred iii Accrued holiday pay be issued.
Income tax is recognised in income Provision is made at each balance sheet except to the extent that it relates to items n Revenue date for holidays accrued but not taken, to recognised directly in equity, in which case it the extent that they may be carried Revenue from services rendered is is recognised in equity.
forward, calculated at the salary of the recognised in income in proportion to the relevant employee at that date.
stage of completion of the transaction at Current tax is the expected tax payable on Accounts consolidated Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued the taxable income for the year, using tax interim dividends to equity shareholders, impairment reviews of goodwill.
rates enacted or substantially enacted at this is when declared by the directors.
Judgements in respect of discount and the balance sheet date, and any adjustment In the case of final dividends, this is when growth rates are made in respect of these to tax payable in respect of previous years.
approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
These judgements are shown in note 10.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance r Employee Share Ownership sheet liability method, providing for Plan ESOP iii Revenue recognition temporary differences between the carrying As the Company is deemed to have The Groups revenue recognition policy is amounts of assets and liabilities for financial control of its ESOP trust, it is treated as a stated in accounting policy note n. In reporting purposes and the amounts used subsidiary and consolidated for the purpose some cases, judgement is required to for taxation purposes.
The following of the Group accounts.
The ESOPs assets determine the appropriate proportion of temporary differences are not provided for: the services performed to date on the other than investments in the Companys 74 goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the contract and the extent to which fees will shares, liabilities, income and expenses are initial recognition of assets or liabilities that included on a line-by-line basis in the be recoverable.
Actual results could differ affect neither accounting nor taxable profit Group financial statements.
The ESOPs from these estimates.
and the differences relating to investments investment in the Companys shares is Any subsequent changes are accounted for in subsidiaries to the extent that they will deducted from shareholders funds in the with an effect on income at the time such probably not reverse in the foreseeable Group balance sheet as if they were updated information becomes available.
In accordance with IAS12, deferred treasury shares, except that profits on the tax is taken directly to equity to the extent sale of ESOP shares are not credited to the t Accounting standards issued that the intrinsic value of the outstanding share premium account.
but not adopted share awards based on the closing share During the year, the IASB and the IFRIC price is greater than the share based s Key accounting estimates issued additional standards and payment expense already charged to the and judgements interpretations which are effective for income statement.
The amount of deferred In the process of applying the Groups periods starting after the date of these tax provided is based on the expected accounting policies described above, financial statements.
The following standards manner of realisation or settlement of the management has made the following and interpretations have yet to be adopted carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using judgements, which have the most significant by the Group: tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at effect on the amounts recognised in the the balance sheet date.
Any other estimates or judgements are made as described in the A deferred tax asset is recognised only to IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
the extent that it is probable that future IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury taxable profits will be available against Share transactions.
i Intangible assets which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred As described in accounting policy e IFRIC 12 Service Concession tax assets are reduced to the extent that it above, the Group recognises certain Arrangements.
is no longer probable that the related tax intangible assets on acquisition other than benefit will be realised.
Judgements are made in respect Programmes.
Additional income taxes that arise from the of useful lives and valuation methods distribution of dividends are recognised at IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined affecting the carrying value and the same time as the liability to pay the benefit asset, minimum funding amortisation charges in respect of related dividend.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of q Dividends ii Goodwill these standards and interpretations will have Dividends are recognised when they As described in accounting policy e no material impact upon the results or net become legally payable.
In the case of above, the Group undertakes annual assets of the Group other than disclosure.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007
