Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies c Foreign currency d Property, plant and equipment RPS Group Plc the Company is a i Foreign currency transactions company domiciled in England.
The i Owned assets Transactions in foreign currency are consolidated financial statements of the translated at the foreign exchange rate Items of property, plant and equipment Company for the year ended 31 December ruling at the date of the transaction.
are stated at cost or deemed cost less 2007 comprises the Company and its Monetary assets and liabilities denominated accumulated depreciation see below and subsidiaries together referred to as in foreign currencies at the balance sheet impairment losses see accounting policy h. the Group.
date are translated to pounds sterling at Certain items of property, plant and The consolidated financial statements were the foreign exchange rate ruling at that equipment that had been revalued to fair authorised for issuance on 5 March 2008. date.
Foreign exchange differences arising value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the on translation are recognised in income.
a Basis of preparation date of transition to IFRS, are measured on 71 the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued ii Financial statements of foreign operations The Group has prepared its annual financial amount at the date of that revaluation, an statements in accordance with International The assets and liabilities of foreign exemption allowed under IFRS 1.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as operations, including goodwill and fair value endorsed by the European Union and adjustments arising on consolidation, are ii Leased assets implemented in the UK.
The financial translated to pounds sterling at the Leases which contain terms whereby the statements are presented in pounds exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet Group assumes substantially all the risks sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The revenues and expenses of foreign and rewards incidental to ownership of the operations are translated to pounds sterling IFRS 7, Financial Instruments and leased item are classified as finance leases.
at rates approximating the foreign exchange Disclosures and the complementary Assets acquired under a finance lease are rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of capitalised at the inception of the lease at Foreign exchange differences arising on financial statements - capital disclosures fair value of the leased assets, or if lower, retranslation are recognised directly in the have been adopted for this accounting the present value of the minimum translation reserve.
IFRS 7 introduces new disclosures lease payments.
This iii Net investment in foreign operations The land and buildings elements of standard does not have any impact on the Exchange differences arising from the property leases are considered separately classification and valuation of the Groups translation of the net investment in foreign for the purposes of lease classification.
operations are taken to translation reserve.
Obligations under finance leases are The accounting policies set out below They are recycled and taken to income included in liabilities net of finance costs have been applied consistently to all upon disposal of the operation.
The allocated to future periods.
periods presented in these consolidated Company has elected, in accordance with All other leases are classified as operating financial statements.
IFRS 1, that in respect of all foreign leases and are not capitalised.
operations, any differences that have arisen b Basis of consolidation before 1 January 2004 have been set Lease payments are accounted for as Subsidiaries are entities controlled by to zero.
described in accounting policy note o. the Company.
Control exists when the iv Foreign currency forward contracts iii Subsequent costs Company has the power, directly or Foreign currency forward contracts are The Group recognises in the carrying indirectly, to govern the financial and initially recognised at nil value, being pricedamount of an item of property, plant and operating policies of an entity so as to at-the-money at origination.
Subsequently equipment the cost of replacing part of obtain benefits from its activities.
they are measured at fair value determined such an item when that cost is incurred if it The Groups consolidated financial by price changes in the underlying forward is probable that the future economic statements incorporate the financial rate, the interest rate, the time to expiration benefits embodied within the item will flow statements of the Company together with of the contract and the amount of foreign to the Group and the cost of the item can those of subsidiaries from the date control currency specified in the contract.
All other costs are commences to the date that control ceases.
recognised in the income statement Changes in fair value are recognised in Intragroup balances, and any unrealised as incurred.
gains and losses or income and expenses iv Depreciation arising from intragroup transactions, are Depreciation is charged to income on a eliminated in preparing the financial straight-line basis over the estimated useful statements.
lives of each part of an item of property, Accounts consolidated
