Operations 11 Key Business Drivers the necessity to comply with 2007 was the first year that the world legislation which relates to planning, took seriously the need to do something As a business to business support service environmental and health and safety about the interconnected problems of: company we assist our clients in matters: this regulation and legislation responding to the opportunities and climate change and the need to derives from the activities of both the problems which they face.
These arise from: reduce carbon emissions: and European Union and the national the commercial advantage to be sourcing safe and secure energy Governments and continues to gained by developing or redeveloping supplies to enable global economic expand at a rapid pace: and land, other natural resources such as growth to continue.
the need to manage and, where minerals and oil and gas, or buildings: RPS skills and experience place us in a possible, eliminate risk which may arise this requires proper planning, design strong position to be able to benefit from from environmental or health and and evaluation of the potential effects the actions that will be taken to deal with safety issues: potential risks arise when, of the proposed development: these fundamental problems.
This for example, assets are being the necessity for public agencies, underpins our long term growth.
purchased and or developed or from privatised utilities, regulated businesses the existence of substances which, if and their agents to provide adequate not properly disposed of or managed, infrastructure: again such provision could damage the natural requires proper planning, design, environment or human health.
evaluation of environmental effects and risk management: Employees annual budgets.
We have all the the Company providing one matching traditional personnel management share for every employee purchased The Group remains committed to structures within our business carrying share.
The PSP is available to senior creating an employment environment out all the necessary administrative members of staff and enables them to which will attract, retain and motivate functions.
There are able personnel build significant equity participation over employees of high calibre.
Throughout management groups dealing with a period of years.
the Group emphasis is placed upon staffing issues in each country within personal development to meet both which we operate.
todays needs and those of the future.
Employee communication and The employees of the Group are consultation is encouraged at all levels able to participate in the success of the of the business.
The criteria for Company through the Companys selection and promotion are the Share Incentive Plan SIP and Share individuals suitability for the position Purchase Plan SPP and Performance offered based on their qualifications, Share Plan PSP.
The SIP and SPP are experience, skills and abilities.
Business open to the majority of Group units manage the remuneration of staff employees and offers them the within the guidelines of the approved opportunity of purchasing shares with Business Review Operations continued 12 Operating Structure supported by centrally run accountancy our working environment is sympathetic and personnel functions, with these to all employees.
A significant part of the Groups success services being provided locally in Ireland derives from the clarity and accountability Advice is available to all employees and the Netherlands.
The offices in of its management structure.
The core of involved in employment decisions, Australia, USA, Canada, Malaysia and this structure is the individual business unit particularly in respect of promotion, Singapore are managed as part of the which normally comprises a separate transfer, training and discipline, as well as Energy division, but have local accounting office or activity, each of which is treated all stages of recruitment and selection.
separately for the purposes of budgeting RPS' policy on equal opportunities and accounting.
From time to time Equal Opportunities in Employment covers all areas of discrimination.
We seek business units are grouped into either RPS provides equal opportunities for all its to comply with relevant legislation in all functional or geographical areas.
This employees and potential employees the countries in which we operate.
organisation is capable of delivering and regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, Training and Continuous managing significantly more organic and religion or beliefs, marital status, civil Professional Development acquired growth.
partnership status, race, ethnic origin, RPS is committed to the training, education The Group provides support to the colour, nationality and national origins, and development of its employees to marketing functions of these businesses disability or age.
The policy applies to the increase effectiveness, develop potential and through its business information unit which advertisement of jobs, recruitment and ensure adequate succession planning.
RPS is also responsible for the Group website appointment, training, conditions of work, was named as one of Britain's Top and intranet.
We continued to make pay and to every aspect of employment.
Employers 2008 by the Corporate Research significant investments in the intranet and We recognise our obligations to ensure Foundation.
The CRF report, published in website during 2007 as they are the main that people with disabilities are afforded March 2008 by Guardian Books, singled out mechanism we use to develop internal and equal opportunities to employment and the Company's approach to knowledge external communications in the Group.
In progress within the Group.
management and staff training as important order to do this we also continued to We deplore all forms of sexual and factors in its high ranking in the UK's top 20 upgrade our IT networks.
The businesses racial harassment and seek to ensure that employers of choice.
in England, Wales and Scotland are RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 13 Business unit Directors and their were encouraged to attain membership Company policy and procedures, which appointed project managers and full-time and ongoing accreditation with these covers topics including safety or equipment professional trainers are responsible for bodies and in pursuit of this aim staff handling and involves assessments of the management of training and for the attended relevant courses, seminars and competency on a more administrative level.
verification of technical competence for conferences.
Staff appraisal is a continuous process and is project personnel, in accordance with our not limited to formal meetings.
However Support was also given to quality management system.
formal appraisal meetings take place in many undergraduates undertaking studies parts of the Group at least once a year.
We aim to identify and provide relevant to RPS business in Australia at training, education and development for selected institutions.
Senior RPS technical RPS is a recognised commercial training employees, in order that they can develop staff were invited to act as technical provider in a number of specific technical and apply this knowledge to greater and mentors to students completing their fields and is certified by such external more demanding roles in the future.
applied science projects, theses and bodies as CCNSG ECITB on site safety Wherever possible we try to identify Masters studies.
RPS operates a CIWEM approved successors to key posts within the postgraduate students then worked with structured training scheme for its chartered organisation as part of our ongoing RPS during University vacations with a view water and environmental engineers and succession management policy.
All to taking up full-time employment with RPS MICE and MIEI approved CPD schemes for externally advertised posts are first upon completion of their studies.
civil engineers in the UK and Ireland.
Our published on the JoinRPS.
com careers aim is to help the development of Appraisals are intended to complement website which is promoted internally via individuals throughout their employment the standard staff induction programme on the Group's Intranet.
Central to identifying with the Company, by underpinning the our training and educational needs is staff strengthening skills and professional ethics, Group whilst broadening their business knowledge.
This activity is concerned with 2007 2006 One of the key objectives of the scheme is developing staff by identifying and meeting Average number of employees the long-term commitment to CPD of all performance and training needs as well as Average number of employees 4,093 3,438 existing staff within the organisation.
Days absent % 1.1 1.4 individuals are always able to demonstrate RPS in Australia provided support and Average length of service years 3.7 5.0 technical experience in specific sectors, such assistance to staff with general inductions, Working part time % 8.7 15.4 as the water industry, or in relevant aspects relevant training and continuous professional Retention Rate % 86 of environmental consultancy.
During 2007, Women in addition to in-house training and RPS' industrial architecture and civil All employees % 33.2 29.8 mentoring, RPS provided financial support to engineering practice at Newark has an Ethnic minorities Investors in People accreditation recognising staff seeking to improve their qualifications All employees % 7.0 5.8 its commitment to staff training, internal with course fees and time off work to Age profile communications and client feedback attend relevant college or university courses Employees aged under 25 % 12.4 13.9 dissemination and response.
The scheme not by pre-agreed arrangement.
Employees aged 25-29 % 21.5 19.0 only focuses on the in-house training Ongoing Professional Development Employees aged 30-49 % 48.6 50.2 provision for school leavers and graduate and Training is now a requirement with Employees aged 50 % 17.5 16.9 level CAD technicians, but also on promoting many of the professional bodies of which Pensions best practice at every level of the business.
RPS staff in Australia are members.
Staff Active members 1,978 1,689 Business Review Operations continued 14 Academic Bursaries University of Huddersfield - RPS sponsored bursaries with the For the fifth consecutive year, RPS in the International Diploma in Architecture Planning College at Dublin Institute of UK continued its practice of awarding Technology.
RPS offers prizes to students RPS scholarship programme in Ireland academic bursaries to students studying at in the disciplines of Manufacturing, involves a partnership with leading university.
In 2007, this included students Biomedical and Facilities Engineering with attending courses at thirteen UK universities and three institutes of Cork Institute of Technology and through universities: technology.
The five universities were: the ISA Instrument Society America - Irish Branch jointly through the Cork University of Cambridge Christ's University College, Cork Institute of Technology and the Carlow College, MEng in Civil Engineering & University College, Dublin Institute of Technology.
MEng in Structural Engineering Trinity College, Dublin University of Oxford, Edward Grey RPS has participated in a number of University College, Galway Institute of Field Ornithology PhD in student and graduate training schemes.
Waterfowl in the S. W. London Water These include the Leonardo da Vinci Queens University, Belfast Bodies Special Protection Area scheme LDVII, now part of the European Commission's Mobility and Lifelong RPS in the Netherlands awarded its Oxford Brookes University MSc in Learning Programme.
This is particularly first academic bursary in 2007: Spatial Planning aimed at providing six month work Erasmus University School of University College, Cardiff MSc in placements for students and qualified Business Management, Rotterdam, Regional Town Planning graduates from designated development MBA in Sustainability University of East Anglia BSc in regions of the European Community Environmental Science seeking work experience within leading Australia has awarded academic companies in more developed countries.
Brunel University, School of Engineering bursaries to students attending the & Design EngD in Infrared and Thermal following courses: RPS was the main sponsor of the Imaging of Nocturnal Bird Movements University of Wales 'Students Skills University of Western Australia Masters Competition' at Aberystwyth, a longQueens University, Belfast, MEng in Civil Degree in Petroleum Engineering Engineering running student and employer-twinning Curtin University, Bachelor of event, which is unique in British higher University of Wales, Newport Allt-yrCommerce education.
RPS' long-standing support and yn Campus HND in Business involvement in the event has attracted an Perth Technical College Certificate and Administration and Accounting annual crop of outstanding graduates and Diploma in Accounting University of Loughborough, two postgraduates from various academic University of New South Wales undergraduates studying for an MEng in disciplines into jobs within the Group.
Petroleum Economics Civil Engineering Property University of Nottingham, two RPS provided funding to Masters level The Group occupies 116 commercial office undergraduates studying for an MEng in students to pursue studies in engineering premises.
In respect of 12 of these we own Civil Engineering related disciplines.
RPS sponsors the Gold the freehold.
These had an aggregate net University of Lincoln - BA Architecture Medal for the top Civil Engineering student book value of 9.2m at December 2007.
University of Sheffield - Part 2 at University College Dublin and the The remaining properties are occupied Architecture MArch Centre for Talented Youth programme.
under a range of lease agreements.
The RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 15 total rent paid in 2007 was 5.7m.
The companies acquired both the scale of earnings growth as have enabled us to build strong positions well as the nature and scale of future Growth and Funding in a number of markets and, for example, acquisitions and how that investment is RPS operates in markets which are to create a new business in the energy funded.
The final dividend will normally be generally attractive and expanding with sector.
This, in turn, enables us to offer a greater than the interim payment.
good long-term prospects, but fast broader, higher quality service to our Dividends paid and proposed are detailed changing.
We need, therefore, to keep our clients and attractive employment to staff on page 62. products and services and how we and potential recruits.
The financial market and deliver them under Shareholder Value performance of the companies which have continuous review.
The Board believes that The Board manages the Group in order been acquired has increased the Groups the long-term health and growth of the to achieve good levels of growth in growth.
The Board sees the maintenance Group will be best secured by ensuring shareholder value on a consistent longof this element of the strategy as being of that RPS is, and is perceived by clients and term basis.
The Board, however, recognises importance to the continued growth of staff to be, a market leader in each of our RPS and is prepared to consider more that this can only be achieved by providing business areas.
Our corporate strategy is significant acquisitions, as well as making a competitive service which adds value to designed to achieve this.
acquisitions outside the countries in which our clients organisations and offering an Our financial growth objectives focus we currently operate.
At the year end the attractive working environment and career on profit rather than revenue.
Whilst it is Group had net borrowings of 32.6 prospects to our staff.
Striking this balance tempting to remain in products and million Note 26.
RPS normally generates whilst also respecting our responsibility to markets where margins are falling in order sufficient free cash to fund its working society at large, is the main task facing to maintain revenue, we do not adopt this capital and capital expenditure the Board.
Instead we endeavour to requirements.
Additional cash resources That the Group has continued to find ways of delivering service in more are, therefore, only needed in order to grow over such a long period confirms we attractive ways to clients or if this is pursue the Groups acquisition strategy.
are operating in an attractive sector and not possible scale back or end our From time to time, the Board therefore implementing a good strategy successfully.
involvement in unattractive markets secures funds by means of arranging debt and develop and invest in new, more finance or equity placings.
RPS has had a strong system of The Board believes the Groups The Board is committed to achieving governance in place throughout its current bank facilities, which have recently year on year profit and earnings growth for corporate life.
In recent years we have been increased to 100 million, will enable the Group, but does not set specific targets formalised this in response to the various it to maintain its strategy throughout for this.
We are endeavouring to deliver codes and guidelines that have emerged.
2008, although it is possible that a larger long-term shareholder value and have, The various policies relevant to this are acquisition could necessitate additional therefore, to balance annual earnings growth set out fully on pages 48 to 59.
The Board debt or equity finance.
with investment in both our existing clients, believes that its long-term shareholders staff and products and the development of Dividend Policy understand that RPS operates the highest our product offering and capability.
For a number of years our dividend has grown at an average annual compound The acquisition strategy RPS has rate of about 15%.
Our ability to maintain pursued over the last decade has brought this level of growth will depend upon considerable benefit to shareholders, Business Review 16 RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007
