Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Derivatives and other Foreign currency risk Liquidity risk financial instruments The Group, which is based in the UK and The Group has strong cash flow and the Set out below are the narrative disclosures reports in sterling, has investments in funds generated by operating companies relating to financial instruments.
The overseas operations in the Netherlands, are managed on a country basis.
The Group numerical disclosures are set out in Notes Ireland, USA, Canada and Australia that also considers its long-term funding 30, 31 and 32. have functional currencies other than requirements as part of the annual business sterling.
As a result the Groups balance planning cycle.
Please see note 15 for Financial instruments sheet and income statement can be further detail of the Groups liquidity risk.
The Groups financial assets comprise cash affected by movement in the exchange rate Credit risk and trade and other receivables which are between sterling and the functional categorised as Loans and other The Group is mainly exposed to credit risk currencies of overseas operations.
The most receivables and held at amortised cost.
It is Group policy, 100 important exchange rate as far as the Group is concerned is the pound euro rate.
implemented locally, to assess the credit risk The Groups financial liabilities comprise of new customers before entering bank loans and trade and other payables The Group does not hedge balance sheet contracts.
The Group does not enter into which are categorised as Other financial and income statement translation exposures.
complex derivatives to manage credit risk.
liabilities and held at amortised cost.
The Interest rate risk fair value of the loan is determined by Fair values discounting at the interest rate.
The Group The Group draws down short term loans, The fair value of the financial assets and occasionally uses forward foreign currency that may be renewed, against its revolving liabilities of the Group are considered to be and currency swap contracts to manage credit facility principally in sterling at fixed materially equivalent to their book value.
transactional currency risks arising from the rates of interest for the term of the loan.
The Groups overdraft bears interest at floating rates.
Surplus funds are placed on It is, and has been throughout the period short-term deposit or held within accounts under review, the Groups policy that no bearing interest related to bank base rate.
trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Foreign currency risk and interest rate risk are the most significant aspects for the Group in the area of financial instruments.
It is exposed to a lesser extent to liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007
