DEFINITIONS An explanation of some of the terms and abbreviations used in this Embedded growth annual report is shown below.
The potential volume growth rate that a market possesses as a result of expected trends in demographics and per capita beer Financial definitions consumption.
The embedded growth for a company reflects the portfolio of markets served by the company, weighted by the Adjusted earnings volumes sold in each market.
Adjusting earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings by Net asset value per share adding back exceptional trading losses and deducting exceptional This is calculated by expressing shareholders funds as a percentage trading gains.
of the closing number of shares in issue.
Adjusted profit before tax Clean PBT Net interest cover This is defined as profit before tax and exceptional items and This is the ratio of profit before interest, taxation and exceptional includes the share of post-tax results of associates before items EBIT to net financing costs before exceptional items.
Operating free cash flow CAGR This comprises net cash from operating activities less cash paid for The Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR is the average the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
compounded growth rate recorded over a series of years for a particular metric such as volume or revenue.
Return on equity % This is calculated by expressing adjusted earnings as a percentage Cash operating return % of total shareholders equity.
This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing the sum of EBITDA and cash dividends received from associates and other TSR investments, as a percentage of net operating assets, adjusted for Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the returns that a cumulative goodwill eliminated against shareholders funds previously company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price under UK GAAP and accumulated depreciation and amortisation.
movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Constant currency Volumes Constant currency results have been determined by translating the In the determination and disclosure of reported sales volumes, the local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March at group aggregates the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and its the exchange rates for the comparable period in the prior year.
equity-accounted associates, other than associates where primary responsibility for day-to-day management rests with others such EBITA as Castel and Distell.
In these latter cases, the financial results of This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation operations are equity accounted in terms of IFRS but volumes are of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups excluded.
Although contract brewing volumes are excluded from share of associates operating profit on a similar basis.
total volumes, turnover from contract brewing is included within EBITA margin % group turnover.
This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group revenue including share of associates revenue.
Non-financial definitions EBITDA ACNielsen This comprises the net cash generated from operations before ACNielsen is a leading global provider of marketing research working capital movements.
Its principal clients are retailers and manufacturers EBITDA margin % of fast moving consumer goods FMCGs.
This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing EBITDA BEE as a percentage of revenue excluding share of associates revenue.
The Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act has been Effective tax rate % created by the government in South Africa to help redress the This is calculated by expressing total taxation including share of imbalances in South African society created by apartheid.
The associates tax, excluding tax on exceptional items both group and empowerment process has been identified as being crucial to share of associates and tax on amortisation of intangible assets the future viability of the countrys economy.
excluding software, as a percentage of profit before tax, exceptional CSD items and amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and Carbonated soft drinks such as Coca-Cola, Fanta, Appletiser etc.
including share of operating profit of associates and including their share of net finance costs before tax, minority interest and exceptional items.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Definitions 140 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Non-financial definitions continued Premium segment worthmore segment in the US The premium segment is dominated by international brands.
They Canadean are brands which consumers perceive to offer greater value than Canadean is a global market research and data management mainstream brands and for which they are willing to pay a premium.
company focusing on the international beverage industry and its Mainstream brands are priced at about a price index of 100 and suppliers.
premium brands index at around 120 and above.
As a result, the premium segment, although small in volume terms, often generates Channel marketing a disproportionate level of profit, when compared to the mainstream Channel marketing is a term used to describe the focus of sales and and economy segments.
marketing effort of a brand on a particular style of outlet and towards a specifically identified type of customer.
STRATE STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic and is an Combined Code unlisted company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the Depository Participants CSDP and exists to allow share transactions UK Financial Reporting Council.
in South Africa to be settled electronically.
Economy segment Taking an index where the bulk of the market volume is at a price index of 100, the economy sector would index at around 85.
Normally, all brands in this segment will be local brands.
In the beer market, the economy segment is usually dominated by local brands.
A ready-mixed alcoholic drink, often containing some form of fruit flavouring.
FAB also stands for fruit alcohol beverage which specifically refers to a ready-mixed alcoholic drink containing fruit flavouring as opposed to non-fruit flavouring such as caramel.
Mainstream segment Mainstream represents the group of brands that constitute the bulk of the market volume at a price index of 100.
Key to this group is the leading volume brand in any market.
Mainstream brands tend to be local.
Model Code The securities dealing code contained in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Organic growth Refers to a companys growth rate, excluding any growth from takeovers, acquisitions or mergers.
PET PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
Plato Logic Plato Logic are beer market research specialists, providing a comprehensive range of international beer data to the global brewing and allied industries Definitions SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 141
