NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 Accounting policies The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the groups financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
All International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the IASB and effective at the time of preparing these consolidated financial statements have been adopted for use in the EU through the endorsement procedure established by the European Commission.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described in the accounting policies below.
The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgment in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The financial information for the year ended 31 March 2006 has been restated for further adjustments relating to initial accounting for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations.
Further details of these adjustments are provided in note 28. b Recent accounting developments i Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective during the year ended 31 March 2007.
IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease effective from 1 January 2006 requires the determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease to be based on the substance of the arrangement.
IFRIC 7, Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies effective for periods beginning 1 March 2006 provides guidance in a reporting period in which an entity identifies the existence of hyperinflation in the economy.
IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Amendment, financial guarantee contracts, effective for periods beginning 1 January 2006 require issued financial guarantees to be initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently measured at the higher of the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation and the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Financial guarantee contracts are defined in IAS 39 as contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of a debt instrument for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due.
The adoption of these interpretations and the amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 have not had a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial position of the group.
ii Standards, amendments and interpretations effective during the year ended 31 March 2007 but not relevant.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2006 but they are not relevant to the groups operations: IFRS 1 Amendment, First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 6, Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources IFRIC 5, Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds IFRIC 6, Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment iii Standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the group.
The following standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007 or later periods but that the group has not early adopted: IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective from 1 January 2007, introduces new disclosures to improve the information about financial instruments.
It requires the disclosures of qualitative and quantitative information about exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including specified minimum disclosures about credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, including sensitivity analysis to market risk.
It replaces disclosure requirements in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
The group will apply IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 from annual periods beginning 1 April 2007, and it is not expected to have a material effect on the groups disclosures IFRS 8, Operating Segments, effective from 1 January 2009, requires the amount reported for each operating segment item to be the measure reported to management for the purposes of allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance.
The group does not plan to apply IFRS 8 early, and its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the groups current segmental reporting SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 64 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Note 1 Accounting policies continued c Significant judgements and estimates In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required where the choice of specific policy, assumption or accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net position of the group, should it later be determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
Management considers the following to be areas of significant judgement and estimation for the group: i Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are performed at least annually.
More regular reviews are performed if events indicate that this is necessary.
Details of the estimates used are set out in note 10. ii The determination of the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and related depreciation: capitalisation of costs, estimation of useful economic life and recoverability of such assets.
The estimates in relation to these items are set out in part i to this note.
iii The group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
iv Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order to value our obligations and to determine the charges to be made to the income statement.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 30. v The determination of the carrying amount and estimated useful lives of intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
d Segmental reporting A reportable segment is a distinguishable business or geographical component of the group that provides products or services that are different from those of other segments.
Segments results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The groups primary segmental analyses are in accordance with the basis on which the businesses are managed and according to the differing risk and reward profiles.
The group presents its geographic analysis as its primary segmentation.
The group presents its product analysis as its secondary segmentation.
This will be analysed between secondary segments of Beer, Soft drinks and Other.
e Basis of consolidation SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary and associated entities owned by the company.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Where the companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in minority interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date control commences until the date control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory accounting reference date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using management prepared information on a basis coterminous with the companys accounting reference date.
ii Associates Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest and over which the group has directly or indirectly significant influence, where significant influence is the ability to influence the financial and operating policies of the entity.
The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting reference date of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company is included based on financial statements drawn up to the previous 31 December, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the results.
All other associates are included on a coterminous basis.
f Foreign exchange i Foreign exchange translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the groups presentational currency.
The South African rand ZAR and Colombian peso COP exchange rates to US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements were as follows: Weighted average rate Closing rate ZAR COP ZAR COP Year ended 31 March 2006 6.41 2,275 6.20 2,292 Year ended 31 March 2007 7.06 2,340 7.29 2,190 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 65 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued The weighted average exchange rates have been calculated based on the average of the exchange rates during the relevant year and weighted according to the revenue of the groups businesses.
ii Transactions and balances The financial statements for each group company have been prepared on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences being included in operating profit in the income statement other than those arising on financial assets and liabilities which are recorded within net finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments classified as available for sale assets are included in equity.
iii Overseas subsidiaries and associates One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas subsidiaries and associates expressed in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
All translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates are recognised as a separate component of equity.
For these purposes net assets include loans between group companies that form part of the net investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and is either denominated in the functional currency of the parent or the foreign entity.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, any related exchange differences in equity are recycled through the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
g Business combinations i Subsidiaries The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The identifiable net assets including intangibles, are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the group from the effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in the groups results from that date.
Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash flows to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of the acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
It also includes the groups estimate of any deferred consideration payable.
Where the business combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the cost that is contingent on future events, contingent consideration is included in the cost of an acquisition if the adjustment is probable that is, more likely than not and can be measured reliably.
The difference between the costs of acquisition and the share of the net assets acquired is capitalised as goodwill.
Where the group purchases additional shares in subsidiaries such purchases are reflected as separate acquisition processes and no revised fair valuation is required.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the results of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective date of disposal.
The profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging or crediting the amount of any related goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
ii Associates The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of associates are accounted for using the equity method from the date significant influence commences to the date it ceases based on present ownership interests.
The date significant influence commences is not necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named in the contract.
The group recognises its share of associates results as a one line entry before tax in the income statement, after taking account of the share of interest, tax and minority interests.
When the groups interest in an associate has been reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate, the group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate is considered highly probable that is, significantly more likely than probable, the investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to dispose.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 66 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Note 1 Accounting policies continued iii Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the costs of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the difference is recorded as negative goodwill.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
Where a business combination occurs in several stages, the goodwill associated with each stage is calculated using fair value information at the date of each additional share purchase.
h Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation on a straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Amortisation is included within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Internally generated intangibles are not recognised except for applied development costs referred to under research and development below.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortised but are subject to annual reviews for impairment.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there is a triggering event.
The directors assessment of the useful life of intangible assets is based on the nature of the asset acquired, the durability of the products to which the asset attaches and the expected future impact of competition on the business.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately when they are identifiable, it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the group and the fair value can be measured reliably.
i Trademarks recognised as part of a business combination Trademarks are recognised as an intangible asset where the trademark has a long-term value.
Acquired trademarks are only recognised where title is clear or the trademark could be sold separately from the rest of the business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
The group typically arrives at the cost of such trademarks on a relief from royalty basis.
Where the acquired trademark is seen as having a finite useful economic life, it is subject to amortisation, which in respect of trademarks currently held is 10-40 years, being the period for which the group has exclusive rights to those trademarks.
Where the acquired trademark is seen as having an indefinite useful economic life, the carrying value is subject to an annual impairment review.
ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part of a business combination Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at a fair value representing the remaining contractual period with an assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
Contractual arrangements and relationships with customers and distributors are also valued on a similar basis.
Where the acquired licence or contract is seen as having a finite useful economic life, it is subject to amortisation, which is the period for which the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
iii Customer lists and relationships recognised as part of a business combination The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists and relationships.
These are recognised as intangible assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream attributable to these lists or relationships.
Where the acquired asset is seen as having a finite useful economic life ranging from 10 to 15 years, it is subject to amortisation over the period for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
iv Software Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally generated software products controlled by the group that will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software development employment costs including those of contractors used and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised computer software, licence and development costs are amortised over their useful economic lives of between three and eight years.
Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are expensed as incurred.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 67 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued v Research and development Research and general development expenditure is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, future costs exceed expected revenue and the group has the resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the specific asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
i Land and buildings Land and buildings have been included at their cost as permitted by IFRS 1.
Cost represents the carrying value of land and buildings as at the transition date to IFRS, being 1 April 2004. ii Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
iii Assets held under finance leases Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, then depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet classified, as appropriate, as a current or non-current liability.
The interest element of the lease obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each financial period.
iv Containers Containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less any impairment loss.
Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to write the containers off over the course of their economic life.
This is typically undertaken in a two-stage process: The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of 1-3 years.
Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and loss in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held to write off the deposit value over the expected bottle design period which is a period of no more than 10 years from the inception of a bottle design.
This period is shortened where appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of the entity to use bottles for different brands.
v Depreciation No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
In respect of all other plant, property and equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less the estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 20-50 years Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term or 50 years Plant, vehicles and systems 2-30 years Containers, including returnable containers 1-10 years Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term of life of the asset The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference between the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
vi Capitalisation of borrowing costs Direct financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during the period of development or construction that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, are capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 68 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Note 1 Accounting policies continued j Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair value and are amortised in the income statement over the relevant period to which the customer commitment is made typically 3-5 years.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
Where there is a volume target the amortised cost of the advance is included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there are specific marketing activities commitments the cost is included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are written down if there are impairment concerns.
Assets held at customer premises are included within plant, property and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on similar assets.
k Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, as follows: Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a FIFO basis Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
l Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transactions costs where applicable.
For those financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled or expired.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, which are in determinable monetary amounts, the relevant financial assets and liabilities are offset.
Interest costs are charged against income in the year in which they accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net interest payable over the life of the instrument.
i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Investments in this category are initially recognised at fair value including originating fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
ii Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified as financial assets at fair value through the income statement, or loans and receivables.
Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and are subsequently re-measured at fair value and tested for impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value including any related foreign exchange movements are recognised in equity.
On disposal or impairment of available-for-sale investments, any gains or losses in equity are recycled through the income statement.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
iii Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 69 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in the income statement.
iv Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within cash and cash equivalents on the face of the cash flow statement as they form an integral part of the groups cash management.
v Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in the future.
These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if the host contract is already fair valued: if it would not be considered as a derivative if it was freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that it is closely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit the need to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for local transactions in an economic environment.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when they are expected to mature.
For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately in the income statement.
See note x for the groups accounting policy on hedge accounting.
vi Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade payables are analysed between current and non-current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the obligation to settle will be realised.
vii Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transactions costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
m Impairment This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for sale see note n, and deferred tax assets see note u. Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of the non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell is considered to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
The value in use of the asset is determined by discounting, at a market based pre-tax discount rate, the expected future cash flows resulting from its continued use, including those arising from its final disposal.
When the carrying values of non-current assets are written down by any impairment amount, the loss is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from the cash flows of other assets the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the assets belongs.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to be groups of assets and liabilities that have separately identifiable cash flows.
They also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one income stream.
When an impairment is recognised at a CGU level, the impairment loss is held firstly against any specifically impaired assets of the CGU, when the impairment test for goodwill is completed any impairment is first taken against goodwill balances and if there is a remaining loss it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible assets on a pro-rata basis.
Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are irreversible.
Intangible non-current assets with an indefinite life and goodwill are tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 70 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Note 1 Accounting policies continued n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for resale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Such assets are classified as held for resale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continued use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and when management is committed to the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from date of classification.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
The carrying amount of the provision increases in each period to reflect the passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and the movement is recognised in the income statement within interest costs.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses however provisions are recognised for onerous contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the expected benefit.
p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares are also classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options, or for the acquisition of a business, are included in the share premium account.
q Investments in own shares and those shares held by employee benefit trusts Shares held by employee share ownership plans and employee benefit trusts are treated as a deduction from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed of.
The SABMiller plc shares held by Safari Ltd, a special purpose vehicle, are classified similarly.
Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement as a purchase of own shares for share trusts within net cash from financing activities.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys equity shareholders.
r Revenue recognition i Sale of goods and services Revenue represents the fair value at consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially transferred.
The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It is not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently any excise that is recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, promotional discounts and after an appropriate amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the exception that these are included within other income.
ii Interest income Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash flows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind the discount as interest income.
iii Royalty income Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
iv Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
s Operating leases Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued t Exceptional items Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period are material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, interest and tax.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Where certain income statement items incurred are of a capital nature or are considered material and non-recurring, the group proposes to continue to present alternative earnings per share calculations both on a headline under the United Kingdom Society of Investment Professionals definition and on an adjusted basis.
u Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect of all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of a liability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full on temporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
This includes taxation in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax is also recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings of overseas associates as the group is not able to determine when such earnings will be remitted and when such additional tax such as withholding taxes might be payable.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences including carried forward tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
v Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when approved by the board.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present obligation at the balance sheet date.
w Employee benefits i Wages and salaries Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation pay when such benefits are earned and not when these benefits are paid.
The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are appropriately discounted to reflect the future payment dates at discount rates determined by reference to local high-quality corporate bonds.
iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
At a mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the appropriate proportion of the expected bonuses which would become payable at the year end.
iv Share-based compensation The group operates a variety of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
These comprise share option plans with and without nonmarket performance conditions attached and a performance share award scheme with market conditions attached.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award granted after 7 November 2002 over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
This expense is offset by a corresponding adjustment made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
The charge is based on the fair value of the award as at the date of grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 72 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Note 1 Accounting policies continued The charge is not reversed if the options are not exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than the option price at the date of grant.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
v Pension obligations The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for any actuarial gains or losses and unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of highquality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside of income statement and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense, with the exception of gains or losses arising from changes in the benefits regarding past services, which are recognised in the income statement.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
vi Other post-employment obligations Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full as they arise outside the income statement and are presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
vii Termination benefits Temination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to present value in a similar manner to all long-term employee benefits.
x Derivative financial instruments The derivative instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the group in line with the groups risk management policies.
The group also has derivatives embedded in other contracts primarily cross border foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document at inception, the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is also required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
This effectiveness test is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or commitment cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedge.
i Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest rate risk to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in the income statement in the period incurred.
Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recorded in the income statement together with the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued ii Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency risk to which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised as a separate component of equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a forecasted transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps designated in a hedging relationship.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
These largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of net investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only recycled to the income statement upon disposal of the net investment.
Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
y Deposits by customers Bottles and containers in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits paid by customers for branded returnable containers are reflected in the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liabilities that may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers and bottles is shown in provisions.
z Earnings per share Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent entity, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares held in the groups employee benefit trust during the year.
Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares held in the groups employee benefit trust during the year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 74 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2 Segmental analysis Primary reporting format geographical segments Income Statement Share of Share of post-tax post-tax Segment Segment results of Segment Segment results of revenue result associates Total revenue result associates Total 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 4,373 746 746 2,153 376 376 Europe 4,078 706 706 3,258 567 567 North America 4,887 366 366 4,912 454 454 Africa and Asia 1,455 272 121 393 1,203 257 104 361 South Africa 3,827 1,043 84 1,127 3,781 1,011 73 1,084 Corporate 106 106 90 90 Group 18,620 3,027 205 3,232 15,307 2,575 177 2,752 Net finance costs 428 299 Profit before tax 2,804 2,453 Taxation 921 779 Profit for the year 1,883 1,674 Voluntary Income Statement disclosures for the primary reporting format Alternative performance measures have been provided below on a segmental basis since the directors believe that they give a useful additional indication of underlying performance.
Group revenue including associates Group Group Share of revenue Share of revenue Segment associates including Segment associates including revenue revenue associates revenue revenue associates 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 4,373 19 4,392 2,153 12 2,165 Europe 4,078 4,078 3,258 3,258 North America 4,887 4,887 4,912 4,912 Africa and Asia 1,455 1,219 2,674 1,203 1,018 2,221 South Africa Beverages 3,827 447 4,274 3,781 423 4,204 Hotels and Gaming 340 340 321 321 South Africa total 3,827 787 4,614 3,781 744 4,525 Corporate Group 18,620 2,025 20,645 15,307 1,774 17,081 There is no material difference between the source and destination of revenue.
Revenue between segments is immaterial.
Operating profit Operating Operating profit before profit before Operating Exceptional exceptional Operating Exceptional exceptional profit items items profit items items 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 746 64 810 376 11 387 Europe 706 24 730 567 567 North America 366 366 454 454 Africa and Asia 272 272 257 257 South Africa: Beverages 1,043 1,043 1,011 1,011 Corporate 106 5 101 90 4 86 Group 3,027 93 3,120 2,575 15 2,590 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 75 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 2 Segmental analysis continued EBITA This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share of associates operating profit on a similar basis.
Share of Share of associates Amortisation associates Amortisation Operating operating of intangible Operating operating of intangible profit before profit before assets profit before profit before assets exceptional exceptional excluding exceptional exceptional excluding items items software EBITA items items software EBITA 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 810 105 915 387 49 436 Europe 730 3 733 567 2 569 North America 366 9 375 454 454 Africa and Asia 272 193 2 467 257 164 1 422 South Africa: Beverages 1,043 59 1,102 1,011 51 1,062 Hotels and Gaming 100 100 84 84 South Africa total 1,043 159 1,202 1,011 135 1,146 Corporate 101 101 86 86 Group 3,120 352 119 3,591 2,590 299 52 2,941 The groups share of associates operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates in the income statement as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Share of associates operating profit before exceptional items 352 299 Share of associates finance costs 9 16 Share of associates taxation 102 81 Share of associates minority interests 36 25 Share of post-tax results of associates 205 177 EBITDA a reconciliation of group EBITDA after cash exceptional items to cash generated from operations can be found in note 26a.
This comprises the net cash generated from operations before working capital movements and after operating cash exceptional items.
EBITDA EBITDA before cash Cash before cash Cash exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items EBITDA items items EBITDA 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,147 25 1,122 574 4 570 Europe 936 7 929 733 733 North America 510 510 591 591 Africa and Asia 340 340 321 321 South Africa: Beverages 1,200 1,200 1,205 1,205 Corporate 65 5 70 68 4 72 Group 4,068 37 4,031 3,356 8 3,348 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 76 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2 Segmental analysis continued Balance Sheet Total Assets Segment Investment in Unallocated Segment Investment in Unallocated Total assets associates assets Total assets assets associates assets assets 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 12,575 5 12,580 12,092 73 12,165 Europe 4,232 4,232 3,582 3,582 North America 6,072 6,072 5,732 5,732 Africa and Asia 1,562 1,045 2,607 1,218 721 1,939 South Africa 2,074 301 2,375 2,331 339 2,670 Corporate 575 575 699 699 Unallocated assets 295 295 328 328 Group 27,090 1,351 295 28,736 25,654 1,133 328 27,115 Unallocated assets include borrowing related derivative financial instrument assets, current tax and deferred tax assets.
Total Liabilities Segment Unallocated Total Segment Unallocated Total liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,226 1,226 1,072 1,072 Europe 874 874 644 644 North America 1,272 1,272 1,303 1,303 Africa and Asia 329 329 190 190 South Africa 592 592 607 607 Corporate 234 234 184 184 Unallocated liabilities 9,208 9,208 9,530 9,530 Group 4,527 9,208 13,735 4,000 9,530 13,530 Unallocated liabilities include borrowings including related derivative financial instruments, current tax and deferred tax liabilities.
Other segmental information Depreciation and Other Impairment amortisation non-cash items losses recognised 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 366 177 8 15 3 2 Europe 189 159 13 2 21 10 North America 145 132 3 4 3 Africa and Asia 59 49 5 6 2 5 South Africa 134 136 21 58 1 1 Corporate 6 7 30 13 1 1 Group 899 660 74 94 31 19 Capital expenditure Acquisition Total excluding acquisitions activity capital expenditure 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 372 161 5,473 372 5,634 Europe 374 279 7 21 381 300 North America 155 146 215 370 146 Africa and Asia 144 110 48 107 192 217 South Africa 230 280 230 280 Corporate 12 44 12 44 Group 1,287 1,020 270 5,601 1,557 6,621 Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Sparks and Steel Reserve brands have been reflected within acquisition activity for segmental reporting purposes.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 2 Segmental analysis continued Secondary Reporting Format Business Segments Revenue Total assets Capital expenditure 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Beer 15,744 12,967 22,563 21,345 1,323 5,830 Soft drinks 1,818 1,619 1,797 2,286 136 259 Other 1,058 721 2,730 2,023 98 532 Sub-total 18,620 15,307 27,090 25,654 1,557 6,621 Investment in associates 1,351 1,133 Unallocated assets 295 328 Group 18,620 15,307 28,736 27,115 1,557 6,621 Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
There is no material difference between the source and destination of revenue.
3 Net operating expenses 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 4,957 4,239 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 27 21 Raw materials and consumables used 4,930 4,260 Excise duties 3,758 2,929 Employee benefits costs see note 6a 1,955 1,723 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 737 555 Owned assets 547 435 Under finance lease 3 9 Containers 187 111 Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 20 5 Amortisation of intangible assets 162 105 Intangible assets excluding software 119 52 Software 43 53 Other expenses 4,237 3,369 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,262 1,797 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 353 289 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 4 Adjustment to goodwill 31 Impairment of trade receivables 18 15 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 33 27 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicle and systems 43 27 Restructuring and integration costs 44 15 Research and development expenditure 6 8 Other operating expenses 1,434 1,187 Total net operating expenses by nature 15,786 12,915 Other income 193 183 Revenue received from royalties 31 34 Dividends received from investments 1 3 Other operating income 161 146 Net operating expenses 15,593 12,732 Excise duties have been incurred as follows: Latin America US$1,092 million 2006: US$502 million : Europe US$784 million 2006: US$607 million : North America US$856 million 2006: US$879 million : Africa and Asia US$321 million 2006: US$243 million and South Africa US$705 million 2006: US$698 million.
This excludes integration costs relating to accelerated container amortisation.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS 39, were a loss of US$32 million 2006: loss of US$7 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 78 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3 Net operating expenses continued The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting firms as auditors of various parts of the group: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the companys auditor for the auditing of the companys annual accounts 1 1 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 8 7 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 1 6 Other services relating to taxation 6 5 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 6 Other services 4 4 20 29 In 2006 US$12 million of the services related to the Bavaria Group transaction.
2007 2006 US$m US$m Other auditors Fees payable to other auditors for other services: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1 1 Other services relating to taxation 4 4 Internal audit services 1 Litigation 1 Other services 6 18 13 23 In 2006 US$13 million of other services related to consulting advice on internal control updates.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 4 Exceptional items 2007 2006 US$m US$m Subsidiaries exceptional items included in operating profit: Latin America Bavaria integration and restructuring costs 64 11 Europe 24 Integration and restructuring costs 7 Profit on sale of land in Italy 14 Adjustment to goodwill 31 Corporate Bavaria integration costs 5 4 Exceptional items included within operating profit 93 15 Taxation credit 30 5 Latin America and Corporate Integration and restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of Bavaria S. A. of US$69 million 2006: US$15 million were incurred during the year.
Europe Integration and restructuring costs of US$7 million associated with the consolidation of Pivovar Topvar a. s. and the relocation of the Europe hub office to Zug were incurred during the year.
In November 2006, the Naples brewery site was sold for US$28 million giving rise to a profit of US$14 million.
During the year the Group recognised deferred tax assets that had previously not been recognised on the acquisition of Birra Peroni SpA.
In accordance with IAS12, Income Taxes, when deferred tax assets on losses not previously recognised on acquisition are subsequently recognised, both goodwill and deferred tax assets are adjusted with corresponding entries to operating expense and taxation in the income statement.
This deferred tax asset has been substantially utilised during the year.
5 Net finance costs 2007 2006 US$m US$m a.
Interest payable and similar charges Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 238 124 Interest payable on corporate bonds 378 225 Early redemption penalty in respect of private placement notes 13 Interest element of finance leases payments 1 1 Net exchange gains losses on financing activities 28 3 Fair value losses on derivative financial instruments 3 Losses on early settlement of bonds 44 1 Other finance charges 35 7 Total interest payable and similar charges 668 377 b.
Interest receivable Interest receivable 177 78 Fair value gains on derivative financial instruments 19 Fair value gains on borrowings 44 Total interest receivable 240 78 Net finance costs 428 299 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 80 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6 Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 2007 2006 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,564 1,416 Share based payments 52 32 Social security costs 165 129 Other pension costs 120 96 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 54 50 1,955 1,723 b.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excludes employees of associated undertakings and includes executive directors: 2007 2006 Number Number Latin America 26,394 15,412 Europe 12,017 11,622 North America 5,889 5,887 Africa and Asia 11,028 10,557 South Africa 11,400 10,778 Corporate 221 216 Group 66,949 54,472 2006: includes South America from October 2005.
Annualised equivalent 26,051. c. Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are defined as key management.
At 31 March 2007 there were 24 2006: 22 members of key management.
2007 2006 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 27 21 Post-employment benefits 3 2 Share-based payments 7 6 37 29 The key management figures given above include the directors.
d. Directors 2007 2006 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 4,598,299 2006: 4,101,628 9 7 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or vesting of share awards 12 6 Company contributions to money purchase schemes 457,500 2006: 420,000 1 1 22 14 At 31 March 2007, two directors 2006: two had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 57.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 7 Taxation 2007 2006 US$m US$m Current taxation 780 701 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: nil charge 2006: US$29 million charge 833 717 Adjustments in respect of prior years 53 16 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 119 78 Total current taxation 899 779 Deferred taxation 22 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$9 million charge 2006: US$6 million charge 82 7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 5 Recognition of deferred tax asset in connection with the acquisition of Birra Peroni see note 4 31 Rate change 34 2 921 779 Tax on items charged to equity: Deferred tax credit charge on defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical schemes 2 17 Deferred tax charge credit on share options equity settled share incentive plans 9 9 7 8 Total current tax 899 779 Total deferred tax 29 8 Total taxation 928 787 Effective tax rate before amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and exceptional items % 34.5 33.6 The effective tax rate is calculated including share of associates operating profit before exceptional items and share of associates tax before exceptional items.
This calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
Tax rate reconciliation 2007 2006 US$m US$m Profit before taxation 2,804 2,453 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates 205 177 2,599 2,276 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 30% 780 683 Exempt income 13 18 Other incentive allowances 11 2 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 126 109 Deferred tax asset not recognised 12 3 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 119 78 Other taxes 13 9 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 50 60 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 48 21 Deferred taxation rate change 34 2 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries 27 Total income tax expense 921 779 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 82 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8 Earnings per share 2007 2006 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 110.2 105.0 Diluted earnings per share 109.5 104.3 Headline earnings per share 116.4 108.3 Adjusted basic earnings per share 120.0 109.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 119.3 108.4 The weighted average number of shares was: 2007 2006 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,500 1,376 ESOP trust ordinary shares 4 4 Basic shares 1,496 1,372 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 9 9 Diluted shares 1,505 1,381 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 6,039,681 2006: 5,302,856 share options that were antidilutive for the year because the exercise price of the option exceeds the fair value of the shares during the year, and 7,707,155 2006: 6,408,898 share options that were anti-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the options have not been met.
These options could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
7,079,260 share options and awards were granted after 31 March 2007 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
Adjusted and headline earnings The group has also presented an adjusted earnings per share figure to exclude the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software and other non-recurring items in order to present a more useful comparison for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share has been based on adjusted headline earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the UK Society of Investment Professionals UKSIP formerly the Institute of Investment Management and Research Statement of Investment Practice No.
1 entitled The Definition of Headline Earnings.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,649 1,440 Early redemption penalty in respect of private placement notes 13 Profit loss on fair value movements on capital items 10 5 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software 119 52 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 4 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 20 5 Adjustment to goodwill 31 Tax effects of the above items 43 19 Minority interests share of the above items 2 6 Headline earnings basic 1,741 1,484 Integration reorganisation costs net of tax effects 55 13 Adjusted earnings 1,796 1,497 This does not include all fair value movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 9 Dividends 2007 2006 US$m US$m Equity 2006 Final dividend paid: 31.0 US cents 2005: 26.0 US cents per ordinary share 472 328 2007 Interim dividend paid: 14.0 US cents 2006: 13.0 US cents per ordinary share 209 192 681 520 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 36.0 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2007, which will absorb an estimated US$541 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 7 August 2007 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg Registers on 13 July 2007.
The total dividend per share for the year is 50.0 US cents 2006: 44.0 US cents.
Safari Ltd waived its rights to interim dividends of US$11 million 2006: US$10 million, and to the final dividend in respect of 2006 of US$24 million 2005: US$20 million.
Dividends amounting to US$28 million in respect of the proposed final dividend for 2007 have been waived by Safari Ltd and have been deducted in arriving at the estimated amount of shareholders funds to be absorbed.
The employee benefit trusts which hold shares for the various executive share incentive schemes have waived their rights to dividends.
Dividends are paid between group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, amongst other things in the case of companies incorporated in Great Britain, the provisions of the companies Articles of Association and the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
There are restrictions over the distribution by a company incorporated in Great Britain of any profits which are not generated from external cash receipts as defined in Technical Release 7 03, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The final dividend of the company of US$472 million paid on 4 August 2006, relating to the year ended 31 March 2006 and the interim dividend of US$209 million paid on 22 December 2006, relating to the six months ended 30 September 2007, were paid out of profits available for distribution and the final dividend of the company of US$541 million proposed to be paid on 7 August 2007, relating to the year ended 31 March 2007, will be paid out of profits available for distribution as at 31 March 2007.
10 Goodwill Total US$m Cost and net book amount At 1 April 2005 7,181 Exchange adjustments 76 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings 1,052 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 4,664 Adjustments to purchase consideration 7 At 31 March 2006 12,814 Exchange adjustments 278 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings see note 27 121 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings see note 27 78 Adjustment on recognition of deferred tax assets in connection with the acquisition of Birra Peroni 31 Transfer to disposal groups 10 At 31 March 2007 13,250 As restated see note 28.
2007 Additional goodwill arising on the consolidation of subsidiary undertakings was due to the acquisition of the Fosters business in India on 12 September 2006 and minority purchases in Latin America.
2006 Goodwill arising on the consolidation of subsidiary undertakings principally arose due to the Bavaria transaction on 12 October 2005 which resulted in US$4,317 million as restated refer to note 28 of provisional goodwill and the consolidation of 99% of the brewing interests of the Shaw Wallace group in the India investment resulting in US$315 million of provisional goodwill.
Goodwill arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings principally arose on the acquisition of additional minority interests in Colombia and Peru which resulted in additional goodwill of US$942 million, and the acquisitions of the remaining minority interests in Bevco Ltd Central America and Plzen sky Prazdroj a. s. Czech which resulted in additional goodwill of US$107 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 84 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10 Goodwill continued Goodwill allocated by cash generating unit CGU is as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Subsidiaries: Latin America: Central America 829 829 Colombia 3,926 3,720 Peru 1,470 1,340 Other Latin America 196 173 Europe: Czech 856 767 Italy 431 419 Other Europe 106 98 North America 4,254 4,254 Africa and Asia: India 402 313 Other Africa and Asia 129 130 South Africa 651 771 13,250 12,814 As restated see note 28.
Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The basis for the value-in-use calculations are cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering five-year periods.
The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using the Modigliani-Miller methodology, which reflects the groups debt cost after tax, returns from United States treasury bonds with maturity of 10 years, relevant individual country risk profiles and a SABMiller-specific beta.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash flows and this closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
The following table presents discount rates used in the value-in-use calculations in each of the groups primary segments: Ranges of post-tax Long term discount rates growth rates Latin America 10.2%-18.2% 2.5%-6.0% Europe 7.1%-12.2% 1.5%-2.0% North America 7.8% 1.5% Africa and Asia 13.1%-21.5% 3.0%-4.0% South Africa 10.2% 3.0% Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 11 Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2005 12 215 227 Exchange adjustments 16 1 17 Additions separately acquired 28 2 30 Acquisitions through business combinations 3,519 3 10 3,532 Transfers from other assets 38 38 Write-offs 8 8 At 31 March 2006 3,515 275 12 3,802 Exchange adjustments 165 2 167 Additions separately acquired 215 54 1 270 Acquisitions through business combinations 38 6 44 Transfers from other assets 6 6 Transfers to disposal groups 14 14 Write-offs 1 1 2 At 31 March 2007 3,919 336 18 4,273 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2005 5 100 105 Amortisation 51 53 1 105 Write-offs 4 4 At 31 March 2006 56 149 1 206 Exchange adjustments 71 8 Amortisation 118 43 1 162 Transfers to disposal groups 2 2 Write-offs 1 1 2 At 31 March 2007 179 192 1 372 Net book amount At 1 April 2005 7 115 122 At 31 March 2006 3,459 126 11 3,596 At 31 March 2007 3,740 144 17 3,901 At 31 March 2007, significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are the Aguila brand in Colombia 2007: US$1,475 million, 2006: US$1,446 million and the Cristal brand in Peru 2007: US$624 million, 2006: US$604 million.
Both of these brands have a remaining amortisation period of 38 years.
The brands which arose on the Bavaria transaction in 2005 were valued on a relief from royalty basis using the same post-tax discount rates and long-term growth rates as those applied to the goodwill impairment review.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 86 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 12 Property, plant and equipment Assets in Plant, course of Land and vehicles construction buildings and systems Containers Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2005 205 1,459 4,426 914 7,004 Exchange adjustments 2 30 69 6 107 Additions 543 19 240 188 990 Transfers to other assets 38 38 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 94 978 883 115 2,070 Disposals 30 100 25 155 Breakages and shrinkage 26 26 Transfers 565 98 413 54 Write-offs 1 14 55 70 At 31 March 2006 237 2,493 5,779 1,159 9,668 Exchange adjustments 7 81 81 19 150 Additions 709 26 244 253 1,232 Transfers to from other assets 8 1 1 6 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 2 8 1 11 Change in lease classification 14 14 Disposals 1 80 213 82 376 Breakages and shrinkage 33 33 Transfers 540 93 362 85 Transfers to disposal groups 10 23 22 55 Write-offs 1 7 23 31 At 31 March 2007 403 2,606 6,218 1,319 10,546 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2005 316 2,129 503 2,948 Exchange adjustments 7 38 4 49 Provided during the period 50 394 111 555 Disposals 10 83 19 112 Write-offs 1 7 7 15 Impairments 4 4 At 31 March 2006 348 2,399 584 3,331 Exchange adjustments 20 39 7 52 Provided during the period 58 492 187 737 Change in lease classification 7 7 Disposals 15 192 75 282 Breakages and shrinkage 1 1 Tranfers to disposal groups 1 11 17 29 Write-offs 7 11 18 Impairments 13 13 At 31 March 2007 410 2,726 660 3,796 Net book amount At 1 April 2005 205 1,143 2,297 411 4,056 At 31 March 2006 237 2,145 3,380 575 6,337 At 31 March 2007 403 2,196 3,492 659 6,750 As restated see note 28.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 87 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$654 million 2006: US$632 million which is not depreciated.
Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Net book amount 10 37 Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts in respect of interest capitalised: 2007 2006 US$m US$m At beginning and end of year 18 18 Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$101 million 2006: US$150 million.
13 Investments in associates A list of the groups significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest, is given in note 32 to the accounts.
Investments Loans Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2005 1,055 61 1,116 Movements during the year: Exchange adjustments 35 1 36 Additions 1 1 Acquired as part of business combination 73 73 Repayment of loans and preference share capital 62 60 122 Share of results retained 177 177 Dividends received 71 71 Share of associates movements in reserves 5 5 At 31 March 2006 1,133 1,133 Movements during the year: Exchange adjustments 8 8 Additions including deferred consideration of US$5 million 191 191 Disposals 68 68 Share of results retained 205 205 Dividends received 102 102 At 31 March 2007 1,351 1,351 As restated see note 28.
2007 Additional investments totalling US$186 million in China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd, Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Stock Company Vinamilk and Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd in Australia were made during the year.
The group disposed of its interest in Reserva Conchal S. A. in Costa Rica during the year.
No profit was recognised on the transaction.
2006 The associates acquired as part of a business combination are Arrendadora Centroamericana S. A. Reserva Conchal S. A. and Endelis which were acquired as part of the Bavaria transaction.
Tsogo Sun repaid loans and preference share capital of US$122 million during the year.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 88 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 13 Investments in associates continued The analysis of associated undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Listed 130 134 Unlisted 1,221 999 1,351 1,133 As restated see note 28.
The market value of listed investments included above is: Distell Group Ltd 419 341 Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and profit or loss on a 100% basis is shown below: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Total assets 6,571 5,587 Total liabilities 1,704 1,388 Revenue 6,194 5,090 Net profit or loss 786 637 Delta Corporation Limited, a listed associated undertaking of the group which operates in Zimbabwe, is restricted from paying dividends or exporting capital due to foreign currency shortages.
As such the market value of its listed shares has not been included above.
Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
14 Available for sale investments Investments US$m At 1 April 2005 167 Exchange adjustments 1 Acquisitions 16 Additions 2 Transfer to a subsidiary undertaking 141 At 31 March 2006 43 Additions 3 Disposals 1 Net gains transferred to equity 7 At 31 March 2007 52 All investments at 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are unlisted.
As at 1 April 2005, certain legal issues in India relating to the ownership of the 50:50 interest with Shaw Wallace and Company Ltd Shaw Wallace were still being resolved and the investment was accounted for as a fixed asset investment.
On 27 May 2005, MBL Investments Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the group, acquired the remaining Shaw Wallace Groups 50% interest in the brewing operations taking the groups interest in the brewing operations to 99%.
The directors considered that this second transaction was structured in such a way as to satisfactorily mitigate the issues relating to the ownership structure referred to above and the interest in the brewing operations was consolidated as a subsidiary from 27 May 2005.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 15 Inventories 2007 2006 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 498 475 Work in progress 104 102 Finished goods and goods for resale 326 301 928 878 As restated see note 28.
The following amount of inventories are expected to be settled after 12 months: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 23 20 Borrowings are secured on the inventories of the group totalling US$19 million 2006: US$24 million.
16 Trade and other receivables 2007 2006 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,251 1,079 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 134 123 Trade receivables net 1,117 956 Amounts owed by associates trade 1 2 Other receivables 332 185 Prepayments and accrued income 202 168 1,652 1,311 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,114 944 Amounts owed by associates trade 1 2 Other receivables 204 137 Prepayments and accrued income 152 142 1,471 1,225 Non-current Trade receivables net 3 12 Other receivables 128 48 Prepayments and accrued income 50 26 181 86 Total trade and other receivables 1,652 1,311 As restated see note 28.
All non-current receivables are due within six years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
17 Cash and cash equivalents 2007 2006 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 86 64 Cash at bank and in hand 395 408 481 472 Cash and short-term deposits of US$68 million 2006: US$96 million are held in African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 90 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Disposal groups held for sale Assets and liabilities relating to Productura fide Jugos S. A. a fruit juice manufacturer in Colombia and Embotelladora Centroamericana S. A. a Pepsi bottling operation in Costa Rica have been presented as held for sale.
The sales of Embotelladora Centroamericana S. A. and Productura fide Jugos S. A. were completed on 27 April 2007 and 31 May 2007 respectively.
Both these disposals relate to the Latin America segment.
2007 2006 US$m US$m Disposal groups held for sale Goodwill 10 Intangible assets 12 Property, plant and equipment 26 Inventories 6 Other current assets 10 64 Liabilities directly associated with disposal groups held for sale Borrowings 4 Deferred tax liabilities 4 Provisions 4 Trade and other payables 7 19 19 Trade and other payables 2007 2006 US$m US$m Trade payables 913 725 Accruals 572 571 Deferred income 57 63 Containers in the hands of customers 331 283 Amounts owed to associates trade 31 20 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 7 39 Excise duty payable 268 238 VAT and other taxes payable 108 99 Other payables 728 648 3,015 2,686 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 913 725 Accruals 572 571 Deferred income 14 18 Containers in the hands of customers 331 283 Amounts owed to associates trade 31 20 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 2 39 Excise duty payable 268 238 VAT and other taxes payable 108 99 Other payables 507 421 2,746 2,414 Non-current Deferred income 43 45 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 5 Other payables 221 227 269 272 Total trade and other payables 3,015 2,686 As restated see note 28.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 20 Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below: 2007 2006 US$m US$m At beginning of year 1,163 35 Acquisitions 1,126 Rate Change 34 2 Exchange adjustments 41 6 Charged to the income statement 56 2 Taken to equity: Actuarial valuations 2 17 Share based payments 9 9 Transfer to disposal groups 4 At end of year 1,229 1,163 As restated see note 28.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and postretirement Fixed asset benefit Financial Other timing allowances provisions Intangibles instruments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2006 327 1 1,111 1,437 Rate change 8 37 7 4 34 Exchange adjustments 9 2 45 5 2 45 Transfer from deferred tax assets 168 32 107 47 18 Charged credited to the income statement 27 1 34 14 13 33 Transfer to disposal groups 4 4 At 31 March 2007 523 34 1,081 119 58 1,393 Pensions and postretirement Fixed asset benefit Provisions Financial Other timing allowances provisions and accruals instruments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2006 406 321 92 158 109 274 Exchange adjustments 5 3 1 1 4 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 168 32 17 107 30 18 Credited charged to the income statement 16 9 9 51 54 89 Taken to equity: Actuarial valuations 2 2 Share based payments 9 9 At 31 March 2007 217 279 85 17 164 As restated see note 28.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax asset arises due to timing differences on provisions in Europe, Africa and Asia, North and Latin America.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$1,377 million 2006: US$1,410 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets of US$43 million 2006: US$126 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 92 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 20 Deferred taxation continued 2007 2006 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 28 29 Tax credits 8 15 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 1 2 Share based payments 7 14 44 60 These deferred tax assets will not expire, with the exception of US$3 million tax losses which will expire within three years.
There are no unrecognised deferred tax liabilities.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
A deferred tax liability of US$27 million 2006: US$nil million has been recognised.
A deferred tax liability of US$28 million 2006: US$31 million has also been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
21 Borrowings Current 2007 2006 US$m US$m Secured: 1 IPC 7.15% Securitisation 184 Other secured loans 301 134 301 318 Unsecured: 2 US$500 million 8.875% Ordinary Bonds 144A due 2010 541 COP 99.7 billion DTF 2.30% Ordinary Bonds due 2007 46 COP 64.9 billion DTF 2.60% Ordinary Bonds due 2007 29 COP 7.9 billion DTF 2.75% Ordinary Bonds due 2007 4 3 Commercial paper 627 Other unsecured loans 544 720 Overdrafts 187 324 Obligations under finance leases 6 14 1,410 1,632 Total current borrowings 1,711 1,950 COP: Colombian Peso DTF: Colombian average interest rate for free loan investments of the financial sector.
IPC: Consumer price index published by Departamento Administrativo Nacional fide Estadistica of Colombia for 31 March 2007 was 5.78% 2006: 4.11%.
1 In October 2004, Bavaria signed a contract with two of its subsidiaries Cerveceria Leona S. A. and Cerveceria Union S. A. for the sale and provision of malt.
Under the terms of the contract, Bavaria will sell malt to Cerveceria Leona and Cerveceria Union for a total of approximately US$251 million during a 10 year period.
Bavaria will provide malt on a monthly basis.
The financing of the transaction was provided by a trust, which at the same time issued 7,000 securities of US$146 million in the market.
Bavaria received the capital for the transaction up-front.
Cerveceria Leona and Cerveceria Union will repay the capital to the trust in semi-annual instalments, accruing interest of IPC 7.15%.
This borrowing was repaid during the year.
2 In October 2003, Bavaria issued US$500 million 8.875% 144A bonds, due 2010.
This borrowing was repaid on 11 May 2006.
3 In October 2006, SABMiller Plc entered into a US$1,000 million commercial paper programme for general corporate purposes.
Debt issued under the programme is guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC and SABMiller Finance BV.
The programme benefits from a dedicated US$1,000 million 364 day back-stop facility with a one year extension.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 21 Borrowings continued Non-current 2007 2006 US$m US$m Secured: Secured loans 16 18 16 18 Unsecured: 1 US$1,100 million 5.50% Guaranteed Notes 2013 1,083 1,081 2 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes 2008 608 600 3 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 297 293 4 US$300 million Libor 0.30% Guaranteed Notes due 2009 303 4 US$600 million 6.20% Guaranteed Notes due 2011 607 4 US$850 million 6.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2016 884 COP 640 billion IPC 7.30% Ordinary Bonds due 2014 403 390 COP 561.8 billion IPC 6.52% Ordinary Bonds due 2015 317 308 COP 370 billion IPC 8.18% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 227 222 COP 338.5 billion IPC 7.50% Ordinary Bonds due 2013 210 204 COP 99.7 billion DTF 2.30 % Ordinary Bonds due 2007 45 COP 40 billion DTF 3.0% Ordinary Bonds due 2009 20 19 5 US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 372 1,944 6 US$2,400 million revolving credit facility 301 7 Botswana pula 60 million 11.35% fixed rate bond due 2011 10 11 Other unsecured loans 154 203 Obligations under finance leases 9 13 5,504 5,634 Total non-current borrowings 5,520 5,652 Total current and non-current borrowings 7,231 7,602 Analysed as: Borrowings 7,029 7,251 Obligations under finance leases 15 27 Overdrafts 187 324 7,231 7,602 As restated see note 28.
1 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2013, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2013.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
In addition the notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurance of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$600 million, 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2008.
3 On 7 August 2003, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million, 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033, guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC and SABMiller Finance BV.
The notes mature on 15 August 2033.
4 On 28 June 2006, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million LIBOR plus 0.30% Notes due July 2009, US$600 million 6.20% Notes due July 2011 and US$850 million 6.50% Notes due July 2016 and guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC and SABMiller Finance BV.
The Fixed Rate Notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
In addition the notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
5 On 15 December 2005 the group entered into a US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes.
The facility matures in December 2011.
6 On 9 September 2005 the group entered into a US$3,500 million 364-day revolving credit facility with a one-year extension option for general corporate purposes including financing the Bavaria minority acquistions.
This facility was reduced to US$2,400 million on 28 December 2005 and cancelled on 8 September 2006.
7 On 28 July 2004 a 60 million Botswana pula 11.35% unsecured private bond placing was placed in the Botswana debt capital market.
This bond matures on 31 March 2011.
The bond is redeemable at any time at the option of the issuer, at a market value, in whole or in part.
The bond is not guaranteed.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 94 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21 Borrowings continued Maturity of financial liabilties The maturity profle of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows: Borrowings Derivative Borrowings Derivative and Finance financial 2007 and Finance financial 2006 overdrafts leases instruments Total overdrafts leases instruments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 406 8 414 236 11 247 Between two and five years 2,843 1 140 2,984 2,889 1 155 3,045 In five years or more 2,262 15 2,277 2,514 1 20 2,535 5,511 9 155 5,675 5,639 13 175 5,827 As restated see note 28.
Borrowing related derivative instruments only.
Undrawn borrowing facilities The group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Within one year 1,309 1,863 Between one and two years 373 2,099 Between two and five years 1,741 4 In five years or more 3 64 3,426 4,030 As restated see note 28.
Furthermore, in October 2006 SABMiller plc entered into a US$1,000 million committed facility as back-stop to the commercial paper programme.
The facility can only be drawn in the event that issuance under the commercial paper programme is unavailable.
The back-stop facility is a 364-day facility with a one-year extension option for refinancing any note or other instrument maturing under the US commercial paper programme.
Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Within one year 6 15 Between one and five years 10 15 In five years or more 1 1 17 31 Future finance charges on finance leases 2 4 Present value of finance lease liabilities 15 27 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 95 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 22 Financial instruments The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange, interest rate and price risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.
The group purchases or issues financial instruments in order to finance its operations and to manage the interest rate and currency risks that arise from those operations and from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial balances, for example trade receivables, trade payables, accruals and prepayments, arise directly from the groups operations.
The group finances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source.
The groups central treasury function is managed by SABMiller plc which is responsible for cash, the central borrowing portfolio, and the management of financial risks arising in relation to volatility in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Under central treasury guidance and policies, operating subsidiaries negotiate short-term funding facilities directly with banks in their various operating regions and also cover their local foreign currency exchange exposures.
The group also enters into derivative transactions, principally in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and exchange traded future contracts, in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
The group can also purchase call options where these provide a cost-effective hedging alternative and where forming part of an option collar strategy, the group can also sell put options to reduce or eliminate the cost of purchased options.
It is the group policy that no trading in financial instruments be taken.
Compliance with the groups policies and exposure limits is reviewed periodically by the board of directors.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group seeks to mitigate the effect of structural currency exposures, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of cross currency swaps.
During the course of the year, the group entered into cross currency swaps with an approximate nominal value of $1,000 million, designated as net investment hedges, in order to rebalance the currency of the groups financial liabilities with those of its main operating units.
The group also has transactional currency exposures that arise principally from sales or purchases in currencies other than the units functional currency.
ii Interest rate risk Exposure to movements in interest rates on group borrowings is managed through interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
As at 31 March 2007, 34% 2006: 25% of the groups borrowings were at fixed rates, taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
The groups policy is to limit the impact of movements in interest rates on floating rate debt to 1% of group operating profit excluding exceptional items for each 1% change in interest rates.
iii Price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classified on the balance sheet as available for sale.
The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of finished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
These price risks are managed principally through fixed price contracts with suppliers internationally.
Credit risk The group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The high cash generation can result in significant cash holdings by operating units with local banks or financial institutions.
Credit risk arising in relation to these holdings is managed according to individual credit limits that are assigned based either on the global credit rating of the bank concerned or, where no such rating exists, on specific approval obtained from the Audit Committee.
The assigned credit limits are also used to limit counterparty exposures arising from derivative financial instruments.
c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by the diversified sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial headroom under its various facilities.
Current derivative financial instruments 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Embedded derivatives 1 Forward foreign currency contracts 1 3 2 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 5 2 3 1 6 5 4 3 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 96 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22 Financial instruments continued Non-current derivative financial instruments 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Cross currency swaps 140 155 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 6 51 Interest rate swaps 3 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 28 13 20 34 204 3 175 Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps to pay floating and receive fixed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to manage changes in the fair value of its fixed rate borrowings.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2007, the notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$1,100 million 2006: US$600 million.
The fixed interest rates received vary from 5.5% to 6.625% 2006: 5.5% to 6.625% and floating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 71.6 basis points to LIBOR plus 131.75 basis points 2006: LIBOR plus 88.75 basis points to LIBOR plus 131.75 basis points on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2007, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$1,117 million 2006: US$580 million.
Cash flow hedges The group has entered into interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to manage the interest rate on borrowings.
The notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$324 million equivalent 2006: US$ nil.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps were US$ nil 2006: US$ nil.
The fixed interest rates paid vary from 4.1% to 5.4% and the floating rates received are LIBOR plus zero basis points.
As at 31 March 2007, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$324 million 2006: US$ nil.
The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures on expected future trade imports and exports.
As at 31 March 2007, the notional amount of these contracts were 121 million.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, the Czech Republic and Poland to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Net losses relating to forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps of US$2 million 2006: US$2 million have been recognised in equity.
Analysis of notional amounts on financial instruments designated as net investment hedges: 2007 2006 m m Forward foreign currency contracts SA Rand 1,751 1,481 Cross currency swaps SA Rand ZAR 2,799 Polish Zloty PLN 798 Czech Krone CZK 7,888 Held for trading Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2007, the notional amounts of these contracts were: Czk10 million, 22 million and US$43 million 2006: Czk20 million, 20 million, US$55 million and ZAR57 million.
Cross currency swaps Bavaria S. A has entered into cross currency swaps to manage the fluctuation of the exchange rates over a portion of its US dollar debt.
As at 31 March 2007, the notional amount of these contracts was US$400 million 2006: US$400 million.
Cash deposits of US$17 million 2006: US$ nil are pledged as security for the cross currency swaps.
Interest rate swaps The group has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on borrowings.
These derivatives are held at fair value based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2007, the notional amount of these contracts was US$127 million 2006: US$233 million.
The fixed interest rates paid vary from 2.93% to LIBOR 2006: 1.54% to 2.93% and the floating rates received are LIBOR plus zero basis points 2006: LIBOR plus 125 basis points to LIBOR plus 475 basis points.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 97 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 22 Financial instruments continued Fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2007 2006 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Cross currency swaps 21 3 Embedded derivatives 1 3 Forward foreign currency contracts 2 3 Interest rate swaps 4 6 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 38 19 56 28 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as fair value hedges 36 18 36 18 Total fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 20 10 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings and derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings are recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on all other derivative financial instruments are recognised in operating profit.
Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities 2007 2006 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m Current financial assets and liabilities: Borrowings 1,711 1,711 1,950 1,950 Provisions 266 266 182 182 Non-current financial assets and liabilities: Borrowings 5,520 5,646 5,652 5,939 Provisions excluding pensions and post-retirement provisions 174 174 155 155 Other financial liabilities 7,671 7,797 7,939 8,226 As restated see note 28.
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
Derivatives, available for sale investments, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables are not included in the table above, because their book values are an approximation of their fair values.
The fair values of the groups fixed rate loans are calculated by discounting expected future cash flows using the appropriate yield curve.
The book values of floating rate borrowings approximate their fair values.
Interest rate profiles of financial assets and financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual repricing included within the underlying borrowings exposed to either fixed interest rates, floating interest rates or no interest rates and revises this for the repricing effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
2007 2006 Total Effect of Total Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure borrowings derivatives exposure Financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Repricing due: Within one year 3,658 1,092 4,750 4,996 855 5,851 Between one and two years 668 317 985 68490 Between two and five years 636 309 327 1,214 339 875 In five years or more 2,269 1,100 1,169 1,386 600 786 Total interest bearing 7,231 7,231 7,602 7,602 Analysed as: Fixed rate interest 3,573 1,092 2,481 2,657 767 1,890 Floating rate interest 3,658 1,092 4,750 4,945 767 5,712 Total interest bearing 7,231 7,231 7,602 7,602 As restated see note 28.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 98 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22 Financial instruments continued The effective interest rates on financial assets and liabilities at 31 March were as follows: 2007 2006 % % Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments 2.1 6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 4.1 4.4 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments 2.7 3.7 Borrowings 7.2 6.2 Available for sale investments, trade receivables and trade payables are not included in the table above because they have an interest rate of approximately 0%.
Currency profiles of financial assets and liabilities The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in foreign exchange movements in the income statement.
Trade and Derivative Cash Available other financial and cash for sale receivables instruments equivalents investments Total Financial assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m SA Rand 56 5 61 US Dollars 69 400 54 523 Euro 17 1 15 33 Other currencies 97 13 110 At 31 March 2007 239 401 87 727 SA Rand 77 7 84 US Dollars 108 401 112 2 623 Euro 17 16 1 34 Central European currencies 4 4 Other African currencies 1 1 Other currencies 98 7 8 113 At 31 March 2006 301 401 146 11 859 As restated see note 28.
Trade and Derivative other financial payables instruments Borrowings Provisions Total Financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m SA Rand 54 54 US Dollars 122 378 113 613 Euro 34 34 Other currencies 103 8 111 At 31 March 2007 313 378 121 812 SA Rand 40 1 41 US Dollars 138 513 8 659 Euro 61 1 1 4 67 Colombian Pesos 5 5 Other currencies 58 144 36 238 At 31 March 2006 302 1 659 48 1,010 As restated see note 28.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 23 Provisions Litigation Postand demerged retirement TaxationOnerous entities benefits Insurance related contracts Restructuring Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2005 59 791 32 41 17 16 33 989 Exchange adjustments 1 2 1 1 5 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 6 204 171 20 401 Charged credited to the income statement 6 83 60 5 1 143 Utilised in the year Existing 7 52 60 5 7 10 9 150 Acquired 8 2 10 Actuarial gains 42 42 Transfer to payables receivables 16 16 Amortisation of discount 1 1 At 31 March 2006 51 974 32 193 12 5 44 1,311 Exchange adjustments 1 6 5 1 11 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 3 95 62 62 4 17 243 Unused amounts reversed 3 2 1 6 Utilised in the year Existing 5 81 60 13 4 163 Actuarial losses 5 5 Transfer from payables receivables 42 42 Transfer to disposal groups 1 3 4 At 31 March 2007 44 999 34 286 10 5 61 1,439 Analysed as: Current 38 10 183 6 5 24 266 Non-current 6 999 24 103 4 37 1,173 44 999 34 286 10 5 61 1,439 As restated see note 28.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 100 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23 Provisions continued Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998, the group recognised a provision of US$117 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities in relation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, US$1 million of this provision was further utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$18 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd and have been submitted for dispute resolution to independent accountants acting as experts and not as arbitrators.
While a full provision for all claims has already been made, the actual outcome of the dispute and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the dispute.
There are US$21 million 2006: US$33 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on management expectation the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming five years.
Post-retirement benefits The provision for post-retirement benefits represents the provision for medical benefits for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their dependants in North America, and pension provisions for employees in North and South America, South Africa, Europe and Africa and Asia.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 30.
Insurance Insurance provisions of US$34 million 2006: US$32 million represent amounts provided in respect of claims made by employees for health insurance and work-related accidents.
Management estimates that the provision will be substantially utilised in the next one to two years.
Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to noncorporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are finalised with the respective tax authorities.
Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs related to Europe which management expects to be utilised within one year.
Onerous contracts The group has made provision for certain contracts which are deemed to be onerous.
The provisions are expected to be utilised within three years, in line with the period of the contracts.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are payroll related provisions of US$38 million 2006: US$24 million which includes US$9 million 2006: US$9 million within South Africa and US$10 million 2006: US$ nil within Peru relating to employee long service awards.
These are expected to be utilised on an ongoing basis when the service awards fall due.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 101 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 24 Share capital 2007 2006 US$m US$m Group and company Authorised share capital 9,420,051,230 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2006: 9,420,051,230 942 942 804,948,770 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each 2006: 804,948,770 80 80 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2006: 77,368,338 8 8 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2006: 50,000 1,030 1,030 Called up, allotted and fully-paid share capital 1,502,187,446 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2006: 1,497,844,458 150 150 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2006: 77,368,338 8 8 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2006: 50,000 158 158 Convertible Non-voting Ordinary participating convertible Deferred shares of shares of shares of shares of 10 US cents 10 US cents 10 US cents 1 Nominal each each each each value 000 000 000 000 US$m At 1 April 2005 1,101,760 167,411 77,368 50 135 Issue of shares conversion of convertible participating shares 167,411 167,411 Issue of shares acquisition of Bavaria 225,000 23 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 3,674 At 31 March 2006 1,497,845 77,368 50 158 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 4,343 At 31 March 2007 1,502,188 77,368 50 158 2007 Changes to authorised share capital There were no changes to the authorised share capital for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Changes to issued share capital During the year, the company issued 4,342,988 2006: 3,673,590 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme, the SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, the SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme and the SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme, for a consideration of US$38 million 2006: US$30 million.
2006 Changes to authorised share capital On 12 October 2005, the authorised share capital was increased from US$1,007,736,833 to US$1,030,236,833 by the creation of 225,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each.
In addition, on the same date 167,411,024 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each were converted into 167,411,023 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each.
Changes to issued share capital Upon completion of the merger with Bavaria S. A. on 12 October 2005, the company issued a total of 225,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each to BevCo LLC BevCo.
BevCo has agreed to a lock-up period in which it will not be able to sell its shares, other than in specific circumstances until 12 October 2010.
In addition, on the same date, 167,411,024 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each, held by Altria Group, Inc. Altria formerly Philip Morris Companies, Inc., were converted into 167,411,024 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each ordinary shares.
Following the conversion, Altria holds 430,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2005: 262,588,976 and the number of convertible participating shares of the company in issue was reduced to zero.
Altria was previously entitled to require the company to convert ordinary shares of 10 US cents held by it into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24 Share capital continued Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Altria was entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If such an event occurs, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the non-voting convertible shares.
Altria shall be entitled to vote its convertible participating shares at general meetings of the company on a poll on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind-up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria shall be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share, but, for the purposes of any resolution other than a resolution mentioned above, the convertible participating shares shall be treated as being of the same class as the ordinary shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders of the convertible participating shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
Upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria other than to an affiliate, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if: i a third party has made a takeover offer for the company and if such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects it would result in the voting shareholding of the third party being more than 30% of the total voting shareholding: and ii Altria has communicated to the company in writing its intention not itself to make an offer competing with such third party offer, provided that the conversion date shall be no earlier than the date on which the third partys offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if the voting shareholding of a third party should be more than 24.99%, provided that: i the number of ordinary shares held by Altria following such conversion shall be limited to one ordinary share more than the number of ordinary shares held by the third party: and ii such conversion shall at no time result in Altrias voting shareholding being equal to or greater than the voting shareholding which would require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code.
If Altria wishes to acquire additional ordinary shares other than pursuant to a pre-emptive issue of new ordinary shares or with the prior approval of the board, Altria shall first convert into ordinary shares the lesser of: i such number of convertible participating shares as would result in Altrias voting shareholding being such percentage as would, in the event of Altria subsequently acquiring one additional ordinary share, require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code: and ii all of its remaining convertible participating shares.
The company shall use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares and the non-voting convertible shares are admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading shall be sought for the convertible participating shares or the non-voting convertible shares whilst they remain convertible participating shares or non-voting convertible shares as the case may be.
Non-voting convertible shares Safari Limited Safari holds non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each.
Safari shall not be entitled to vote its non-voting convertible shares on any resolution other than a resolution to alter any of the class rights attaching to the non-voting convertible shares, in which case Safari shall be entitled to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each non-voting convertible share.
The non-voting convertible shares rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the non-voting convertible shares and the convertible participating shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the non-voting convertible shares rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the non-voting convertible shares each rank pari passu with the ordinary shares and the convertible participating shares.
The non-voting convertible shares are convertible into ordinary shares on a transfer to a third party unconnected with SABMiller, or Altria or any of their affiliates or any person deemed to be acting in concert with SABMiller or Altria.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 24 Share capital continued Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle holders thereof to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
Share-based payments The group operates various equityand cash-settled share option schemes for certain employees.
The awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: Number of Number of Ordinary Ordinary shares shares Scheme 2007 2006 Equity-settled plans Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa a 11,772,323 11,702,563 Executive Share Option Scheme Approved Scheme and No 2 Scheme b 9,688,432 9,292,221 Performance Share Award Scheme c 1,586,484 1,351,221 International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme d 2,147,892 782,724 International Employee Share Scheme e 3,379,216 3,240,267 Total equity-settled plans 28,574,347 26,368,996 Cash-settled plans International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme f 6,303,066 5,874,130 Total cash-settled plans 6,303,066 5,874,130 Total of share option schemes 34,877,413 32,243,126 Further details relating to all of the equity-settled and cash-settled share option schemes can be found in the Remuneration report in the section entitled Long-term incentive plans on page 50. a.
SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme Hong Kong and China Three year vesting SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 106 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24 Share capital continued f. International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Scheme The group issues to certain employees SAR that require the group to pay the intrinsic value of the SAR to the employee at the date of the exercise.
The group has recorded a liability of US$48 million 2006: US$32 million in respect of the SAR scheme.
The intrinsic value of liabilities which have vested at 31 March 2007 is US$16 million 2006: US$16 million.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following table: Weighted Weighted Number Weighted average Number Weighted average Total of awards average fair value of awards average fair value number of under exercise at grant under exercise at grant awards under UK option price date SA option price R date R option Outstanding at 1 April 2005 19,004,671 4.64 11,608,464 63.5 30,613,135 Granted 6,260,185 7.54 2.65 2,551,799 111.2 41.1 8,811,984 Lapsed 796,700 4.26 426,500 75.2 1,223,200 Exercised or vested 3,927,593 3.77 2,031,200 49.6 5,958,793 Outstanding at 31 March 2006 20,540,563 5.68 11,702,563 75.9 32,243,126 Granted 7,459,209 7.30 4.74 2,496,860 137.5 44.9 9,956,069 Lapsed 669,111 6.11 681,800 91.6 1,350,911 Exercised or vested 4,225,571 4.61 1,745,300 56.7 5,970,871 Outstanding at 31 March 2007 23,105,090 6.38 11,772,323 90.87 34,877,413 Awards exercised The weighted average market price of the groups shares at the date of exercise for share awards exercised or vested during the year were: Weighted Weighted average average market market Number price Number price 2007 2007 2006 2006 Share awards designated in Pounds Sterling Equity-settled 3,155,991 10.60 2,603,750 10.04 Cash-settled 1,069,580 11.02 1,323,843 10.68 4,225,571 10.70 3,927,593 10.23 Share awards designated in South African Rands Equity-settled 1,745,300 143.63 2,031,200 113.10 Total awards exercised during the year 5,970,871 5,958,793 Share-based payments have been valued using a binomial model approach except for the Performance Share awards which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with Total Shareholder Return performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMIller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the options after considering their respective volatilities.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model for share options.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year: 2007 2006 Share price South African schemes R 136.24 112.86 All other schemes 10.30 8.60 Exercise price South African schemes R 136.67 110.55 All other schemes 8.89 7.41 Expected volatility all schemes 22.5% 22.5% Dividend yield all schemes 2.1% 2.4% Annual forfeiture rate South African schemes 7.5% 12.5% All other schemes 3.0% 3.0% Risk-free interest rate South African schemes 8.0% 8.1% All other schemes 4.4% 4.3% The calculation is based on the weighted fair values of issues made during the financial year.
Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historic share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa since May 1999 and May 2001 respectively.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 108 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25 Statement of changes in shareholders equity Foreign Merger Safari currency Available Share Share relief and EBT translation for sale Retained Minority Total capital premium reserve shares reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2005 135 2,010 3,395 658 207 2,993 8,082 678 8,760 Currency translation movements on foreign currency investments 103 103 25 128 Net investment hedges fair value losses in period 2 2 2 Deferred tax charge on items taken to equity 8 8 8 Actuarial gains taken to equity 42 42 42 Acquisitions minority interests 816 816 Other movements 9 9 9 Profit for the financial year 1,440 1,440 234 1,674 Dividends paid 520 520 165 685 Issued capital 23 4,089 4,112 4,112 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 8 8 8 Utilisation of EBT shares 11 11 Payment for buyout of minorities 996 996 Equity settled share incentive plans 17 17 17 At 31 March 2006 158 6,099 3,395 655 102 3,944 13,043 542 13,585 Currency translation movements on foreign currency investments 359 359 3 362 Net investment hedges fair value losses in period 2 2 2 Fair value gains on available for sale investments 7 7 7 Deferred tax charge on items taken to equity 7 7 7 Actuarial gains taken to equity 5 5 5 Other movements 4 4 4 Profit for the financial year 1,649 1,649 234 1,883 Dividends paid 681 681 165 846 Issued capital 38 38 38 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 30 30 30 Utilisation of EBT shares 2 2 Disposal of shares in subsidiaries 7 7 Payment for buyout of minorities 26 26 Equity settled share incentive plans 31 31 31 At 31 March 2007 158 6,137 3,395 683 459 7 4,933 14,406 595 15,001 These are classified as other reserves on the group consolidated balance sheet.
The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$91 million 2006: US$107 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 25 Statement of changes in shareholders equity continued Safari and EBT shares reserve In the financial year ended 31 March 2000, Safari Limited a special purpose vehicle established and financed by a wholly-owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc acquired 77,368,338 SABMiller plc shares at an initial cost of US$560 million.
In terms of the agreement, a top-up payment of US$58 million was accrued for at 31 March 2001 and paid to the selling shareholders on 3 April 2001.
On 9 July 2002 these shares held by Safari Ltd were converted to non-voting convertible shares.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The employee benefit trusts hold shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various executive share incentive schemes, further details of which are disclosed in the report on directors remuneration.
The shares currently rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares.
At 31 March 2007 the trusts held 4,034,111 shares 2006: 3,487,448 shares which cost US$58 million 2006: US$38 million and had a market value of US$88 million 2006: US$69 million.
The trusts used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase the shares.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
Merger relief reserve In accordance with section 131 of The Companies Act 1985, the group recorded the US$3,395 million excess of value attributed to the shares issued as consideration for Miller Brewing Company over the nominal value of those shares as a merger relief reserve in the year ended 31 March 2003.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 110 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 26a Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 2007 2006 US$m US$m Profit for the year 1,883 1,674 Taxation 921 779 Share of post-tax results of associates 205 177 Interest receivable 240 78 Interest payable and similar charges 668 377 Operating profit 3,027 2,575 Depreciation: property, plant and equipment 550 444 containers 187 111 Container breakages, shrinkage and write-offs 44 77 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment and investments 6 5 Exceptional profit on sale of property, plant and equipment Europe 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 4 Amortisation of intangible assets 162 105 Unrealised net loss gain from derivatives 2 5 Dividends received from other investments 1 3 Charge with respect to share options 31 17 Restructuring and integration costs Latin America 10 7 Adjustment to goodwill Europe 31 Other non-cash movements 1 11 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements EBITDA 4,031 3,348 Increase in inventories 73 78 Increase in receivables 294 67 Increase in payables 319 86 Increase decrease in provisions 21 31 Increase in post-retirement provisions 14 33 Net cash generated from operations 4,018 3,291 Cash generated from operations include cash flows relating to exceptional items of US$37 million in respect of South American and European integration and restructuring costs 2006: US$8 million.
26b Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents Total cash Loan Derivative Total excluding and cash participation financial Finance gross Net overdrafts Overdrafts equivalents deposit Borrowings instruments leases borrowings debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2005 1,143 513 630 2,833 12 19 2,840 2,210 Exchange adjustments 2 13 11 63 63 74 Cash flow 651 179 472 196 2,102 28 2,074 2,350 Acquisitions 232 3 229 2,651 138 36 2,825 2,596 Other movements 22 47 25 25 At 31 March 2006 as restated, see note 28 722 324 398 196 7,501 173 27 7,701 7,107 Exchange adjustments 24 6 18 4 47 1 48 62 Cash flow 220 133 87 200 537 28 7 572 285 Acquisitions 3 2 1 1 Transfer to disposal groups 2 2 4 4 Other movements 20 18 4 2 2 At 31 March 2007 481 187 294 7,029 127 15 7,171 6,877 SABMiller plc acquired two 100% participations in bank loans owned by subsidiary companies totalling US$446 million that were outstanding for the financial year ended 31 March 2006.
For US$250 million of this balance, the terms of the participation agreement confer full rights of set-off on SABMiller plc in respect of the related bank loan.
As a result, this loan participation is offset within borrowings on the balance sheet.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement it is treated as a cash and cash equivalent as it is readily convertible in accordance with IAS 7 Cash flow statements.
For the remaining balance of US$196 million, the terms of the agreement include no right of set-off and therefore loan participation has been separately disclosed on the balance sheet as a loan participation deposit.
In the cash flow statement the participation has not been treated as a cash and cash equivalent as it is not readily convertible into cash.
Both these agreements have been settled during 2007.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 111 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 26b Analysis of net debt continued Reconciliation of borrowings and cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts from the cash flow to the balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents excluding Total gross overdrafts borrowings US$m US$m Cash flow at 31 March 2006 722 8,025 Legal right of offset 250 250 Balance sheet at 31 March 2006 472 7,775 Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash flow as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 481 472 Overdrafts 187 324 Legal right of offset 250 Cash and cash equivalents cash flow 294 398 The groups net debt is denominated in the following currencies: Colombian Other US dollars SA rand Euro peso currencies Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total cash and cash equivalents 174 46 28 45 179 472 Loan participation deposit 196 196 Total gross borrowings including overdrafts 4,418 225 253 2,051 828 7,775 Net debt at 31 March 2006 4,244 179 225 2,006 453 7,107 Total cash and cash equivalents 129 19 36 77 220 481 Total gross borrowings including overdrafts 4,580 389 267 1,384 738 7,358 Net debt at 31 March 2007 4,451 370 231 1,307 518 6,877 As restated see note 28.
26c Major non-cash transactions 2007 No major non-cash transactions occurred during the year.
2006 During October 2005, SABMiller plc issued 225 million ordinary shares as consideration for the investment in Bavaria S. A. SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 112 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27 Acquisitions and disposals The following significant business combinations took effect during the year: Asia Fosters India On 12 September 2006, SABMiller plc, through its wholly-owned subsidiary SABMiller A&A 2 Limited, completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Fosters India for a cash consideration of US$127 million on a debt-free basis.
Under the terms of the transaction, SABMiller assumed ownership of all Fosters assets in India, including the Fosters brand in the territory.
Other Minor acquisitions of distributors were made in Europe during the year.
All business combinations All business combinations have been accounted for using the purchase method.
All assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The following table represents the assets and liablities acquired in respect of all business combinations entered into during the year ended 31 March 2007: Provisional fair value US$m Intangible assets 44 Property, plant and equipment 11 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 7 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Borrowings 2 Trade and other payables 11 53 Goodwill 78 Consideration 131 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 131 From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2007 the following amounts have been included in the groups income and cash flow statements for the year: Other Fosters acquisitions Total US$m US$m US$m Income statement Revenue 15 15 Operating profit Profit before tax 1 1 There was no material impact on the cash flow statement resulting from the operating activities of acquisitions during the year.
Pro forma information Pro forma information has not been provided because the information required for the above acquisitions under the groups accounting policies is not available.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 27 Acquisitions and disposals continued Fosters India Carrying values Provisional pre acquistion fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 38 Property, plant and equipment 911 Inventories 11 Trade and other receivables 24 Cash and cash equivalents 33 Trade and other payables 4 8 11 49 Net assets acquired 49 Provisional goodwill 78 Consideration 127 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 127 The fair value adjustments include provisional amounts which will be finalised in the 2008 annual report and accounts.
Goodwill represents amongst other things, the following: existing distribution network strategic premium for the brewing assets that benefit from first mover advantage supplying smaller regional markets assembled work force value of synergies The outflow inflow of cash and cash equivalents on the initial Fosters India transaction is calculated as follows: US$m Cash consideration 127 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 3 124 The intangible assets acquired as part of the initial Fosters India transaction can be analysed as follows: US$m Brands 38 Minority interests The following minority interests were acquired for a total consideration of US$183 million with additional goodwill of US$121 million recognised.
Effective holding after acquisition of minority Form of % acquired interest consideration Region Axin y Cia S. C. A.
0.8 99% Cash Colombia Union fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston S. A.
0.2 93% Cash Peru Cervecera San Juan S. A.
12.5 86% Cash Peru Compaia fide Cervezas Nacionales C. A.
3.6 97% Cash Ecuador Cervecera Andina S. A.
4.5 97% Cash Ecuador Pivovar Topvar a. s. 52.0 100% Cash Slovakia Disposals There were no disposals of subsidiaries during the year ended 31 March 2007 or the year ended 31 March 2006.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 114 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 28 Restatement of the Balance Sheet at 31 March 2006 The initial accounting under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, for the Bavaria Group transaction had not been completed as at 31 March 2006.
During the period ended 11 October 2006, adjustments to provisional fair values in respect of the Bavaria Group transaction were made.
As a result comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2006 has been presented as if the further adjustments to provisional fair values had been made from the transaction date of 12 October 2005.
The impact on the prior period income statement has been reviewed and no material adjustments to the Income Statement as a result of the adjustments to provisional fair values are required and therefore there is no adjustment to basic or diluted earnings per share.
The following table reconciles the impact on the balance sheet reported for the year ended 31 March 2006 to the comparative balance sheet presented in these financial statements.
Balance Sheet Adjustments to At 31 March At 31 March provisional fair 2006 2006 values as restated US$m US$m US$m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 12,539 275 12,814 Intangible assets 3,596 3,596 Property, plant and equipment 6,340 3 6,337 Investment in associates 1,067 66 1,133 Available for sale investments 41 2 43 Derivative financial instruments 3 3 Trade and other receivables 87 1 86 Deferred tax assets 278 4 274 23,951 335 24,286 Current assets Inventories 881 3 878 Trade and other receivables 1,218 7 1,225 Other current assets 726 726 2,825 4 2,829 Total assets 26,776 339 27,115 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 2,473 59 2,414 Current tax liabilities 283 33 316 Provisions 98 84 182 Other current liabilities 1,953 1,953 4,807 58 4,865 Non-current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 175 175 Borrowings 5,632 20 5,652 Trade and other payables 63 209 272 Provisions 1,088 41 1,129 Deferred tax liabilities 1,412 25 1,437 8,370 295 8,665 Total liabilities 13,177 353 13,530 Net assets 13,599 14 13,585 Total equity 13,599 14 13,585 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 29 Commitments, contingencies and guarantees a.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March 2007 are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 18 13 Later than one year and less than five years 33 31 After five years 27 28 78 72 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 26 18 Later than one year and less than five years 48 29 After five years 12 2 86 49 b.
Other commitments 2007 2006 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information: Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 590 388 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 59 12 Other commitments not provided in the financial information: Contracts placed for future expenditure 576 527 Contracts placed for future expenditure primarily relate to Millers various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments which, at 31 March 2007, are principally due between 2007 and 2013.
In addition, Miller has various long-term supply contracts with unrelated third parties to purchase certain materials used in its production and packaging process.
The terms of these contracts generally stipulate that Miller must use the designated suppliers for expected minimum percentages of its annual purchase requirements of the specified materials.
However, Miller is not obliged to make any purchases unless it requires supplies of such materials.
Supply contracts outstanding at 31 March 2007 for malt, bottles, labels and cans expire between 2007 and 2015. c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2007 2006 US$m US$m Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of borrowings of certain subsidiary undertakings 4,750 2,000 US$600 million 4.25% Guaranteed Notes 2008 600 600 US$1,100 million 5.50% Guaranteed Notes 2013 1,100 1,100 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2033 300 300 US$300 million LIBOR 0.30% Notes due 2009 300 US$600 million 6.20% Notes due 2011 600 US$850 million 6.50% Notes due 2016 850 Commercial paper 1,000 Staff loans and pension guarantees i 24 27 Guarantees in respect of Tsogo Sun see note 31b 106 Jointly held contingent liability ii 150 150 Share of associates contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other investors 4 6 Share of associates contingent liabilities arising from the group being liable for all or part of the liabilities of the associate 76 Litigation iii 4 2 Other iv 4,932 2,367 These represent the maximum amounts guaranteed by SABMiller plc, the company.
The aggregate actual amounts outstanding and disclosed as part of borrowings note 21 is US$4,409 million as at 31 March 2007 2006: US$1,974 million.
i Staff loans and pension guarantees Staff loans and pension guarantees above primarily relate to the present value of Miller pension guarantees.
Miller and Pabst Brewing Company Pabst are responsible for the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
In connection with Pabsts closure of its Milwaukee, Wisconsin brewery and its contract brewing agreement with Miller, Pabst entered into a withdrawal liability settlement agreement which requires annual payments by Pabst to this pension plan of approximately US$4 million until 2013.
In the event that Pabst is unable to fulfil its pension plan obligation, the plan would have recourse to all the assets of Pabst and its parent company.
If such assets do not satisfy Pabsts remaining pension obligation, Miller would be required to fund the remaining Pabst withdrawal liability until 2013.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 116 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued ii Jointly held contingent liability Bavaria S. A. is jointly and severally liable with Valorem S. A. part of Santo Domingo Group SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca S. A. formerlly part of the SDG group but which was sold by SDG in 2004.
The maximum obligation is for $150 million which corresponds to the initial actuarial value of the pensions obligation.
iii Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
The company, with Miller Brewing Company, in common with other participants in the beer and spirits industries in the USA, is a defendant in putative class action lawsuits alleging that the defendants have intentionally targeted the marketing of certain alcoholic beverage brands to persons under the legal drinking age.
The plaintiffs allege several causes of action, including violations of state consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, negligence, public nuisance, and civil conspiracy.
The complaints seek, on behalf of a putative class of parents and guardians, an injunction to stop certain unspecified marketing practices and unspecified money damages including civil fines, punitive damages, and disgorgement of profits.
None of the lawsuits has progressed past the pleading stage.
Of the nine lawsuits filed, two have been withdrawn and in six the defendants motions to dismiss the cases have been upheld.
In five of these cases, appeals against the decisions to dismiss the cases are pending, while in one the appeal has been dismissed.
A ruling on the defendants motion to dismiss is awaited in the remaining case.
Given their current status, there are not yet meaningful bases upon which the potential for liability and any quantum of penalty or damages can be determined.
iv Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002 to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
30 Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups finances.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benefits, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, Miller and Latin America.
Miller provides post-retirement benefits, as well as retiree medical and life insurance benefits, which are unfunded, to eligible employees and their dependants.
Salaried non-union employees hired after 31 August 2003 are not eligible for company subsidised retiree medical benefits.
The pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs for the years ended 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2006 are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m Defined contribution scheme costs 79 63 Defined benefit pension plan costs 41 33 Post-retirement medical and other benefit costs 54 50 Accruals for defined contribution plans 7 9 Provisions for defined benefit pension plans balance sheet 363 328 Provisions for other post-retirement benefits balance sheet 636 646 The group operates various defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Details of the main defined benefit schemes is provided below: Miller pension schemes Effective 31 December 2005, Miller merged nine defined benefit plans into the Miller Pension Plan, a single qualified defined benefit scheme covering both salaried non-union and union employees whilst maintaining separate benefit structures across the various employee groups.
Substantially all salaried non-union employees hired prior to 1 January 2005 are covered by the plan which provides benefits for this employee group based on final average pay and years of service.
Benefit accruals will cease as of 31 December 2007.
Benefit accruals for hourly employees are the subject of collective bargaining and are based on a flat rate per year of service.
As of 31 March 2007, the plan had a deficit of US$110 million given plan assets with an actuarial value of US$929 million.
This represents a funding level of 89%.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 30 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Salaried non-union employees hired after 31 December 2004 are covered by a qualified defined contribution plan.
This plan provides a basic contribution equal to 5% of an employees pay.
Salaried non-union employees hired prior to 1 January 2005 will be eligible for the 5% basic contribution beginning 1 January 2008.
Regardless of hire date, the company contributes up to 4% of an employees pay to this plan, based on the employees own contributions.
In addition, substantially all salaried employees are covered by a survivor income benefit plan and a long-term disability plan.
The company provides non-qualified unfunded defined benefit and defined contribution plans for certain employees whose benefits under the qualified plans are limited by regulation.
As of 31 March 2007 the liabilities for these plans are US$18 million and US$1 million respectively.
Eligible hourly employees also participate in various defined contribution schemes, some of which require the employer to contribute funds based on the number of hours worked by the employee.
The most recent actuarial valuation of Millers post-retirement plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 1 January 2006 using the projected unit credit method.
Certain of Millers hourly employees participate in the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
As part of a withdrawal settlement, Pabst, which had participated in the plan prior to 1997, agreed to make annual contributions of approximately US$4 million to this plan until 2013.
The plans funded status net of the present value of Pabsts withdrawal payments at 31 March 2007 is set out below.
US$m Market value of assets 43 Present value of accrued obligations, net of Pabst withdrawal liabilities 83 Deficit 40 South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major scheme are provided below: The ABI pension fund this is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of the ABI pension fund was carried out at 30 June 2005 and updated at 31 March 2007 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation are listed below.
From 1 July 2005 the Fund was closed, all active members were transferred to either the ABI Provident Fund or the SAB Staff Provident Fund.
The fund will be deregistered once the surplus apportionment exercise has been completed in terms of the Pension Fund Act and all assets and liabilities transferred.
Bavaria pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout Latin America.
Details of the major scheme are provided below: The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan this is an unfunded scheme of the defined benefit type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is financed entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 31 December 2006 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by the Social Security provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations are set out below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Miller Africa Other %%%%%%% At 31 March 2007: Discount rate 5.9 7.8 8.7 4.8 5.9 7.5 8.7 Salary inflation 3.5 5.8 4.3 3.0 Pension inflation 4.0 4.5 4.3 3.0 Healthcare cost inflation 9.6 5.8 5.3 Mortality rate assumptions: Retirement age: Males 61 63 55 n a 62 63 55 Females 61 63 50 n a 62 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 21 16 20 n a 20 16 20 Females 24 20 25 n a 23 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 21 n a n a n a 20 16 n a Females 24 n a n a n a 23 20 n a SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 118 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Miller Africa Other %%%%%%% At 31 March 2006: Discount rate 5.9 9.0 8.9 5.1 5.9 7.0 9.3 Salary inflation 3.5 6.0 4.5 3.9 Pension inflation 4.0 4.3 4.5 3.4 Healthcare cost inflation 9.0 5.0 5.7 Mortality rate assumptions: Retirement age: Males 61 63 55 n a 62 63 55 Females 61 63 50 n a 62 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 21 16 20 n a 20 16 20 Females 24 20 25 n a 23 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 21 n a n a n a 20 16 n a Females 24 n a n a n a 23 20 n a The present value of defined benefit plan and post-employment medical benefit liabilities are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2005 1,007 47 38 1,092 545 44 1 590 Benefits paid 44 1 10 13 68 21 21 Current service costs 28 1 8 4 41 13 1 14 Past service costs 1 1 Interest costs 58 4 1 63 32 4 36 Actuarial losses gains 10 10 21 21 Acquisition activity 155 1 156 48 48 Currency translations 2 2 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2006 1,060 51 153 29 1,293 548 49 49 646 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 18 144 4 166 548 47 48 643 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,042 51 9 25 1,127 2 1 3 Benefits paid 54 19 6 79 25 4 29 Current service costs 28 9 4 41 12 1 13 Past service costs 47 47 Interest costs 61 4 10 1 76 33 3 6 42 Actuarial losses gains 56 10 5 71 30 3 1 28 Settlements 25 25 1 1 Currency translations 9 9 4 4 10 3 7 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2007 1,151 78 167 32 1,428 537 46 53 636 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 18 167 3 188 537 45 51 633 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,133 78 29 1,240 1 2 3 As restated see note 28.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 30 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair value reconciliations of opening plan assets to closing plan assets, on an aggregated basis, are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans South Miller Africa Total US$m US$m US$m Plan assets at 1 April 2005 844 115 959 Expected return on plan assets 67 9 76 Benefits paid 44 1 45 Contributions paid by employer 16 16 Actuarial gains 31 31 Currency translations 11 Plan asset at 31 March 2006 914 124 1,038 Expected return on plan assets 72 8 80 Benefits paid 54 54 Contributions paid by employer 27 27 Actuarial gains 28 37 65 Settlements 25 25 Currency translations 19 19 Plan asset at 31 March 2007 987 125 1,112 The fair value of assets in pension schemes and the expected rates of return were: Miller South Africa Latin America Other Total Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term rate of rate of rate of rate of US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m At 31 March 2007: Equities 484 9.0 66 12.0 550 Bonds 301 6.5 37 9.0 338 Cash 3.0 21 7.0 21 International equities 153 9.0 10.8 153 Property and other 49 7.0 1 10.8 50 Total fair value of assets 987 125 1,112 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,151 78 167 32 1,428 Deficit surplus in the scheme 164 47 167 32 316 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 47 47 Pension liability recognised 164 167 32 363 At 31 March 2006 : Equities 455 9.0 48 12.0 503 Bonds 316 6.5 11 9.0 327 Cash 2 3.0 48 7.0 50 International equities 136 9.0 17 12.0 153 Property and other 5 7.0 12.0 5 Total fair value of assets 914 124 1,038 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,060 51 153 29 1,293 Deficit surplus in the scheme 146 73 153 29 255 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 73 73 Pension liability recognised 146 153 29 328 As restated see note 28.
The expected long-term rate of return on Miller fund assets is 8%.
This is determined by considering the weighted expected return of each asset class within the fund, based on input from both Russell Investments, the Miller Pension Plans investment manager and Hewitt Associates, the Plans actuary.
All funds are actively managed and returns are based on both the expected performance of the asset class and the performance of fund managers.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 120 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2007: Present value of scheme liabilities 1,151 78 167 32 1,428 537 46 53 636 Fair value of plan assets 987 125 1,112 164 47 167 32 316 537 46 53 636 Unrecognised assets due to limit 47 47 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 164 167 32 363 537 46 53 636 At 31 March 2006 : Present value of scheme liabilities 1,060 51 153 29 1,293 548 49 49 646 Fair value of plan assets 914 124 1,038 146 73 153 29 255 548 49 49 646 Unrecognised assets due to limit 73 73 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 146 153 29 328 548 49 49 646 As restated see note 28.
In respect of South Africa, the pension asset recognised must be limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet been performed.
In addition, the net income statement charge of US$43 million 2006: credit of US$4 million and net actuarial gain taken directly to equity of US$27 million 2006: US$nil are not recognised in the financial statements.
The amounts recognised in net operating expenses in the income statement are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2007: Current service costs 28 9 4 41 12 1 13 Interest costs 61 10 1 72 33 3 6 42 Expected return on plan assets 72 72 Settlements and curtailments 1 1 17 19 5 41 44 4 6 54 At 31 March 2006: Current service costs 28 8 4 40 13 1 14 Past service costs 1 1 Interest costs 58 1 59 32 4 36 Expected return on plan assets 67 67 20 8 5 33 45 5 50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 30 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Medical and other post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2007: Actual return on plan assets 100 100 Less: expected return on plan assets 72 72 Return on plan assets 28 28 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 28 28 scheme liabilities 62 62 22 22 Changes in actuarial assumptions 6 5 1 8 3 1 6 Actuarial losses gains recognised 28 5 33 30 3 1 28 At 31 March 2006: Actual return on plan assets 98 98 Less: expected return on plan assets 67 67 Return on plan assets 31 31 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 31 31 scheme liabilities 4 4 18 18 Changes in actuarial assumptions 14 14 3 3 Actuarial gains losses recognised 21 21 21 21 The cumulative amounts recognised in equity are as follows: 2007 2006 US$m US$m At 31 March: 168 210 Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 5 42 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised 173 168 History of actuarial gains and losses 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m Experience gains losses of plan assets 28 31 15 Percentage of plan assets 3% 3% 2% Experience losses gains of scheme liabilities 62 4 21 Percentage of scheme liabilities 3% 0% 1% Fair value of plan assets 1,112 1,038 959 Present value of scheme liabilities 2,064 1,939 1,682 Deficit in the schemes 952 901 723 Unrecognised assets due to limit 47 73 68 Net liability recognised in balance sheet 999 974 791 Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major defined benefit schemes during the annual period after 31 March 2007 are US$128 million.
A 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed healthcare cost of inflation will have the following effect on the groups major postemployment medical benefits: 2007 Increase Decrease US$m US$m Current service costs 3 2 Interest costs 6 5 Accumulated post-employment medical benefit costs 84 69 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 122 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31 Related party transactions a.
Parties with significant influence over the group: Altria Group, Inc. Altria and Santo Domingo Group SDG The Miller Brewing Company has received various services from Altria, which holds a 28.6% shareholding in SABMiller plc, including insurance claims processing, leasehold accommodation and other administrative services, with an aggregate cost of US$0.4 million 2006: US$0.2 million, of which US$nil million 2006: US$nil million was outstanding at 31 March 2007.
The Santo Domingo Group SDG is a related party of the group by virtue of its 15% shareholding in SABMiller plc.
In the current year, the group has carried out transactions with other companies in the SDG totalling US$0.1 million 2006: US$5.2 million.
At 31 March 2007, US$0.6 million 2006: US$0.5 million was owing to the SDG.
Bavaria S. A. is jointly and severally liable with Valorem S. A. part of the SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca S. A. a former part of the SDG which was sold by the SDG in 2004.
The maximum obligation is for US$150 million which corresponds to the initial actuarial value of the obligation.
Associates 2007 2006 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 213 232 2 Sales to associates 2 1 3 Dividends received 102 71 3 Preference dividends and interest received 8 4 Management and guarantee fees received 3 4 5 Royalties received 2 1 The group purchases canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Limited Coca-Cola and purchases inventory from Metalforma S. A. Industria Nacional fide Plasticos S. A. and Envases del Istmo S. A. in Panama and purchased malt and bottles from Delta Corporation Ltd Delta.
2 The group made sales of beer to Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Limited Tsogo Sun.
3 The group received dividends from Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel of US$22 million 2006: US$23 million, Kenya Breweries Limited Kenya US$5 milion 2006: US$18 million, Coca-Cola US$5 million 2006: US$13 million, Distell Group Limited of US$14 million 2006: US$12 million and Tsogo Sun US$56 million 2006: US$5 million.
No preference dividends or interest was received from Tsogo Sun as all outstanding borrowings and outstanding preference share capital payable to SABSA Holdings Proprietary Limited SABSA was repaid during the year ended 31 March 2006 see note 13.
4 The group received management fees from Delta Corporation Limited Delta and guarantee fees from Tsogo Sun.
5 The group received royalties from Delta and Kenya.
At At 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 1 Amounts owed by associates 1 2 2 Amounts owed to associates 31 20 1 Amounts owed by Delta and Kenya.
2 Amounts owed by SAB Ltd to Coca-Cola Canners Pty Ltd.
Guarantees 2007 2006 US$m US$m 1 Lease commitment 52 2 ABSA Bank Ltd facility 54 106 1 SABSA had previously guaranteed the lease commitments of Tsogo Sun in respect of the Sandton Convention Centre, based on a total capital cost of ZAR320 million.
SABSA was released from their guarantee through the assumption of the commitment by Firstrand Bank Ltd, against an indemnity from Tsogo Sun with effect from 1 July 2006.
2 During the year, the facility was renegotiated and the guarantee by SABSA was withdrawn, with ABSA thereafter taking direct unsupported credit risk on the borrower.
Castel During October 2006, the group disposed of a 49% effective interest in its Comoros and Mayotte operations to Castel for a consideration of US$7 million.
Consideration of US$1 million was paid in relation to the investments in the groups Algerian associates during 2006. c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the Excom as key management.
At 31 March 2007 there are 24 members of key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 32 Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows: Effective interest in Country of Principal ordinary share capital Name incorporation activity 2007 2006 Central administration SABMiller Holdings Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 5 SABMiller Finance BV Netherlands Holding and finance company 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Pty Limited South Africa Holding company 100% 100% 5 SABMiller Africa and Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller Latin America Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% North American operations Miller Brewing Company USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brewing West Limited Partnership USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brewing East Inc USA Brewing 100% 100% Miller Products Company USA Intellectual Property Marketing 100% 100% MBC1 LLC USA Brewing 100% 100% MBC2 LLC USA Brewing 100% 100% Latin American operations 3 Bavaria S. A. Colombia Brewing Softdrinks Water 99% 97% Cervecera Leona S. A. Colombia Brewing 99% 98% Cervecera Unon S. A. Colombia Brewing 98% 96% 3 4 Union fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston S. A.
A Peru Brewing 93% 93% 3 4 Cervecera San Juan S. A. Peru Brewing CSDs Water 86% 75% 3 4 Compaia Cervecera del Sur del Peru S. A. Peru Brewing 90% 84% 3 Cervecera Andina S. A. Ecuador Brewing 86% 69% 3 Compaia fide Cervezas Nacionales C. A. Ecuador Brewing 97% 92% Latin Development Corporation Panama Holding company 100% 97% 3 Cervecera Nacional S. A. Panama Brewing 90% 89% Bevco Limited British Virgin Islands Holding company 100% 100% Corporacin Cervecera Hondurea S. A. Honduras Distribution company 98% 98% Cervecera Hondurea, S. A. Honduras Brewing CSDs 98% 98% Industrias La Constancia, S. A. El Salvador Brewing CSDs Water 100% 100% European operations 5 SABMiller Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% S. p. A. Birra Peroni Italy Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries S. A. Romania Brewing 99% 99% Compania Cervecera fide Canarias SA Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Rt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% Kaluga Brewing Company Limited Responsibility Society Russia Brewing 100% 100% 1 Kompania Piwowarska S. A. Poland Brewing 72% 72% Plzensky Prazdr oj, a. s. Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Limited United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% 2 Pivovary Topvar a. s. Slovakia Brewing 100% SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 124 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 32 Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings continued Effective interest in Country of Principal ordinary share capital Name incorporation activity 2007 2006 African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% 3 Accra Breweries Ltd Ghana Brewing 43% 43% Botswana Breweries Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 3 Cervejas fide Moambique SARL Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda Ltd Angola CSDs 28% 28% Coca-Cola Bottling Sud fide Angola SARL Angola CSDs 37% 37% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% Kgalagadi Breweries Ltd Botswana Brewing CSDs 31% 31% Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing CSDs 24% 24% 3 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 60% 60% Swaziland Brewers Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 3 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 33% 33% 3 Zambian Breweries Ltd Zambia Brewing CSDs 54% 54% Asian operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller India Ltd India Holding company 100% 100% Skol Breweries India Ltd India Brewing 99% 99% Fosters India Private Ltd India Brewing 100% % South African operations The South African Breweries Ltd South Africa Brewing CSDs Holding company 100% 100% The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% Southern Associated Maltsters Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices and water 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Poland BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller Europe, holds 71.9% of Kompania Piwowarska SA at 31 March 2007.
2 After the acquisition of its remaining minority interests during the year, Pivovar Topvar a. s 2006: 48% merged with Pivovar Saris a. s. 2006: 100% to form a new entity called Pivovary Topvar a. s. which is 100% owned by BBG Austria, a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller Europe BV.
3 Listed in country of incorporation.
4 This is based on the effective economic interest.
The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above only includes those subsidiary undertakings which materially affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
With the exception of the companies noted in 5 above, the principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows: African operations The groups effective interest in its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to SABMiller Africa BVs majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd SABMiller Africa holds a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas 10.1% indirect interest 2006: 10.1% is held via a 16.8% interest 2006: 16.8% in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing SABMiller Africa holds a 39% interest in Lesotho Brewing with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, and the Commonwealth Development Corporation 10%.
Lesotho Brewing is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day-to-day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL CCBL SABMiller Africa is the largest shareholder in CCBL with a 45% holding.
Management control is exercised through a contractual agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued 32 Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings continued Associated undertakings The principal associated undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associated undertaking is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest in Country of Principal ordinary share capital Name incorporation activity 2007 2006 African operations 1 2 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Brewing CSDs 22% 22% 2 5 Kenya Breweries Ltd Kenya Brewing 12% 12% 6 Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales France Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 6 Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Gibraltar Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 3 6 Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Services Morocco Brewing 40% 40% 4 6 Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest, Algerien Algeria CSDs 40% 40% 4 6 Skikda Bottling Company Algeria CSDs 40% 40% 4 6 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Brewing 40% 40% 4 6 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Algeria Brewing 25% 25% Asian operations 6 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Holding company for brewing Islands and bottled water subsidiaries located in China 49% 49% Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Sales and distribution 50% South African Operations 6 Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Canning of beverages 32% 32% 1 5 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Wines and spirits 29% 30% Hotels and Gaming Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company for Hotels and Gaming operations 49% 49% Notes: 1 Listed in country of incorporation.
2 Interests in these companies are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Africa and Asia BV.
3 SABMiller acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a depot in Morocco.
This 25% interest together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40%, the other 60% is held by the Castel groups Africa beverage interests.
4 Effective 18 March 2004, SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
5 These entities report their financial results for each twelve-month period ending 30 June 6 These entities report their financial results for each twelve-month period ending 31 December The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel group principal subsidiaries are in Africa and China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 126
