STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES on the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the group financial In addition, the Companies Act 1985 requires directors to provide the statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
groups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated financial for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have directors, having made appropriate enquiries, confirm that: prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit European Union.
The consolidated financial statements are required information of which the groups auditors are unaware by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have and of the profit or loss of the group for that year.
taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant In preparing those consolidated financial statements the directors audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are are required to: aware of that information Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow consistently forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the current financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the directors are Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and have continued to and prudent adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
State that the consolidated financial statements comply with A copy of the financial statements of the group and the company are IFRSs as adopted by the European Union placed on the companys website.
The directors are responsible for Prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the on the companys website.
Information published on the internet is group will continue in business accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and The directors confirm that they have complied with the above dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation requirements in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Statement of directors responsibilities 58
