Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SHAREHOLDERS DIARY Financial reporting calendar and annual general meeting Annual general meeting.
July Announcement of interim results, for half-year to September.
November Preliminary announcement of annual results.
May Annual financial statements published.
June Dividends Declared Paid Ordinary: Interim November Late December Final May August STRATE Dealings and settlements on the JSE Limited JSE are now exclusively in electronic form through the STRATE system such that share certificates are no longer good for delivery on that exchange.
Shareholders resident in South Africa who currently retain their share certificates and who may wish to deal on the JSE are advised to contact Computershare Johannesburg or their professional adviser regarding the options available to enable them to do so through the STRATE system.
Unsolicited investment advice warning to shareholders The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and the Financial Services Authority FSA in the United Kingdom have published a joint warning to shareholders: Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
uk register The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at: www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk A new multi-agency operation was launched in January 2007 to target boiler room scams and to gather information from consumers who have been approached by, or been a victim of boiler room operators.
Operation Archway, an initiative by the City of London police, combines resources from the FSA, the Serious Fraud Office, the Serious Organised Crime Agency and every police force in the country.
To report any approaches made by suspected boiler rooms to the FSA consumer helpline please e-mail operationarchway@cityoflondon.
South African shareholders may report such approaches to the Financial Services Board FSB on: Toll Free: 0800 10443 Facsimile: 012 347 0221 E-mail: Info@fsb.
co. za Complete the FSB online complaint form which can be found on their website www.
co. za Shareholders diary SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 143
