122 Additional information | Notice of meeting Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the twentieth Annual General Meeting of 12 That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional The Sage Group plc will be held at North Park, Newcastle upon Tyne authority to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of NE13 9AA at 10.00am on 28 February 2008 for the following purposes: section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the directors shall To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which determine PROVIDED THAT: resolutions 1 to 10 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 11 to 13 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions: The maximum number of ordinary shares which may be acquired pursuant to this authority is 130,416,015 ordinary shares in the capital 1 To receive and consider the audited accounts for the year ended of the Company: 30 September 2007 together with the reports of the directors and This authority shall expire on 31 March 2009, or if earlier, at the the auditors.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting: and The minimum price which may be paid for each such ordinary share is 2 To declare a final dividend recommended by the directors of 5.73p its nominal value and the maximum price is the higher of 105% of the per ordinary share for the year ended 30 September 2007 to be paid on average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived 7 March 2008 to members whose names appear on the register at the from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business close of business on 8 February 2008. days immediately before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each 3 To re-elect Mr A J Hobson as a director.
4 To re-elect Ms T Ingram as a director.
13 That with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, the articles of association produced to the meeting and initialled by the 5 To elect Mr I Mason as a director.
Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the 6 To elect Mr D H Clayton as a director.
exclusion of, the existing articles of association.
7 To elect Mr M E Rolfe as a director.
By Order of the Board 8 To re-appoint Messrs  LLP as auditors to the M J Robinson Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Secretary 9 To approve the Remuneration report forwarded to shareholders with this Registered office: Notice of Annual General Meeting.
North Park, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 9AA 18 January 2008 10 That: Subject to and in accordance with article 6 of the Companys articles of association, the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 4,347,333: All previous authorities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect: and This authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
11 That: Subject to and in accordance with article 7 of the Companys articles of association, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash and that, for the purposes of paragraph 1 b of article 7, the nominal amount to which this power is limited is 652,100: and The power given to directors by this resolution be extended to sales for cash of any shares which the Company may hold as treasury shares.
123 Financial Statements | Group Notes: ix Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section i A member entitled to attend and to speak and vote at the meeting may appoint one 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person or more proxies to attend and to speak and vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was also be a member.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy nominated the Relevant Member, have a right to be appointed or to have someone is appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares.
If you wish your proxy else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has to speak on your behalf at the Annual General Meeting you will need to appoint your no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under own choice of proxy not the Chairman and give your instructions directly to them.
any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Your main point of contact in terms of your investment in the ii To be valid, a Form of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority if any Company remains the Relevant Member or, perhaps, your custodian or broker and under which it is signed or a duly certified copy thereof must be lodged with the you should continue to contact them and not the Company regarding any changes Companys Registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DX, or queries relating to your personal details and your interest in the Company including or received via the sharevote website, no later than 10.00am on 26 February 2008. any administrative matters.
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly The completion and return of a Form of Proxy will not prevent a member who wishes requests a response from you.
to do so from attending and voting in person.
A Form of Proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
x The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies In relation to appointing a proxy through the CREST electronic proxy appointment in note i above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these service, please see note xii below.
paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
iii If you do not have a Form of Proxy and believe you should have one, or if xi As at 17 January 2008 being the last business day prior to the publication of you require additional forms, please contact the Companys registrars, Equiniti, this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 1,304,699,870 ordinary on 0870 600 3970. shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 17 January 2008 are 1,304,699,870. iv In light of the current uncertainty regarding the application of certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to corporate representatives, and in order to xii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and in place at the meeting so that: any adjournment s of that meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those If a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all the CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland those directions: and Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information required for such If more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated appointments specified in note ii above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be corporate representative.
taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described above.
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings These arrangements may, however, be amended if necessary in order to reflect any and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
developments in best practice prior to the Annual General Meeting.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a v Copies of the service contracts and terms of appointment of the directors are voting service provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service available for inspection at North Park, Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE13 9AA during normal provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted and will be available at transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning vi The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as Regulations 2001, specifies that only those members registered in the register of invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 26 February 2008 or, in the event that of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. this meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect xiii If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in The Sage Group plc of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries in please forward this document, together with the form s of proxy as soon as possible the register of members after 6.00pm on 26 February 2008 or, in the event that this to the purchaser or other agent through or to whom the sale or transfer was effected meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
xiv Except as provided above, members who have general queries about the Annual General Meeting should use the following means of communication no other vii Copies of the existing articles of association and proposed new articles of methods of communication will be accepted : calling our shareholder helpline on association are available for inspection at the offices of the Company at North Park, 0870 600 3970: or writing to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 9AA and at the offices of Allen & Overy, One Bishops Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA.
You may not use any electronic address provided Square, London E1 6AO during normal business hours on any weekday public either in this Notice or any related documents including the Chairmans welcome and holidays excepted from the date of this notice and at the place of the meeting Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those from 9.45am until the close of the meeting.
viii If you return paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
You are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
Electronic communication facilities are available to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged.
Additional information | Notice of meeting
