130 Serco Group plc Shareholder information Shareholder information Group website Global payment services Go to www.
com to catch up on the For overseas shareholders in certain current share price, latest news in the countries, Computershare offers a Global investors section and read the Annual Payment Service.
This service offers Review and Accounts.
shareholders the ability to have their dividend converted into their local currency and sent electronically to their local bank account, for a fixed fee of 5.
Registrars To sign up for this service, you need to Administrative enquiries about the holding register with Computershares Investor of Serco Group plc shares and enquiries Centre service at in relation to the Serco Dividend Rewww.
investment Plan DRIP should be directed to: Computershare Investor Services PLC Electronic communication Po Box 82 Serco is very proud to participate in eTree.
The Pavilions eTree is a service through which you can Bridgwater Road register to receive communications about Bristol BS99 7NH Serco electronically.
By signing up via eTree for electronic communications, you Shareholder helpline: will receive emails alerting you to 44 0 870 873 5839 communications as they become www.
As part of the programme Serco will also donate a native sapling, per participating Shareholder, to the Woodland Trust.
To participate in eTree, Dividend re-investment plan you will need your shareholder reference You can elect to receive future dividends number and register at as shares rather than cash by www.
For further information or to register, please contact Computershare on the number provided above for a copy of the terms and conditions booklet and mandate form.
Dividends paid direct to your bank account Avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post No need to present cheques for payment Dividend credited to your account on payment date.
To set up a dividend mandate or change your existing mandated details, please register with the Investor Centre via the Computershare website or contact Computershare on the number provided above.
Shareholder information Serco Group plc 131 Share dealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Serco shares.
Alternatively, if shareholders hold a share certificate they can also use any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities.
Shareholders in any doubt about buying or selling their shares should seek professional financial advice.
For EU shareholders share account members Telephone Internet: Buy or sell shares over the telephone or internet through Computershare Investor Services.
For telephone purchases or sales call 0870 873 5839 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
For internet purchases or sales log on to: www.
Postal: Cazenove & Co Limited provide a postal dealing service to buy and sell Serco shares.
All transactions are undertaken on an execution only basis.
For further information please contact Cazenove at: Sharedealing Service, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, United Kingdom, Tel: 44 0 20 7155 5155.
For Non EU shareholders Currently non EU shareholders may only buy or sell shares through the Cazenove postal service see above.
Shareholder profile The range and size of ordinary shareholding as at 31 December 2007 is set out below: Range of shareholdings No.
of shares % 1 - 1,000 4,120 44.50 1,890,947 0.39 1,001 5,000 3,553 38.38 8,042,396 1.66 5,001 10,000 591 6.38 4,189,022 0.86 10,001 100,000 641 6.92 20,453,459 4.22 100,001 500,000 205 2.21 49,397,220 10.18 500,001 1,000,000 49 0.53 35,394,769 7.30 1,000,001 10,000,000 89 0.96 208,598,028 43.01 10,000,001 and above 11 0.12 157,083,776 32.38 Total 9,259 100.00 485,049,617 100.00 132 Serco Group plc Financial calendar Financial calendar 2008 27 February Preliminary results announcement 5 March Ex-dividend date 7 March Record date 29 April Last date for receipt revocation of DRIP dividend mandates 13 May Interim Management Statement 13 May Annual General Meeting 21 May Final dividend pay date 27 August Interim results announcement October Interim dividend pay date November Interim Management Statement 31 December Financial year end Contents Financial Statements 1 Introduction 73 Consolidated Income Statement 4 Highlights 73 Consolidated Statement of 6 Our Business Recognised Income and Expense 8 Chairmans Statement 74 Consolidated Balance Sheet Business Review 75 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 10 Chief Executives Statement 76 Notes to the 13 Governing Principles Financial Statements 14 Serco Strategy 122 Serco Group plc 16 Operating Performance Company Financial Statements 28 Market Development 130 Shareholder Information 30 Contractual Relationships Printed on 9lives 80 silk which is certified as an FSC 132 Financial Calendar 31 Resources mixed sources product, 9lives 80 is produced using 32 Finance Review 20% recycled wood and fibre, 60% FSC certified fide-inked fibre recovered from post-consumer 38 Principal Risks and Uncertainties sources, 10% FSC accredited virgin TCF fibre and 43 Directors, Secretary and Advisors 10% virgin fibre from sustainable forests.
44 Corporate Governance Report 52 Directors Report Mixed Sources 54 Directors Profiles Product group from well-managed forests, 56 Directors Responsibilities controlled sources and recycled wood or fibre 57 Remuneration Report Designed by Rare Corporate Design, London.
SGS-COC-003161 71 Independent Auditors Report Artworked and printed by Turners.
co. uk 1996 Forest Stewardship Council Serco Group plc Annual Review and Accounts 2007 Bringing service to life Improving service, increasing value Serco Group plc Registered Office: Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY T: 44 0 1256 745 900 E: generalenquiries@serco.
com Annual Review & Accounts 2007 Bringing service to life Improving service, increasing value Serco Group plc Registered Office: Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY T: 44 0 1256 745 900 E: generalenquiries@serco.
com Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2007 Contents 1 Introduction 4 Highlights 6 Our Business 8 Chairmans Statement 10 Chief Executives Statement 13 Governing Principles 14 Sercos Strategy 16 Operating Performance 28 Market Development 30 Finance Review 36 Summary Financial Statement Printed on 9lives 80 silk which is certified as an FSC 47 Directors Profiles mixed sources product, 9lives 80 is produced using 49 Consolidated Income Statement 20% recycled wood and fibre, 60% FSC certified fide-inked fibre recovered from post-consumer 49 Consolidated Statement of sources, 10% FSC accredited virgin TCF fibre and Recognised Income and Expense 10% virgin fibre from sustainable forests.
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet 51 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Mixed Sources 52 Independent Auditors Statement Product group from well-managed forests, 53 Shareholder Information controlled sources and recycled wood or fibre 55 Financial Calendar Designed by Rare Corporate Design, London.
SGS-COC-003161 Artworked and printed by Turners.
co. uk 1996 Forest Stewardship Council Serco Group plc 1 Our customers primarily national and local governments face profound challenges.
They must improve vital services, despite intense budget pressures.
They must adapt to citizens' rising expectations and make services flexible and responsive.
They must meet sustainability targets and address the imperatives of security and safety.
In order to meet these challenges, governments are turning to private sector partners who can help them transform services and reduce costs.
Major private companies also face issues of cost, efficiency and quality, meaning they too can benefit from our work.
This creates strong and growing demand for Serco's expertise, and we are ideally placed to respond.
For more than 40 years, we have built up unrivalled capabilities and broadened our business and addressable markets into sectors ranging from air traffic control to running scientific establishments.
2 Serco Group plc 2 1 3 What Serco offers Sercos vision and strategy Making strategic acquisitions: While we are primarily focused on organic We can operate in a Our vision is to be the growth, we make acquisitions to acquire broad range of sectors leading service company new skills and to enter new markets where we see strong opportunities.
because our core in our chosen markets.
Developing new models: We respond product is people-led Leading means that we want to be the to emerging opportunities by finding new best partner to work with, the company change management.
This may mean people aspire to work for, and the collaboration between our divisions, We analyse a customers problems and company which delivers superior returns bringing together skills and experience produce a bespoke solution, with the to shareholders.
Our chosen markets are which few other companies can replicate.
improved management of people at its those which promise strong revenue Or it may mean partnering with our heart.
growth, attractive margins and the ability customer or the voluntary sector.
Our to offer good working conditions for our We redesign organisations to remove ability to lead change keeps us at the people.
bureaucracy, improve processes and forefront of our markets.
liberate people to deliver their best.
Our strategy for achieving this vision has We introduce technology and continue four elements: to invest during the life of the contract.
Building a balanced portfolio: We aim And crucially we instil our culture and to reduce risk and increase opportunity by values.
Our governing principles and building a balanced contract portfolio, public-service ethos focus us on delivering spread across markets.
This reduces our the best for our customers, our people exposure to market fluctuations, enables and the wider community.
us to select the best opportunities Building long-term customer relationships whichever market they are in, and allows is fundamental to Serco.
This means us to transfer expertise from one market meeting and often exceeding our to another.
We invest in Maintaining high rebid and new win relationships by providing innovation and rates: Our service excellence results in a continuous improvement.
We devolve rebid win rate above 90%.
We also win responsibility, giving contract directors one in two new contracts, reflecting our the freedom to anticipate and respond ability to select only those opportunities to customers changing requirements.
where we can differentiate ourselves.
The Serco Management System, which controls how we operate, ensures that these actions are also in the best interests of Serco and its shareholders.
Serco Group plc 3 4 5 6 Sercos track record of success The future Our emphasis on bringing We are optimistic about service to life for our future.
Our markets customers leads directly continue to grow strongly to our financial success, and offer substantial and we have grown opportunities, both in the quickly in recent years.
UK and increasingly Since we listed in 1988, we have overseas.
We also have consistently delivered double-digit revenue stronger capabilities growth.
We have been able to leverage this scale and manage our contract across more sectors to portfolio, driving our margins higher.
At the meet our customers same time, we have delivered consistent improvements in our free cash flow.
Our success is also recognised by others.
Sercos substantial order book contributes We are frequently voted the UKs leading to excellent visibility of future revenues support services company in and our pipeline of identified opportunities Management Todays Most Admired reinforces our confidence.
The success we have achieved to date underpins our confidence of delivering double-digit revenue growth for the foreseeable future.
The quality of our opportunities and our ongoing portfolio management and efficiency improvement will also allow us to further increase our margins.
1 Support services at Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital 2 The Ghan transcontinental service in Australia 3 Court escort service in London 4 Multi-activity contract at RNAS Yeovilton 5 Maintenance at the Atomic Weapons Establishment 6 Running education services in Walsall 4 Serco Group plc Highlights Revenue Highlights 2006: 2,548m 2,811m 10.3% Revenue Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted earnings per share Dividend per share m m pence pence 1,556 1,637 2,260 2,548 2,811 63 69 87 105 123 10.86 11.28 13.41 15.92 18.57 2.34 2.63 2.97 3.60 4.25 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 Adjusted profit before tax and Adjusted earnings per share are estimated under IFRS Highlights Serco Group plc 5 Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted earnings per share Dividend per share 2006: 105.0m 2006: 15.92p 2006: 3.60p 123.2m 18.57p 4.25p 17.3% 16.6% 18.1% Profit before tax Earnings per share Group free cash flow 2006: 107.4m 2006: 16.62p 2006: 85.4m 114.6m 16.98p 97.6m 6.7% 2.2% 14.3% International success builds on UK strengths Success across our markets Broad pipeline supports excellent visibility Signed 3.6bn of contracts and appointed preferred bidder for Order book at new record of 14.7bn at 31 December 2007 a further 1.0bn Contracts valued at an additional 1.0bn at preferred bidder Record level of international awards including Dubai Metro stage over 400m, US Postal Service $260m, LOGCAP IV Visibility of 91% of planned revenue for 2008, 76% for 2009 $225m and Borallon Correctional Centre Aus$100m and 63% for 2010 Significant progress in other new markets, including Glasgow 27bn of further opportunities identified City Council strategic partnership 265m in local authority market and e-Borders 200m in homeland security Growing markets and higher margins underpin positive outlook Excellent progress in existing markets, including Marine Services 750m in UK defence, Forth Valley 450m in UK and international markets continue to generate increasing UK integrated facilities management and Yarls Wood 85m in opportunities UK home affairs Confident of double-digit revenue growth for the foreseeable Maintained rebid win rate at more than 90% and continued to future win one in two new bids Guidance for Adjusted PBT margin of 30 basis point increase for both 2008 and 2009 Strong margin and cash performance Adjusted PBT margin up from 4.1% to 4.4% Group free cash flow increased by 14.3% to 97.6m Strong balance sheet with Group recourse net debt reduced to 137.9m Note: Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted PBT and Adjusted earnings per share are before amortisation of acquired intangibles and the 11.4m gain on sale of PFI investments in 2006 as shown on the face of the Groups income statement.
Group free cash flow is from subsidiaries and joint venture dividends and is reconciled in Section 3 of the Finance review.
6 Serco Group plc Our business Our business We organise our business around dedicated market expertise in a variety of sectors: Civil Government, Defence, Transport and Science Civil Government Revenue by market 2007 Sercos work in civil government encompasses home affairs, information Civil Government 34% and communications technology ICT, 2006 business process outsourcing, education Defence 26% and childrens services, health, integrated facilities management and consulting.
25% 34% Our home affairs work includes managing prisons in the UK, Australia and Germany, 2,548m 2,811m electronically monitoring offenders, developing systems for law enforcement 25% agencies, controlling immigration and improving civil resilience.
16% Science 17% We run all education services in two local authority areas and all childrens services Transport 23% in one area, providing services for over 500 schools and around 20,000 children.
Our expanding health business provides Revenue by geography 2007 clinical services to over two million people in a range of primary and community Asia Pacific 6% settings.
2006 North America 11% We use our ICT skills and business 6% process knowledge to deliver better, faster and cheaper ICT solutions to local 12% Europe & government, schools and blue chip Middle East 8% 8% private sector customers.
Our integrated 2,548m facilities management business provides 2,811m environmental, streetscene and other direct services to councils, and also works with hospitals and private customers.
Our consulting capability raises awareness UK 75% 74% of Serco and enhances our reputation with potential and existing customers by providing high-value advisory services.
Revenue 952m 8.8% Our business Serco Group plc 7 Defence Transport Science Serco is a major provider of support Serco is a major provider of transport Serco is a world leader in managing both services to the armed forces of the UK, services.
With our partner, NedRailways, science-based organisations and the US, Germany and Australia.
we run Merseyrail one of the UKs best process of developing, transferring and performing franchises and Northern Rail, applying knowledge.
In the UK, we provide training, engineering which is the UKs largest network.
and operational support to the Royal Air In Australia, Serco owns and operates We manage the National Physical Force and the flight arms of the British Great Southern Rail, including The Ghan Laboratory NPL, which is one of the Army and Royal Navy.
We put the Royal and Indian Pacific trans-continental services.
Navy to sea at its three main UK bases, It is our responsibility to maximise the operate and maintain strategic defence We have substantial experience of positive impact of NPLs mission in assets such as secure satellite operating light rail systems, including the measurement standards and science, communications and the Defence award-winning Docklands Light Railway in for business and government.
Academy of the United Kingdom, and London.
In March 2008, we will be signing provide systems engineering, safety the contract to operate and maintain the We have an integral role in the UK assurance and risk management services.
Dubai metro system which is planned to defence and civil nuclear industries.
be the largest driverless metro system in Since 2000, Serco has been entrusted In North America we are gaining critical the world.
This breakthrough contract with the management of the UK Atomic mass with strength in providing enterprise substantially increases Sercos transport Weapons Establishment which is management, engineering, logistics, sector presence in the Middle East.
responsible for providing the warheads economic cost analysis and human for the UKs nuclear deterrent.
We do this resources services to the military, in Serco is also a UK market leader in traffic as part of AWE Management Limited, a particular the US Army and US Navy.
management systems, including the 25-year joint venture with Lockheed National Traffic Control Centre for Martin UK and British Nuclear Group We provide training, logistics and England, which helps motorists to plan BNG.
In addition we have provided operational support services to the their journeys and make best use of the independent specialist nuclear safety Australian Department of Defence, with road network.
advice to the Royal Navy in support of its a presence on every defence base in nuclear submarine fleet for nearly half a Australia, and to the German Bundeswehr, In air, we are one of the worlds largest century.
including our work at one of Europes private sector providers of air traffic most advanced combat training centres.
control services, with operations in the We also offer specialist technical support UK, Middle East and the US.
to the UKs civil nuclear industry, providing safety, environmental, risk and asset management advice and operational solutions across the UKs civil nuclear sites.
Revenue Revenue Revenue 721m 655m 483m 11.8% 4.7% 19.9% 8 Serco Group plc Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Kevin Beeston, Chairman I am delighted to report on another year of strong growth.
The success we have achieved in 2007 underpins our confidence in delivering double-digit growth for the foreseeable future.
Chairmans statement Serco Group plc 9 Financial results DeAnne Julius retired on 29 October 2007 Growing markets and higher margins I am delighted to report on another year of as a Non-Executive Director and from her underpin positive outlook strong growth.
Revenue grew by 10.3% post as Senior Independent Director.
Our markets continue to generate a broad to 2,811m, Adjusted profit before tax I would like to thank her for her considerable range of high-quality opportunities for Adjusted PBT rose by 17.3% to contribution to our development and wish Serco, both in the UK and internationally.
123.2m and Adjusted earnings per share her well.
Baroness Ford of Cunninghame The success we have achieved in 2007 grew 16.6% to 18.57p.
The Adjusted PBT was appointed the new Senior Independent underpins our confidence in delivering margin increased from 4.1% to 4.4%, Director from the same date.
double-digit growth for the foreseeable benefiting from our management of the future.
At the same time, our focus on contract portfolio and continued efficiency Thomas Corcoran joined Serco as a Nonmanaging our contract portfolio, enhancing improvements.
Profit before tax rose by Executive Director on 3 December 2007. our efficiency and bidding selectively for 6.7% to 114.6m and earnings per share Thomas is a member of the Remuneration, higher-value work will allow us to further were 2.2% higher at 16.98p.
Profit before Audit, Nomination and Training and increase our margins and we expect a 30 tax and earnings per share in 2006 Development committees.
basis point improvement in our Adjusted included the benefit of the one-off gain on PBT margin in each of 2008 and 2009. sale of our PFI investments.
Managing our growth One of Sercos great strengths is its longI look forward to reporting to shareholders Our cash performance continued to be term customer relationships.
We nurture on our progress in 2008. strong, with Group free cash flow these by devolving responsibility to the increasing 14.3% to 97.6m.
This contract level, giving our people the Group free cash flow contributed to a reduction in Group freedom to anticipate and respond to m recourse net debt of more than 34m to customers changing requirements.
The strength of our balance This delivers excellent organic growth but sheet was further enhanced by the it also creates a need to make sure that decline in our net pension liabilities.
these actions are applied consistently and in the best interests of Serco and its Dividend shareholders.
Sercos policy is to increase the total dividend each year broadly in line with the Over many years, we have developed a increase in underlying earnings.
The robust system of governance and internal Board has proposed a final dividend of controls, which we call the Serco 3.02p per share, representing an increase Management System.
It covers all areas on the 2006 final dividend of 18.4% and of our operations, from finance through to bringing the total dividend for the year to bidding for new contracts, and we 4.25p, growth of 18.1%.
The final continue to evolve it to ensure it keeps dividend will be paid on 21 May 2008 to pace with Sercos rapid development.
shareholders on the register on This allows us to operate in a devolved 47 56 74 85 98 7 March 2008. manner while ensuring consistency and an upward line of accountability and Board control to the Board.
The quality of these There were a number of changes to the processes is evident in our operational composition of the Board during the year.
The right As announced on 31 August 2006, balance between flexibility and control is I moved from Executive Chairman to essential and maintaining this balance will Non-Executive Chairman on 1 September ensure a successful future for Serco.
Grant Rumbles, our Chief Operating 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Officer, was appointed an Executive Director on 3 July 2007.
10 Serco Group plc Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement Christopher Hyman, Chief Executive In 2007 we reaped the benefits of our strategy of increasing value: we won important contracts in existing markets, continued to build our position in new markets and were awarded record levels of international business.
Chief Executives statement Serco Group plc 11 In 2007 we reaped the benefits of our logistics planning and supply chain strategy of increasing value: we won consulting contract for the US Army worth important contracts in existing markets, $225m, and two contracts for the Space continued to build our position in new and Naval Warfare Systems Center to markets and were awarded record levels assist with anti-terrorism systems, with a of international business.
total potential value of around $180m.
We delivered another year of double-digit Elsewhere, we also made significant revenue growth, enhanced our margins, progress.
We were appointed preferred further increased our free cash flow and bidder for a 400m contract to operate strengthened our balance sheet.
and maintain the Dubai Metro, a contract we will be signing in March 2008, and in I am pleased to say that we maintained Australia, we won the contract to run our win rates at more than 90% for rebids Borallon Correctional Centre, worth and one in two for new bids.
We signed around Aus$100m over five years, as well 3.6bn of contracts and were appointed as a four-year safety camera contract in preferred bidder for further contracts Victoria valued at Aus$90m.
Such successes demonstrate the growing Highlights of our success in existing international demand for the services we markets included the substantial increase have developed within the UK market.
in value of our Royal Navy marine services contract to around 750m over 15 years, Appropriately, the theme for this report is and the signing of the 450m, 30-year increasing value.
In delivering essential contract to provide services to the new services we touch many people and our NHS Forth Valley Acute Hospital.
challenge is to deliver increasing value to them all customers, employees, The capabilities we acquired in 2005 with investors and the communities in which ITNET and RCI enabled us to enter we operate.
This focus has been exciting new markets.
Two good consistent throughout our history and as examples were homeland security, where with so much in Serco, the starting point as a key member of the Trusted Borders is our customers and by extension the consortium we were awarded a ten-year citizens they serve.
Given that the Home Office contract to develop and expectations of citizens rise every day, implement the e-Borders project, and increasing value means a continuous the local government strategic partnership improvement in quality.
market, where we won a contract with Glasgow City Council worth 265m to At the same time, our customers expect provide property, information and significant savings.
As noted elsewhere in communication technology services.
this report, a study by the Serco Institute shows that introducing competition into A record level of international awards was public services delivers average cost also a key feature.
Our performance in the reductions of 20% and sometimes much US was particularly strong, with wins more.
including a renewed and significantly increased contract with the US Postal Service worth $260m, a cost analysis, 12 Serco Group plc Chief Executives statement But there is more to increasing value than Our success in 2007 keeps us optimistic just improving quality and cost.
At the end of the year, customers are also asking us to manage our order book stood at a record 14.7bn more and more complexity for them as and we were preferred bidder on well as to support them with their broader contracts valued at 1bn, giving us social objectives.
excellent visibility of our revenue for the next few years.
Being a thriving, values-led company creates value for employees.
Our public Opening new markets in the UK and service ethos makes Serco a rewarding overseas has also significantly increased place to work, helping us to attract and the breadth and depth of our pipeline of retain the best people.
Our growth opportunities, which now stands at enables our people to take their careers 27bn.
The breadth gives us confidence in new directions.
of achieving double-digit growth for the foreseeable future, while the depth allows The quality of our people is reflected in us to select higher margin work, enabling the awards we receive.
Amongst these, us to deliver further margin improvement.
for the fourth year in a row, Serco was voted the UKs most admired support This optimism is not limited to our services company and this year was financial performance.
The strength of our ranked as the countrys fourth most business, our commercial know-how and admired company overall.
These awards, the deep public services ethos which our conducted by Management Today, have people bring to life every day mean that become a benchmark for excellence.
we will continue to increase value for all of our stakeholders.
Increasing value for our customers and other stakeholders also increases value for investors.
Delivering high-quality services helps us to renew and expand existing contracts and win work with new customers.
Our ability to address the broader needs of our customers helps us to establish a leadership position that also drives our growth.
Visibility of planned revenue at 31 December 2007 Order book 2008 76% 13% 2% 91% Extensions and rebids Preferred bidder 2009 61% 13% 2% 76% 48% 13% 2% 63% 2010 Governing principles Serco Group plc 13 Sercos Governing Principles All Serco employees are expected to adhere to the highest standards in dealing with colleagues, customers, suppliers or shareholders.
By setting these standards and by supporting each other, we aim to get the best out of our people and subsequently the best service for our customers.
This is vital to our ongoing business.
We foster an entrepreneurial culture We are passionate about building innovative and successful businesses.
This means we succeed by encouraging and generating new ideas.
We trust our people to deliver.
We embrace change and by taking measured risks encourage creative thinking.
We enable our people to excel Our success comes from our commitment and energy to go the extra mile.
This means we are responsible to each other and can expect support when we need it most.
We expect our people to achieve more by recognising and harnessing the power of individuals.
We value people for their knowledge, ideas and potential to contribute.
We deliver our promises We do what we say we will do to meet expectations.
This means we only promise what we can deliver.
If we make mistakes we put them right.
We are clear about what we need to achieve and we expect to make a fair profit.
We build trust and respect We build trust and respect by operating in a safe, socially responsible, consistent and honest manner.
This means we never compromise on safety.
We treat others as we would wish to be treated and challenge when we see something is wrong.
14 Serco Group plc Sercos strategy Sercos strategy has four key elements, which bring benefits to our customers and hence to our shareholders.
The four elements are to: 1 Build a balanced portfolio of market facing businesses This allows us to select the best opportunities for growth, to reduce our risk by avoiding concentration of revenue in a small number of contracts, and to share good practice and experience across the Group.
2 Maintain high rebid and new win rates We maintain high win rates through building long-term customer relationships and by meeting and often exceeding customer expectations.
This, along with our reputation with existing customers, helps us to expand the scope and scale of contracts during their life, retain contracts at rebid, and win new contracts.
3 Make strategic acquisitions to obtain new skills or enter markets Organic growth has been the principal driver of Sercos success.
However, we also make acquisitions to bring in new skills which will be important for future growth or to enter new markets where we see strong prospects.
4 Develop new models in existing and emerging markets We are constantly looking at new ways to deliver services in response to our customers changing needs.
Examples of how we do this include: thorough collaboration between our divisions: partnering with third parties including the public, private and voluntary sectors: and the development of new frameworks such as payment on outcomes.
Sercos strategy Serco Group plc 15 We have grown strongly and consistently in the 20 years since we listed.
By following our strategy we believe we will continue to grow strongly, since each of the four elements of our strategy contributes to one or more of the following outcomes: Reducing our exposure to market fluctuations Our balanced portfolio and our high rebid and new contract win rates give high visibility of future revenue and protect against fluctuations in any one of our markets.
Innovation allows us to enter new markets and find new ways of delivering services to customers.
Strengthening our position in our chosen markets We focus our resources on those markets where we see the best prospects, and innovate to satisfy our customers needs.
We supplement our organic growth with carefully selected acquisitions to expand our footprint.
Developing new skills and capabilities for the future We constantly invest in our skills and capabilities to strengthen our market position.
We acquire to enhance our capabilities and to allow us to enter new markets which helps us secure opportunities for growth in the future.
Strategic New Balanced High models portfolio win rates acquisitions 16 Serco Group plc Operating performance Civil Government Civil Government Civil Government is our largest segment and includes home affairs, information technology and business process outsourcing, integrated facilities management, health, education and childrens services, consulting and much of our work in the private sector.
2007 saw an increasing requirement for Revenue IT and BPO Services technological content in these markets, In UK local government, Glasgow City as customers looked to procure more Council approved the creation of a sophisticated services.
Segmental partnership with Serco, to transform the 952m revenue increased by 8.8% to 952m, councils land, property and information representing 34% of Group revenue and communications technology ICT 8.8% 2006: 34%.
The partnership will be worth 265m to Serco over ten years and will Home Affairs also position us to support the Council on Some of the things we do We had two notable successes with the transformational projects, to improve the UK Home Office.
Trusted Borders, a Border protection Councils efficiency and service delivery.
consortium of which Serco is a key The partnership is the first of its kind in Prisons management member, signed a contract to develop Scotland and is expected to save the Education and childrens services and implement the nations e-Borders Council more than 70m.
Environmental services project, an advanced border control and Government portal management management programme.
Serco is We also secured a 30m, ten-year Health management and hospital responsible for infrastructure and service partnership with Ealing Council, to provide support management.
The contract is valued at ICT support, and Southwark Council IT and IT-enabled services around 200m to Serco over ten years.
selected Serco to provide and support its We also won a contract to manage and Management consultancy ICT infrastructure, in a five-year deal operate Yarls Wood Immigration Removal valued at 26m.
The contract began in April 2007 Council appointed us for an IT partnership for an initial three years, with optional to manage desktop services more extensions for up to eight years.
Over the effectively and offer access to our wider IT full eight years, the contract is valued at and business process capabilities.
contract is valued at around 14m over seven years.
West Sussex is a new We continued to build our presence in the customer for Serco.
Australian home affairs market, winning contracts to manage and operate We successfully rebid our contract with Borallon Correctional Centre and to Regione Lombardia, one of the largest provide safety camera services.
Borallon, local authorities in Europe, to provide near Brisbane, accommodates 500 male outsourced services for its IT infrastructure.
This contract with the The initial contract is valued at around Queensland Department of Corrective 14m over six years, with additional Services is valued at around Aus$100m services identified expected to expand this.
over five years, with the potential for a further five-year extension.
The safety camera contract is with the Victoria Department of Justice.
The four-year contract is valued at Aus$90m, with the potential for a three-year extension.
Operating performance Civil Government Serco Group plc 17 Providing resources to help businesses bloom BusinessLink.
gov brings together business information from more than 600 governmental and agency experts in one easy-to-access website.
By providing the tools and resources which businesses really need, such as grant forms and annual leave calculators, BusinessLink has become one of the key gateways between Government and the business community.
Serco won the contract to deliver the already successful Business.
We have worked to increase awareness of the programme, improving communication, aligning with other major business initiatives across Government and co-ordinating channels to promote continuity of information to businesses.
We are personalising services to the needs of individual businesses, eliminating duplication of information and promoting efficiency.
At the same time we are making it easier for businesses to transact with Government.
Our enhancements to delivery will reduce costs by more than 25m over the life of the contract.
A key development has been to put in place systems to ensure that the BusinessLink website is delivering tangible value to business.
A survey in 2007 showed a marked increase in the value delivered from c2bn to 4bn.
This translates into a saving of 100 for UK businesses for every 1 invested by the programme.
The National Audit Office recognises the programme as an example of best practice.
18 Serco Group plc Operating performance Civil Government Severn Trent one of the worlds largest Integrated Facilities Management private water companies awarded Serco Our integrated facilities management a five-year IT infrastructure framework business had several notable successes.
We signed a 450m, 30-year contract to We will provide programme and project provide support to the new NHS Forth management, consulting, technical Valley Acute Hospital, drawing on our delivery, IT engineering and technology healthcare experience to influence the refresh services.
hospitals design and thereby enhance infection control.
Innovations include We continued to enhance our position as segregation of patient, visitor and goods the leader in the UK business support traffic as well as the introduction of proven market, winning a contract with the South robotic technology to support the West Regional Development Agency to movement of goods around the hospital provide the BusinessLink service for site.
The contract will begin in 2010.
The contract is for 28 months and is We signed contracts to provide valued at around 15m.
operational management to the United Arab Emirates University in Al Ain 70m The US Postal Service Engineering over ten years, and to deliver property Organization appointed Serco to provide management and support services to engineering, technical, project State Street Bank 50m over five years.
The twoWe were also awarded contracts to year contract has four two-year options provide support services to Coca Cola at and over the full ten years has a potential its London headquarters 10m over five value of $260m, a sizeable increase over years and to Volkswagens UK our previous contract.
The latest contract headquarters, under a two-year rolling broadens our role to include management contract valued at 3.5m per annum.
services focused on enhancing efficiencies, quality assurance services Mid Suffolk and Babergh District Councils and testing of mail processing equipment.
awarded us a contract in a groundbreaking shared services The US Office of Personnel Management partnership for waste and recycling awarded Serco two indefinite-delivery services.
The contract is for up to 21 indefinite-quantity IDIQ contracts under years and is valued at around 80m.
the Training Management Assistance Mid Sussex District Council also program.
These programs assist appointed us to provide refuse, recycling government agencies in developing and street cleaning services.
The contract workforce planning and management is for up to 21 years and is valued at strategies, e-learning and other training around 74m.
The contracts give Serco the opportunity to compete for a share of $500m of work over the next five years.
Operating performance Civil Government Serco Group plc 19 Education and Childrens Services Our consulting expertise resulted in our Stoke-on-Trent City Council awarded us a selection for a number of important contract to transform their children's frameworks in 2007.
We were one of ten services.
The contract is valued at 5m firms chosen to provide consultancy to over three years, with the potential for UK government departments looking to substantial growth.
The contract is to lead undertake transformational projects as and manage all the councils services for part of the four-year, 1.5bn Catalist education and childrens social care.
Serco was one of only two suppliers included in all five categories of Consulting the Metropolitan Polices four-year, 200m Over the past year we have been building Development Services framework.
our consulting business with a focus on We were one of ten suppliers selected for supporting our clients in the transformation the Ministry of Defences MoD four-year, of their businesses.
Serco has many years 100m Catalogue framework, the main of experience in the delivery of public route for the MoD to acquire consultancy services across a broad range of sectors services.
We also qualified as one of only and we are now applying this experience four providers of project and programme through three key parts of our management resources to the transformation proposition policy and Department for Environment, Food and strategy advice on transformation, the Rural Affairs.
The potential value of the design and implementation of solutions, framework to the qualified suppliers is and ensuring that change is sustainable 80m over four years.
and realises benefits through the effective management of human capital.
Against this backdrop we developed the business with the acquisition of Cornwell Management Consultants plc, adding new capabilities in information and knowledge management, while increasing our capacity in project and programme management and enterprise architecture.
We also acquired ER Consultants Limited ER as part of our building of capability in the area of sustainable change.
ER brings experience and skills in leadership development and organisation design and development.
These are key issues for many organisations and the acquisition enhances our ability to help our current customers and also to target new blue chip customers in the commercial sector.
20 Serco Group plc Operating performance Defence Defence Revenue in Defence increased by 11.8% to 721m, representing 26% of Group revenue 2006: 25%.
2007 was a year of strong organic growth in defence, supplemented by demand for our value-added services.
United Kingdom The MoD awarded us a contract to Revenue We had a highly successful year in manage the maintenance, repair and winning new business in the UK defence operation of the UK Armed Forces estate market, primarily in support of the Royal facilities in Gibraltar.
The contract is valued 721m Navy and Royal Air Force.
at around 50m over five years, with a further two option years and the potential 11.8% The key win in the UK was a contract for additional work.
We will also provide with the MoD to deliver marine services to military logistics, workshops and marine the Royal Navy.
The MoD selected our services support to the naval base and Some of the things we do joint venture with Denholm Shipping and other MoD operations.
2 Command control systems Infrastructure Investors I for a 15-year private finance initiative PFI contract The Naval Air Command appointed Serco Defence establishments valued at around 1bn, of which Sercos preferred bidder for a partnering contract management operating contract represents 750m.
valued at around 7m per annum.
We will Economic cost analysis This is a sizeable increase on our provide aviation, engineering and aircraft Logistics consulting previous operating contract, under which support at two Royal Naval Air Stations, Marine services we have provided marine services to the Yeovilton and Culdrose, improving the Port security Royal Navy since 1996. availability of aircraft and trained aircrew to Risk and safety management the Fleet Air Arm at a time of considerable Serco will manage, operate and maintain operational pressure.
The work will build Secure IT support a fleet of around 110 vessels, providing on the operational support we already Through-life capability management services that enable the Royal Navy to provide to the Royal Navys aircraft.
Training and personnel services put to sea.
The joint venture will also bring over 30 new vessels into service We were also awarded a contract to during the early years of the contract, provide a range of services at RAF enhancing service flexibility and Lyneham, home to the UKs tactical Air responsiveness and helping to meet the Transport force of Hercules aircraft and Royal Navys demanding operational one of the largest and busiest operational 2 requirements.
Serco chose I in 2006 to stations in the RAF.
In addition to become its strategic partner for financing providing base support, facilities 2 and investment in PFIs.
In this project, I management and logistics services, Serco will provide all the subordinated debt and will support the No 1 Air Mobility Wing, the largest proportion of the equity 49%.
Tactical Medical Wing and No 4 Force Serco retains 41% of the equity as well as Protection Wing.
This win will further day-to-day management of the joint strengthen Sercos relationships with Air venture, so as to implement the Command and key equipment successful transition of the project over manufacturers such as Rolls Royce.
The contract is for four years with three option years and is valued at around 34m over the full seven years.
Operating performance Defence Serco Group plc 21 Enhancing the Royal Navys operational capacity The UK armed forces are faced with unprecedented challenges, playing their part in protecting national and international security against a background of budgetary restraint.
Increasing the effectiveness of assets and equipment makes an important contribution to their operational capacity.
Serco Denholm, a joint venture led by Serco, has been providing essential operational support to the Royal Navy for more than a decade.
Over that period, we have built a highly effective working relationship.
In December 2007, Serco Denholm Marine Services signed a new 15-year contract with the Ministry of Defence to deliver a wide range of marine services to the Royal Navy.
The contract is worth 750m to Serco, a significant increase on the previous contract, reflecting the strength of our relationship with the Royal Navy.
We are also managing more complexity for the customer.
Around 240 staff and the services of the Royal Maritime Auxiliary Service transfer to Serco from April 2008 and Serco Denholm will also bring an additional 30 vessels into service under a PFI arrangement, to add to the 110 existing vessels.
These new vessels are being procured by Serco Denholm to meet the Navy's future fleet requirements and to enhance support to trials and worldwide training.
22 Serco Group plc Operating performance Defence We were awarded the Apache helicopter The US Navy selected us for the major Interim Support Arrangement contract by portion of the Sea Enterprise contract.
AgustaWestland, the prime contractor for This IDIQ contract is to provide Apache depth maintenance at engineering and installation services for Wattisham in the UK.
Depth maintenance command, control, communication, involves stripping the aircraft down and computers, intelligence and reassembling with repaired or new parts reconnaissance systems at ship, shore as necessary.
The contract is valued at and submarine locations on the West around 15m to Serco over three years.
Coast of the United States.
It has a one-year base period with four annual Serco was also awarded a multi-activity options, for a maximum term of five years support services contract for British and a potential value of around $156m.
Forces on the South Atlantic bases of A key objective is to reduce the costs of Ascension Island and the Falkland Islands.
installations by improving productivity and The contract is valued at around 20m achieving long-term efficiencies.
United States Our North American defence business won a record level of new contracts against a continued backdrop of pressure on non-combat operations.
The US Army awarded us a contract to provide cost analysis, logistics planning and supply chain consulting services, under the Logistics Civil Augmentation Program IV LOGCAP IV.
This IDIQ contract has a one-year base period with four annual options, for a five-year total period and a potential value of $225m.
The Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center SPAWAR awarded us two contracts to assist the Navy and other government agencies with anti-terrorism systems.
Under the first contract we will evaluate, integrate and install advanced anti-terrorism systems at Navy ports around the world.
This IDIQ contract has a total potential value of $64m over five years.
The second contract extends that relationship with SPAWAR to other government agencies.
The contract is valued at around $62m over three years, and could reach $115m if all five of the six-month award options are exercised.
Operating performance Transport Serco Group plc 23 Transport Transport revenues grew by 4.7% to 655m, representing 23% of Group revenue 2006: 25%.
A key feature of the year was the use of our UK skills to secure international opportunities.
Light Rail Revenue Traffic Management The Dubai Government Roads and In the UK, we successfully rebid our Transport Authority RTA selected Serco contract with Transport for London to as preferred bidder to operate and maintain traffic signal control equipment 655m maintain the initial two lines of the new and provide related services.
The contract Dubai Metro, the first such system in the is for five years with the potential for a 4.7% region and an important development for further two-year extension, and is valued the city.
We will be signing the contract in at around 60m over seven years.
The contract includes will provide cover for all traffic control Some of the things we do pre-launch consultancy and planning, equipment including traffic signals, with operations and maintenance running crossings, automatic number plate Air traffic services for five years from autumn 2009 and the recognition cameras and traffic Heavy rail operations and maintenance potential for a further five-year extension.
The services cover Light rail operations and maintenance The contract is valued at more than central London and the City, including 400m over this 12.5 year period.
important transport link points for the Traffic control and transport systems 2012 Olympics.
Transport consultancy Serco will run the operations control centre, maintain rolling stock, track and Serco operates the National Traffic Control station facilities and provide train Centre NTCC on behalf of the Highways attendants and all station staff.
We were pleased that the NTCC will cover 76 kilometres of track and are achieved final completion in May 2007, predicted to carry 200m passengers per recognising the delivery of quality services year.
Ultimately, the RTA intends to and continuing innovation at this worldextend the Dubai Metro to more than 300 first facility.
We have successfully rolled kilometres, making it the worlds largest out the travel time variable messaging driverless metro system.
system, providing valuable real-time information for drivers.
During the year, we finished our contracts to operate the Manchester Metrolink and In the US, the Georgia Department of the Copenhagen Metro.
We did not renew Transportation appointed us to run the the contracts at rebid, as we continue to states Traffic Management Center.
This is actively manage our contract portfolio.
Sercos first traffic management contract in North America.
The contract is for up to four years and is valued at $12m.
Serco also won two parking-related contracts with the City of Chicago, valued at more than $10m over the next five years.
We will provide managed operations, mechanical maintenance identification, parking enforcement and revenue reporting.
24 Serco Group plc Operating performance Transport Heavy Rail Air Traffic Control Northern Rail, which we operate in a joint We successfully rebid our contract to venture with NedRailways, carried nearly provide air traffic control, airside 79m passengers in 2007 and achieved a operations, engineering and strong operational performance despite meteorological services in support of the the severe floods in the summer.
Northern Department of Civil Aviation at Dubai Rail's success has led to it winning two International Airport.
The contract has a prestigious national awards: Public value of 17.5m over two years.
Transport Operator of the Year at the National Transport Awards 2007 and the We also renewed our contract at Bahrain Example of Excellence in the Rural Action International Airport, to provide air traffic category at the 2007 Business in the control, electronic engineering and Community awards.
Our other joint maintenance, project planning and venture with NedRailways Merseyrail consultancy and administrative support.
was the best performing railway in the The contract is valued at around 13m country in terms of reliability and over three years.
punctuality, surpassing its previous best performance in 2005.
Great Southern Rail, our Australian rail operation, performed well in 2007, with good growth on both The Ghan and Indian Pacific services.
The Overland service between Melbourne and Adelaide was re-launched in May 2007, since when its patronage has increased by more than 50%.
Network Rail awarded Serco two contracts during the year.
We extended our contract for infrastructure monitoring and rail grinding services.
The extension is valued at approximately 45m over two years.
Network Rail also appointed us to operate locomotives on the test routes of the European Rail Traffic Management System ERTMS piloting scheme.
ERTMS is a new signalling methodology that will ultimately be rolled out across Europe.
The contract is valued at around 5m over three years.
Operating performance Transport Serco Group plc 25 Reducing congestion through enhancing driver information The growing number of road journeys puts enormous pressure upon infrastructure and capacity, resulting in frustration, lost time and consequent cost to the economy.
Road building is not a sustainable option: one solution is to allow drivers to make better use of the existing network.
Serco was selected by the Highways Agency in March 2001 to deliver and operate its National Traffic Control Centre NTCC.
The NTCC collects traffic data from thousands of roadside sensors, combined with information from hundreds of operational partners including the police, Highways Agency traffic officers, ports and airports and local highway authorities.
NTCC analyses this data and delivers real time traffic information via the Traffic England website www.
com and phone service 08700 660115 and through broadcast partners, giving motorists the information they need to plan their journeys and avoid delays, making the best use of road capacity, reducing driver stress and improving road safety.
Serco continues to increase the value of the service by exploring new ways of reaching drivers and giving them the information they need, when and where they need it most.
In 2007 we introduced new road-side signs on motorways to give drivers predicted travel times between junctions based upon real-time information.
Following a successful pilot this service has been rolled out across the network, publishing over a million messages every month.
26 26 Ser Serco Gr co Group plc oup plc Operating performance Science Science Science revenues grew by 19.9% to 483m, representing 17% of Group revenue 2006: 16%.
Technology and innovation are at the heart of our offering in this market.
Our joint venture with British Nuclear Serco TAS, in partnership with Golder Revenue Group BNG and Lockheed Martin to Associates, was also awarded a 10m operate the UKs Atomic Weapons two-year contract to examine and develop Establishment AWE continued to plans to clean up contaminated land at 483m perform strongly.
The work will include upgrade programme is progressing well, assessment of the condition of the land 19.9% with the facility to house the Orion and groundwater, mathematical modelling, research project due to open on schedule development of a strategy for dealing with in March 2008.
This facility will cover both the contamination and identifying the Some of the things we do weapons research and civil science technologies and actions needed for studies such as evolving stars and superclean up.
The construction of energyMeasurement science efficient offices for up to 1,400 staff is The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority Nuclear assurance also on time and on budget.
As previously NDA appointed a consortium led by the reported, BNG is in the process of the Washington Division of the US Research establishments disposing of its shareholding in AWE and company, URS, as preferred bidder to management we hope this will be completed later this manage the UKs low-level radioactive Technical training year.
waste repository at Drigg in West Cumbria.
Serco TAS is an integrated subSerco Technical and Assurance Services contractor and will provide regulatory, Serco TAS won several contracts in the safety and environmental technical nuclear market during the year.
The ten-year A consortium led by Serco TAS was contract can be extended to up to awarded a 15m contract to provide 17 years.
specialist technical and engineering support to Magnox reactor sites over the next five years.
A range of specialist nuclear technical services will be provided, including safety case management, systems engineering, analysis of safetycritical structures and systems and technical advice on waste management.
Operating performance Science Ser Serco Gr co Group plc oup plc 27 27 Ensuring the highest safety and training standards The Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE, which is responsible for the design, build, maintenance and decommissioning of the warheads for the United Kingdom's nuclear deterrent, has been central to the countrys defence for more than 50 years.
AWE is managed and operated for the Ministry of Defence by AWE Management Limited, a joint venture between Serco Group plc, Lockheed Martin Corporation and British Nuclear Group, under a contract that runs until 2025.
AWE is a complex environment where safety is the number one priority.
The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents recognises AWEs commitment to ensuring the highest standards of safety throughout its operations and has awarded it their prestigious Gold Medal, for achieving five consecutive Gold Awards for occupational health and safety.
In addition, AWE has been awarded the Sir George Earle trophy for the most outstanding performance in health and safety by a company or organisation, as well as the Astor Trophy for the best managed occupational health programme.
Essential to its continued success is the development and retention of skills across a broad spectrum.
A notable achievement in 2007 was the successful establishment of the AWE Programme Management Academy.
Along with representatives from our AWE Management Limited partners, a team of Serco consultants undertook the planning and implementation of a comprehensive suite of training programmes.
These have the goal of ensuring that there are sufficient people in the future who are qualified to successfully lead the multiple and highlycomplex AWE programmes and projects.
The Programme Management Academy will train around 1,000 staff in its first year of operation.
28 Serco Group plc Market development Market development Sercos markets continue to expand rapidly, as local and national governments face budget deficits and ever-increasing pressure from citizens to improve public services.
Governments increasingly recognise the UK local authorities face major challenges, benefits of opening up public service creating opportunities for Serco.
The monopolies to competition and innovation.
Governments 2007 Comprehensive A review by the Serco Institute of 200 Spending Review requires councils to government and academic studies deliver 3% annual efficiency savings, a spanning 30 years, 12 countries and five degree of financial pressure new to many sectors found that competition resulted in council leaders and chief executives.
typical cost savings of 20%, with savings They will look to service providers for as high as 30-40% in some cases.
Value for money in public services is driven In addition, local government by innovation and smarter ways of reorganisation is creating a number of working.
In the UK, the Government has unitary authorities with greater launched a major study to help it responsibilities.
This inevitably involves understand the contribution of the public back-office consolidation, in particular in service industry and how the Government IT-based services.
Serco is well placed to can support it, including the potential to help.
Finally, local authorities are being export the UKs expertise in this area.
given a greater remit to shape their area and deliver local priorities, notably through Turning to individual markets, we expect agencies such as the police, health and to see continued strong growth in home highways.
Sercos track record in reducing affairs.
In the UK we are well established crime and in improving the environment, across all areas and we are expanding our school performance and transport gives footprint in Australia.
Key drivers include us a pivotal role, with our broad the threat of global terrorism, concern understanding of the local agenda placing about immigration, perceptions of rising us in a unique position in the market.
crime and the continued rise in prisoner numbers.
These will increase In defence, the public debate in the UK governments use of the private sector to about the level of funding to equip and provide capacity and to develop new support the armed forces has intensified capabilities to meet new threats.
Our core business lies in helping government achieve greater Health and welfare to work offer major value for money, and it is on that basis future growth areas for Serco.
The UKs that we have continued to work with the National Health Service needs to deliver MoD as it refreshes its Defence Industrial efficiency savings and meet stretching Strategy.
targets and Serco can play a critical supporting role.
We plan to offer better value for money clinical services to the primary sector and to provide fullymanaged healthcare solutions that deliver the information and support needed by clinicians and patients.
The UK Government is also increasingly looking to the private sector to help the jobless move back into employment.
We are well positioned to play a role in this important new market.
Market development Serco Group plc 29 Our track record in the provision of We have engaged with the UK We continue to study the potential for our operational support services to the front Government on future options for its service-led model to be introduced into a line commands and our independence trading funds and agencies.
These number of new markets.
While many of from equipment manufacturers, position options include the Government-Owned, these markets are at an early stage, us well to deliver significant growth.
Contractor-Operated GOCO model, of China, India and South Africa look likely to This will be achieved by using our role as which our successful operations at AWE present opportunities in the medium term.
an integrator of people, infrastructure, and the National Physical Laboratory are training and technology to help the MoD examples.
GOCO is an attractive deliver through-life capability management, operating model where it is strategically and by leveraging our extensive important to retain a public stake in an capabilities in operational support and organisation, and we will continue to work training into new overseas markets.
with Government to examine its full potential while exploring other contractual We have a significant position in the US mechanisms.
defence market, and have broadened our offerings, which should serve us well as In the UK NDA market, our primary focus that sector continues to evolve to an is on producing a competitive bid for imminent post-Iraq era.
SBB Nuclear, the consortium of is a continuing demand for our services to Serco, Bechtel and The Babcock & military personnel and their families, where Wilcox Company, is one of four invited by we have a solid track record.
We are wellthe NDA to submit final tenders.
Tender positioned to provide logistics services as responses are scheduled to be returned the military and other government to the NDA in the spring of 2008, with the agencies face greater pressures to reduce announcement of the winning bidder costs, and for advanced port security and planned for the summer of 2008. other anti-terrorism force protection SBB Nuclear is a unique and highly applications, an area where we see effective team, with a proven track record continued emphasis in the near future.
of safely and securely delivering high performance at AWE and at nuclear sites In transport, we continue to monitor in the US, through partnership with opportunities to address congestion and employees and local communities.
We have built Together our consortium has experience strong links with customers in the UK and of successful transition at 26 major sites around the world to further this.
We look forward to United Arab Emirates there are substantial continuing to work with the NDA and the opportunities to grow our presence in the stakeholders at Sellafield through the transport market with the development of concluding stages of the competition the Dubai Metro.
This system will be process.
There are also a number of other expanded over time and we anticipate a opportunities, including the decommissioning growing pipeline of opportunities with the of the Magnox reactors, Dounreay and rapid expansion of Dubai and further other smaller sites.
We will continue to transport innovation across the Emirates, review the attractiveness of these in particular Abu Dhabi.
Our reputation for opportunities as the market develops.
service delivery and working closely with clients is bringing a substantial range of opportunities across both light rail and traffic control systems that fit within our strategy.
30 Serco Group plc Finance review Finance review Andrew Jenner, Finance Director Serco continued to grow strongly in 2007 with another double-digit increase in revenue.
At the same time, we successfully increased our margins and free cash flow and further strengthened our balance sheet.
Finance review Serco Group plc 31 1.
Financial performance Sercos income statement for the year is summarised in Figure 1 below.
This includes the results of joint ventures which are proportionately consolidated.
As announced in our 2007 interim results, we have adopted a new pro forma profit measure, profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles Adjusted profit before tax.
Figure 1 also shows Adjusted earnings per share, which is calculated before the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
For 2006, the adjusted measures also exclude the gain on sale of our PFI investments of 11.4m.
Figure 1: Income statement Year ended 31 December 2007 2006 Increase m m Revenue 2,810.7 2,548.2 10.3% Gross profit 406.2 365.7 11.1% Administrative expenses 264.2 242.9 Adjusted operating profit 142.0 122.8 15.6% Investment revenue and finance costs 18.8 17.8 Adjusted profit before tax 123.2 105.0 17.3% Amortisation of acquired intangibles 8.6 9.0 Gain on sale of PFI investments 11.4 Profit before tax 114.6 107.4 6.7% Tax 32.2 27.9 Profit for the year 82.4 79.5 3.6% Effective tax rate 28.1% 26.0% Adjusted earnings per share 18.57p 15.92p 16.6% Earnings per share 16.98p 16.62p 2.2% Dividend per share 4.25p 3.60p 18.1% 1.1 Revenue Revenue grew by 10.3% to 2,810.7m, benefiting from the growth of existing contracts and the contribution of new wins.
1.2 Gross margin Gross margin the average contract margin across our portfolio was 14.5%, a small increase on 2006.
1.3 Investment revenue and finance costs Investment revenue and finance costs totalled a net cost of 18.8m 2006: 17.8m.
In December 2006, we sold a number of our PFI investments to Infrastructure Investors Limited.
The loss of net interest income from these investments was largely offset by the increase in net interest income from our retirement benefit obligations.
1.4 Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax was 123.2m, an increase of 17.3%.
This represented a margin of 4.4%, up from 4.1% last year.
32 Serco Group plc Finance review 1.5 Gain on sale of PFI investments 2006 included an 11.4m one-off gain on the sale of PFI investments.
The sale was 2 part of our creation of a strategic PFI investment partnership with I.
There was no corresponding gain in 2007.
1.6 Profit before tax Profit before tax increased by 6.7% to 114.6m.
Profit before tax excluding the gain on sale in 2006 was up by 19.4%.
1.7 Tax The tax charge of 32.2m 2006: 27.9m represents an effective rate of 28.1%, compared with 26.0% in 2006.
The underlying rate in 2006 was 29.1% before the gain on sale of the PFI investments.
The decrease in the underlying rate is primarily due to the mix of taxable profits.
1.8 Earnings per share EPS Adjusted EPS rose by 16.6% to 18.57p.
EPS and Adjusted EPS are calculated on an average share base of 482.4m during the period 2006: 471.2m.
The increase in the average share base resulted from the exercise of employees share options.
2. Dividend Sercos policy is to increase the total dividend each year broadly in line with the increase in underlying earnings.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 3.02p per share, representing an increase on the 2006 final dividend of 18.4% and bringing the total dividend for the year to 4.25p, growth of 18.1%.
The final dividend will be paid on 21 May to shareholders on the register on 7 March.
Cash flow The Group generated a free cash inflow of 97.6m 2006: 85.4m, an increase of 14.3%.
Figure 2 analyses the cash flow.
As in previous years, we have designed the analysis to show the true cash performance of the Group the cash flows generated by subsidiaries plus the dividends received from joint ventures.
It therefore differs from the consolidated cash flow on page 51, which proportionately consolidates the cash flows of joint ventures.
The adjustment line in Figure 2 reconciles the movement in Group cash to the consolidated cash flow.
Finance review Serco Group plc 33 Figure 2: Cash flow Year ended 31 December 2007 2006 m m Operating profit excluding joint ventures 92.2 87.9 Non cash items 52.1 35.0 Group EBITDA 144.3 122.9 Working capital movement 4.7 2.1 Group operating cash flow 139.6 120.8 Interest 25.6 10.6 Tax 5.4 6.7 Expenditure on tangible and intangible assets 47.9 47.7 Dividends from joint ventures 36.9 29.6 Group free cash flow 97.6 85.4 Disposal of joint ventures 3.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 7.4 Cash received on sale of PFI investments 76.5 Cash disposed of and transaction costs on sale of PFIs 58.3 Other financing 71.0 98.6 Special pension contribution 51.0 19.0 Dividends paid 17.9 14.5 Group net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 46.4 28.5 Adjustment to include joint venture cash impacts 6.7 10.3 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 39.7 18.2 Note: Group EBITDA is earnings from subsidiaries excluding joint ventures before interest, tax, depreciation, intangible amortisation and other non cash items 3.1 Group operating cash flow Group operating cash flow of 139.6m 2006: 120.8m reflects a conversion of Group EBITDA into cash of 97% 2006: 98%.
This was a strong cash performance, given the level of organic growth in the business.
3.2 Interest Net interest paid was 25.6m, compared to 10.6m in 2006.
The increase is mainly due to lower cash interest receipts after the disposal of PFI investments in December 2006.
Cash tax is below the equivalent tax charge in the income statement.
This reflects timing differences and the availability of tax relief on the special pension contributions of 19m in December 2006 and 51m in January 2007.
3.4 Expenditure on tangible and intangible assets Expenditure on tangible and intangible assets in the year was 47.9m 2006: 47.7m.
This represents 2.2% of revenue excluding joint ventures 2006: 2.5%.
Expenditure in 2007 included the completion of the roll-out of our SAP system in the UK.
3.5 Dividends from joint ventures Dividends received from joint ventures totalled 36.9m 2006: 29.6m, a conversion rate of 100% 2006: 87% of joint ventures profit after tax and minority interest, excluding costs allocated by Group.
Going forward, we expect conversion in the range of 80-90%.
34 Serco Group plc Finance review 3.6 Other financing The movement in other financing resulted from repayments of our loans and the maturing of one of our private placements in December 2007 for 43.2m.
Net debt Figure 3 analyses Sercos net debt.
Figure 3: Net debt At 31 December 2007 2006 m m Group cash and cash equivalents 138.1 177.8 Group loans 263.3 334.4 Group obligations under finance leases 12.7 15.3 Group recourse net debt 137.9 171.9 Joint venture recourse net cash 34.9 28.2 Total recourse net debt 103.0 143.7 Group non recourse debt 59.3 62.2 Total net debt 162.3 205.9 4.1 Group recourse net debt Group recourse net debt decreased from 171.9m to 137.9m, due to the cash flows generated by the business.
Included within Group recourse net debt is 11.9m 2006: 10.6m of encumbered cash.
This is cash of PFI and other project companies securing credit obligations and customer advance payments.
4.2 Group non recourse debt The Group's debt is non recourse if no Group company other than the relevant borrower such as a special purpose company for a PFI has an obligation to repay the debt under a guarantee or other arrangement.
The debt is excluded from all of our credit agreements and other covenant calculations, and therefore has no impact on the Groups ability to borrow.
Group non recourse debt reduced by 2.9m to 59.3m during the year, due to scheduled repayments.
The non recourse debt relates to the Kilmarnock prison contract and our Driver Examination Services contract in Canada.
Pensions At 31 December 2007, the net liability included in the balance sheet arising from our defined benefit pension scheme obligations was 52.2m 2006: 120.0m.
Figure 4: Defined benefit pension schemes At 31 December 2007 2006 m m Group schemes non contract specific 67.9 157.8 Contract specific schemes reimbursable 60.7 67.6 not certain to be reimbursable 14.0 23.9 Net retirement benefit liabilities 142.6 249.3 Intangible assets arising from rights to operate franchises and contracts 17.4 20.6 Reimbursable rights debtor 60.7 67.6 Deferred tax assets 12.3 41.1 Net balance sheet liabilities 52.2 120.0 Finance review Serco Group plc 35 Serco has three main types of scheme which are accounted for as defined benefit pension schemes.
Each type has its own accounting treatment under International Financial Reporting Standards.
These are: Non contract specific schemes which do not relate to specific contracts or franchises.
For these schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss for the period to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense the SORIE Reimbursable schemes where we have a right of full cost reimbursement and therefore include both the pension scheme deficit and offsetting reimbursable rights debtor in the balance sheet Not certain to be reimbursable schemes relating to specific contracts or franchises, where the deficit will pass back to the customer or on to the next contractor at the end of the contract.
For these schemes, we charge the actuarial gain or loss on our share of the deficit for the period to the SORIE, recognise a recoverable intangible asset on the balance sheet at the start of the contract or franchise and amortise the intangible asset to the income statement over the contract or franchise life.
Serco has limited commercial risk in relation to the contract specific schemes, due to either the right of cost reimbursement or because the deficit will pass back to the customer or on to the next contractor at the end of the contract.
Among our non contract specific schemes, the largest is the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
The reduction in the deficit reflects the movement in bond yields and the action we have taken to ensure appropriate funding for the scheme, including the special pension contribution of 51m in January 2007.
Figure 5 shows the sensitivity of the liabilities of our pension schemes to changes in discount rates and to adjustments in the actuarial assumptions for the rate of inflation, members salary increases and life expectancies.
Figure 5: Pension assumption sensitivities Change in assumption Change in liability Discount rate 0.5% 9 % 0.5 % 10% Price inflation 0.5% 7% 0.5 % 7 % Salary 0.5% 3% 0.5 % 3 % Longevity Increase by one year 2.75% 6.
Treasury The Groups principal debt finance consists of a 400m bank credit facility comprising a term loan facility and a revolving credit facility.
At 31 December 2007 we had 141m 31 December 2006: 163m outstanding on the term loans and the revolving facility was undrawn.
Interest is charged at a rate of 45 basis points over LIBOR on borrowings under the facility.
The facility is unsecured and matures in December 2009.
Serco has also issued loan notes under two private placements.
The first private placement, for 43.2m, matured in December 2007 and was fully repaid.
The second, for 117.0m, amortises evenly from 2011 to 2015.
36 Serco Group plc Summary financial statement Summary financial statement The Summary Financial Statement has Dividends Corporate responsibility been produced to allow readers of the An interim dividend of 1.23p 2006 The Company has implemented across accounts an overview of the financial 1.05p per ordinary share was paid on the Group policies on environmental, affairs of Serco Group plc and its 17 October 2007.
The Directors health and safety matters and operates an subsidiaries the Group, through the recommend a final dividend of 3.02p Ethics and Business Conduct Policy principal financial statements, without the 2006 2.55p per ordinary share, which Standard.
need to refer to the more detailed Annual if approved by shareholders at the Annual Review and Accounts.
This Summary General Meeting, will be paid on 21 May Further information on environmental and Financial Statement is only a summary of 2008, to those shareholders on the employee health and safety matters is the Annual Review and Accounts which register at the close of business on 7 contained in the Corporate Responsibility contain the full annual accounts, other March 2008.
Report which is also available online at statutory information and the full www.
Directors The current members of the Board Donations Members who wish to receive the full together with biographical details of each The Group continues to encourage all Annual Review and Accounts for the year Director are set out on pages 47 to 48. staff to participate in their local ended 31 December 2007 should write to communities and has a process to the Company Secretary at the Companys Grant Rumbles was appointed to the capture investment on a worldwide basis.
Alternatively a copy of Board as Chief Operating Officer on 3 July This measure is based upon the Business the full Annual Review and Accounts can 2007.
DeAnne Julius retired as a Nonin The Community BiTC reporting format.
The value of this investment at Thomas A Corcoran was appointed a 1,134,941 2006: 942,340 represents The independent auditors report on the Non-Executive Director on 3 December 1% of the Groups pre tax profit, and full Annual Review and Accounts of the 2007. represents a 20.4% increase on Group for the year ended 31 December investment made in 2006.
2007 is unqualified and does not contain any statement containing inadequate Annual general meeting During the year neither the Company nor accounting records or failure to obtain The Annual General Meeting of the the Group made political donations and necessary information or explanations.
Company will be held at the Queen intends to continue with this policy.
Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London on 13 May 2008 at 11.00am.
Activities Corporate governance Serco Group plc is a holding company The Notice convening the meeting In managing the affairs of the Group, the which operates via its subsidiaries and its includes an explanation of all the Board of Serco Group plc is committed to joint ventures to improve services by resolutions to be proposed at the Annual achieving high standards of corporate managing people, processes, technology General Meeting.
A copy can be governance, integrity and business ethics and assets more effectively.
com and for all its activities around the world.
A supports governments, agencies and is sent to all shareholders.
fundamental part of the Groups corporate companies by offering operational, governance processes is the Ethics and management and consulting expertise in Business Conduct Policy Standard that the aviation, defence, education, health, the Company and Group have adopted to home affairs, local government, nuclear, support the highest standards of science, technology, transport and corporate governance.
Summary financial statement Serco Group plc 37 In 2007 Serco Group plc fully complied In setting remuneration of the Executive The Remuneration with the provisions of Code of Best Directors, in particular the corporate Committee Practice set out in Section 1 of July 2003 objectives relating to the annual bonus The Committee determines the overall Financial Reporting Council and as scheme, the Remuneration Committee is remuneration policy for senior superseded by the Combined Code on able to consider corporate performance management and the individual Corporate Governance issued by the on environmental, social and corporate remuneration packages of the Chairman Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 governance issues and retains discretion and the Executive Directors.
to reduce bonuses or share incentives base salary, bonus, long-term incentives, should performance in these areas be pensions, benefits and terms of unsatisfactory.
Board and Committee employment including those terms on structure which service may be terminated.
The Committee believes that the existing To support the principles of good executive remuneration principles remain corporate governance, the Board, the appropriate but will be carrying out a Remuneration policy and members of which are shown on pages further triennial review during 2008 and practice 47 to 48 is responsible for the overall any changes will be set out in detail in During 2005, the Committee carried out management and performance of the next years report.
its triennial comprehensive review of Group and the approval of its long-term executive remuneration to ensure that the objectives and commercial strategy, and Groups arrangements continue to be for ensuring that any necessary corrective aligned with the business strategy and action is taken promptly.
There are four current best practice.
regular Board meetings a year held over two days and further meetings as As a result of the review, changes were needed.
made to the 2006 remuneration structure and packages which were detailed in the The following are the main committees of 2005 and subsequent Annual Review and the Board: Accounts and have been followed since.
Audit The following principles described below Remuneration have been adopted to determine the Nomination remuneration package of the Executive Training and Development.
The remuneration should: The Audit and Remuneration committees Support Sercos business strategy consist wholly of independent NonAlign the financial interests of executives Executive Directors.
and shareholders Provide market competitive reward opportunities for performance in line Going concern with expectations, but have the The Directors confirm that they have a potential to deliver significant financial reasonable expectation that the Group rewards for sustained out-performance has adequate resources to continue in Reflect UK market norms operational existence for the foreseeable Be supported by a clear rationale which future and therefore continue to adopt the participants, shareholders and other going concern basis in preparing the stakeholders are able to understand.
38 Serco Group plc Summary financial statement In 2007, the base salaries for Christopher Remuneration package Hyman, Andrew Jenner and Grant Composition Rumbles were increased by 5.66%, The current remuneration package for 5.50% and 6.67% respectively.
Base Executive Directors consists of base salary increases are in line with executive salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, pay increases in the comparator group.
The Groups policy is to ensure that a significant Annual bonuses proportion of the package is performance For 2007, the annual bonuses for related, even at target levels.
Executive Directors were to be calculated The relative proportions of performance as follows: and non-performance related remuneration The threshold payment at 20% of base for an Executive Directors on-target salary remuneration are shown in the chart below.
The target payment at 50% of base salary The maximum payment at 100% of base salary.
The criteria for performance measurement 46% 36% comprise a mix of financial and corporate measures that account for 80% and 20% of the bonus allocation respectively.
Financial measures are based on the Serco Group results and the corporate measures are team based.
The financial measures for 2007 were based on turnover, Adjusted PBT and cash conversion.
These measures reflect the 18% growth and margin improvement strategies of the business and are extremely stretching at the maximum end.
Base salary The 20% allocated to corporate measures was split between performance on a Performance-related long-term number of strategically important projects incentives expected value including leadership development, new Performance-related annual bonus business success, SAP implementation target and investor relations.
Based on the achievement of stretching turnover and Adjusted PBT of 2,811m Base salary and 123m respectively and achievement The Committees policy is to set the base of the goals under the personal salaries of the Executive Directors at the objectives, a bonus equal to 88.9% of median of a comparator group of base salary will be paid for performance companies, which consists of 14 during 2007.
The bonus is calculated on companies in the FTSE 250 Index of the salary at the time of the award.
broadly similar size and business fit.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
and the Committee takes note of relative pay and employment conditions within the comparator group in determining salary increases.
Summary financial statement Serco Group plc 39 The proportion of awards that vest will be Deferred bonus scheme Share-based incentives determined by the following schedule: For bonuses paid in respect of the 2003, Long-term share incentives are awarded 2004 and 2005 financial years, the annual to Executive Directors under the Serco No part of the awards will vest if the bonus plan included the ability for the Group plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan Groups TSR is below the median of the Executive Directors to defer a portion of and the Serco Group plc 2005 Executive comparator group the bonus earned.
Participants could elect Option Plan.
Previous long-term share 30% of awards will vest for median to defer, for three financial years, up to incentives were granted under the Serco performance 100% of the bonus earned by purchasing Group 2005 Long Term Incentive shares in the Group pursuant to the terms Scheme and 1998 Executive Option 100% of awards will vest for upper of 2003 Deferred Bonus Scheme.
The various scheme and plan rules quartile performance shares purchased will be matched by the have all been approved by shareholders Between median and upper quartile Company if stretching performance at Annual General Meetings.
All grants performance a proportion between targets are met.
and awards are made pursuant to the 30% and 100% of the awards will vest rules of the applicable plans and in The performance condition for matching pro rata accordance with the Model Code and shares on deferred bonuses is total 200% of awards will vest for top decile policies in relation to the treatment of the shareholder return TSR relative to performance leavers have been adopted.
The companies comprising the FTSE 350 Index measurement of the performance targets Between upper quartile and top decile, and measured over the three-year deferral is undertaken by Ernst & Young in a proportion between 100% and 200% period.
The matching shares awarded are relation to the Long Term Incentive will vest pro rata.
based on the following criteria: Scheme and Executive Option Plan, while The Committee has discretion to vary the No matching shares will be awarded if Mercer undertake the measurement for proportion of awards that vests if it considers the Group does not meet or exceed the the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The that the TSR performance measure does median TSR of the comparator group conditions relating to the schemes are not appropriately reflect the underlying detailed below.
A one for two match of shares deferred financial performance of the Group.
will be made if performance is at the Long Term Incentive Plan There is no re-testing under the LTIP.
median Shareholders approved the Serco Group A one for one match of shares deferred plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Executive Option Plan will be made if performance is at or at the Annual General Meeting held in The Serco Group plc 2005 Executive above the upper quartile.
The LTIP awards granted to Option Plan EOP was approved at the Executive Directors are calculated at There is no further opportunity for the Annual General Meeting held in April 2005 100% of salary at the time of grant.
Executive Directors to defer bonuses paid.
as a replacement for the Serco Group An award of 100% of salary was made 1998 Executive Option Plan.
Since the For the bonuses paid in respect of the at the normal annual award time in approval of the 2005 Plan, no options 2004 financial year and deferred for the November 2007 for evaluation between have been granted under the 1998 Plan, three financial years up to 31 December 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2010. which is now closed.
2007, TSR performance relative to the The vesting of awards made during 2007 comparator group was in the upper will depend on the Groups TSR measured quartile 84th percentile.
A one for one relative to the top 250 companies in the match of shares deferred will be made in FTSE, as ranked by market capitalisation, March 2008. excluding those in certain sectors which are not comparable with the Group.
40 Serco Group plc Summary financial statement Options granted under the EOP may be If the level of EPS growth is equal to RPI Post 1 January 2003 Awards: For awards exercised after the third anniversary of 10% per annum, all of the options granted on or after 1 January 2003, grant, depending upon the achievement of may be exercised achievement of the performance is a financial performance target over three measured by reference to the Groups TSR For an EPS growth of between RPI years.
The options are granted at market performance relative to the companies 5% and RPI 10% per annum, a value and awards made to Executive comprising the FTSE 350 Index at the start proportion of the options between 40% Directors are based on 100% of salary as of the performance period.
at the 31 December prior to grant.
The vesting of the awards is based on the For option grants which completed their Pre 1 January 2003 Grants: For grants following schedule: performance period on 31 December made in relation to performance periods 2007, the Groups EPS growth was No part of the awards will vest if the commencing up to and including 18.56% per annum over the three-year Groups performance is below the 1 January 2002, the extent to which an performance period which resulted in all median of the comparator group over option vests and therefore becomes options vesting.
The level at which the three-year performance period exercisable is measured by reference to maximum vesting would occur was 40% of the awards will vest if absolute growth in the Groups earnings 13.46% per annum.
performance is at the median per share EPS over the three-year performance period.
The awards vest in full if performance Long Term Incentive Scheme reaches or exceeds the upper quartile The vesting of the grants is based on the Prior to the approval of the 2006 Long following schedule: Term Incentive Plan, awards were granted For performance between the median under the Long Term Incentive Scheme and the upper quartile, a proportion If the annual compound growth in EPS LTIS.
Awards granted under the LTIS may between 40% and 100% of the is less than 10%, none of the options be exercised after the third anniversary of awards will vest pro rata.
may be exercised grant once confirmation has been received For awards which completed their If compound growth in EPS is more than from the auditors regarding the performance period on 31 December 15%, all of the options may be exercised achievement of the performance criteria.
2007, the Groups TSR performance was For a compound growth in EPS of Pre 1 January 2003 Awards: For awards in the upper quartile 84th percentile of between 10% and 15%, a proportion of made in relation to performance periods the comparator group over the three-year the options may be exercised.
commencing up to and including performance period, resulting in the 1 January 2002, the extent to which an Post 1 January 2003 Grants: For awards awards vesting in full.
award vests and therefore becomes granted on or after 1 January 2003, The Committee considers that TSR and exercisable is measured by reference to achievement of the performance is EPS are the key performance indicators the absolute growth in the Groups EPS measured by reference to the Groups for Serco and are most relevant for over the performance period of three EPS performance relative to the Retail measuring relative shareholder value financial years.
Price Index RPI over the three-year created and the Groups underlying performance period.
The vesting of the awards is based on financial performance respectively.
the following criteria: The vesting of the grants is based on the following schedule: Full vesting will only occur if the cumulative EPS growth over the threeIf the level of EPS growth is less than year performance period is at least 64% RPI 5% per annum, none of the options may be exercised Awards will partially vest where the cumulative EPS growth is at least 35% If the level of EPS growth is equal to RPI 5% per annum, 40% of the options Awards will vest on a straight line basis may be exercised for each percentage increase in EPS growth above 35% over the three-year period until full vesting is achieved.
Summary financial statement Serco Group plc 41 Sharesave Scheme However, from this date Serco also The Group operates a Sharesave Scheme.
introduced SMART whereby all members No performance conditions are attached were given the option to have their to options granted under the Scheme as it pension contributions paid by salary is an all-employee scheme.
Under this arrangement the granted to Scheme participants are member makes no normal pension normally set at a discount of 10% to the contributions, Serco makes additional market value of shares at grant.
None of contributions to SPLAS equal to those that the Directors participate in the Sharesave the member would otherwise have made Scheme.
The options granted under the and the members contractual pay is Scheme in 2004 matured on 1 June 2007. reduced by the amount of these contributions.
Both Christopher Hyman and Andrew Jenner opted to have their External appointments contributions paid by SMART.
The Board believes that the Group can benefit from its Executive Directors Kevin Beestons and Grant Rumbles holding appropriate Non-Executive pension benefits accrued prior to 6 April Directorships of companies or 2006 exceeded the new Lifetime independent bodies.
Such appointments Allowance, which came into force at that are subject to the approval of the Board.
date, and they opted to cease paying Fees may be retained by the Executive contributions and accruing benefits in the Director concerned.
Since that time, and prior to his becoming Christopher Hyman is a Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman, Kevin Beeston Director of United Business Media plc for had been in receipt of a cash allowance which the fees payable in the year were equal to 33% of his base salary in lieu of 45,000.
He does not receive any other further pension provision.
This ceased on fees from Non-Executive directorships held.
No other fee-paying external positions were Grant Rumbles is in receipt of a cash held by any of the Executive Directors.
allowance of 22% of his base salary in lieu of further pension provision.
Pensions and life assurance Serco operates both defined benefit and Kevin Beeston and Grant Rumbles defined contribution pension schemes.
remain entitled to lump sum and widows The Executive Directors participate in the pension benefits should they die before Serco Pension and Life Assurance retirement and whilst still employed by or Scheme SPLAS.
This is a funded, defined an officer of Serco.
benefit scheme, which provides for a pension of two-thirds of pensionable salary Non-Executive Directors following a full career.
Members contribute On 1 September 2007, after 22 years to the scheme at rates varying according with Serco and as communicated to to the section of the scheme.
shareholders in 2006, Kevin Beeston Christopher Hyman and Andrew Jenner moved from Executive Chairman to Noncontributed to the scheme at 8% of Executive Chairman.
As from this date he pensionable salary up to 31 December is no longer eligible to participate in the 2006 subject to Inland Revenue limits Groups annual bonus and long-term prior to 6 April 2006.
This rate increased incentive plans, save those grants made to 9.5% with effect from 1 January 2007. during his tenure as an Executive Director.
The Groups policy is that the fees of the Non-Executive Directors, which are determined by the Board, are set at a level which will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
42 Serco Group plc Summary financial statement Service contracts and compensation Each Executive Director has a rolling service contract with the Company and these service contracts will be available for inspection prior to the start of and after the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The service contracts all have a notice period of 12 months.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
There have been no payments made during the year in relation to compensation for loss of office.
A summary of details relating to each Director who served during the year is provided below: Date of Date joined Appointment to Date of Unexpired term at Name of Director Company the Board Contract 31 December 2007 Non-Executive Chairman: Kevin Beeston 29 April 1985 29 February 1996 1 September 2007 30 months Executive Directors: Christopher Hyman 30 August 1994 1 April 1999 21 July 2003 Rolling contract with 12 months notice period Andrew Jenner 4 November 1996 3 May 2002 21 July 2003 Rolling contract with 12 months notice period Grant Rumbles 3 July 1982 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 Rolling contract with 12 months notice period Date of Appointment Date of Letter Unexpired term at to the Board of Appointment 31 December 2007 Non-Executive Directors: Margaret Ford 8 October 2003 7 October 2003 21 months Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 3 April 2006 20 February 2006 15 months David Richardson 2 June 2003 29 May 2003 17 months Thomas A Corcoran 3 December 2007 3 December 2007 35 months Note: Non-Executive Directors have a three-month notice period and no compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
Summary financial statement Serco Group plc 43 Directors remuneration This section has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The bonuses shown include performance bonuses earned in the period under review, but not paid in the financial year.
The value of the non cash benefits relates to the provision of a car allowance and private healthcare.
The allowance comprises payments made to Kevin Beeston, whilst he was Executive Chairman, and Grant Rumbles in lieu of pension, calculated as a percentage of base salary, from which they make their own pension arrangements further details as set out in the section on Directors Pensions on page 45.
Grant Rumbles was appointed to the Board on 3 July 2007.
Remuneration is only disclosed for the period from his appointment.
DeAnne Julius retired from the Board on 29 October 2007.
Thomas A Corcoran was appointed to the Board on 3 December 2007.
Remuneration is shown gross of salary sacrificed under the SMART scheme.
Directors shareholdings The Directors interests in the shares of the Company are detailed in the following table.
Each of the Executive Directors is encouraged to maintain a shareholding equal to one years base salary, to be built up over three years where newly appointed to the Board.
Ordinary shares of 2p each fully paid at 1 January 2007 or Ordinary shares of 2p Note if later the date of each fully paid at 1 appointment as Director 31 December 2007 Kevin Beeston 159,413 138,218 Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 1,935 3,375 Margaret Ford 7,392 11,686 Christopher Hyman 2 134,885 156,457 Andrew Jenner 2 84,351 97,062 David Richardson 10,000 10,000 Grant Rumbles 3 Nil Nil Thomas A Corcoran 4 Nil Nil Notes: 1.
Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
27,779 of Christopher Hymans and 16,667 of Andrew Jenners shares are held in trust on their behalf under the terms of their participation in the Deferred Bonus Scheme.
Provided such shares remain in trust for three years and subject to certain performance conditions, they are also granted an award over an equivalent number of shares.
44 Serco Group plc Summary financial statement Share-based incentives i Serco Group plc 2003 Deferred Bonus Scheme DBS This scheme has now been closed and no further awards will be made under its terms.
Conditional rights to receive matching shares over Serco Group plcs ordinary shares under the Scheme held by Directors at 31 December 2007 were as follows: Awards held at 31 December 2007 Performance period Earliest vesting date Christopher Hyman 10,030 1 Jan 2005 - 31 Dec 2007 9 Mar 2008 17,749 1 Jan 2006 - 31 Dec 2008 22 Mar 2009 Andrew Jenner 6,018 1 Jan 2005 - 31 Dec 2007 9 Mar 2008 10,649 1 Jan 2006 - 31 Dec 2008 22 Mar 2009 ii Serco Group plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The conditional rights to Serco Group plc ordinary shares under the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan held by Directors at 31 December 2007 were as follows: Awards held at Market price on award 31 December 2007 pence Performance period Kevin Beeston 147,928 349 1 Jan 2006 - 31 Dec 2008 145,205 373 1 Jan 2007 - 31 Dec 2009 Christopher Hyman 147,928 349 1 Jan 2006 - 31 Dec 2008 145,205 373 1 Jan 2007 - 31 Dec 2009 122,874 456 1 Jan 2008 - 31 Dec 2010 Andrew Jenner 88,757 349 1 Jan 2006 - 31 Dec 2008 89,589 373 1 Jan 2007 - 31 Dec 2009 75,699 456 1 Jan 2008 - 31 Dec 2010 Grant Rumbles 43,550 349 1 Jan 2006 - 31 Dec 2008 33,892 510 1 Jan 2007 - 31 Dec 2009 70,213 456 1 Jan 2008 - 31 Dec 2010 iii Serco Group plc Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS The LTIS has been superseded by the Serco Group plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The last award to Executive Directors under the Scheme was made in June 2005.
Those shares that vested on 31 December 2007 had a market price of 462 pence.
Awards held at Awards held at 1 January 2007 Vested during the period 31 December 2007 Kevin Beeston 526,451 119,411 526,451 Christopher Hyman 507,484 119,411 507,484 Andrew Jenner 243,320 76,101 243,320 Grant Rumbles 45,454 45,454 45,454 Summary financial statement Serco Group plc 45 iv Serco Group plc 1998 and 2005 Executive Option Plan EOP Options over Serco Group plc ordinary shares granted under the 1998 Executive Share Option Plan and the 2005 Executive Share Option Plan and held by Executive Directors at 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 were as follows: Options Market Exercise held at Granted Exercised price on price of new Balance as 1 January during during exercise date options granted at 31 December 2007 period period pence pence 2007 Kevin Beeston 1,285,028 120,798 13,788 434 439 1,392,038 Christopher Hyman 1,164,099 120,798 439 1,284,897 Andrew Jenner 620,373 74,530 439 694,903 Grant Rumbles 346,190 61,538 439 407,728 Pensions and life assurance The Directors receive pension and life assurance benefits consistent with those provided by other leading companies.
The details of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group are set out on page 41.
In the event of death in service, each scheme provides for a lump sum payment as well as a dependants pension.
Years of Total accrued pension at Age Pensionable Service year end Kevin Beeston 45 21 272,106 Christopher Hyman 44 10 60,544 Andrew Jenner 39 6 32,440 Grant Rumbles 50 24 139,884 46 Serco Group plc Summary financial statement Comparison of total shareholder returns Serco Group plc total shareholder return TSR vs FTSE 350 Total Return Index Value of investment of 100 on 31 December 2002 325 300 275 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 Serco FTSE 350 Index In drawing this graph, it has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30-day period up to and including that date.
The Companys TSR is compared to that of the FTSE 350 Index, which is a broad equity market index in which it is a constituent.
As detailed earlier, TSR is defined as the return shareholders would receive if they held a notional number of shares, and received dividends on those shares over a period of time.
It measures the percentage growth in the Companys share price together with the value of any dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested into the Companys shares.
Directors profiles Serco Group plc 47 From left to right: Joanne Roberts Company Secretary Leonard V. Broese van Groenou Non-Executive Director Christopher Hyman Chief Executive Andrew Jenner Finance Director Kevin Beeston Chairman David Richardson Non-Executive Director Margaret, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Non-Executive Director Grant Rumbles Chief Operating Officer Directors profiles Kevin Beeston FCMA 45 Christopher Hyman CA SA 1, 4 Chairman 44 Chair of the Nomination and Training Chief Executive and Development Committees Christopher Hyman was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
Kevin Beeston became Non-Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc in He is also Non-Executive Director of September 2007, having previously served United Business Media plc, the Prince of as the Groups Executive Chairman, Chief Wales charity In Kind Direct, Habitat for Executive and Finance Director.
Humanity and the Borneo Tropical Rainforest Foundation.
He is also a He is a member of the CBI Presidents member of the UK Governments Honours Committee and Chairman of the CBIs Advisory Committee for Economy.
Public Services Strategy Board, which promotes the role business has in Christopher graduated from Natal transforming the UKs public services and University in Durban, South Africa and he is a Commissioner for the TUCs qualified as a chartered accountant, Commission on Vulnerable Employment.
serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the In addition, he is the Non-Executive European Finance Director.
He was Chairman of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas appointed Group Company Secretary in Learning and Domestic and General Ltd, 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and holds Non-Executive Director and Group Finance Director in April 1999. positions on the boards of IMI plc and He is responsible for setting the vision and Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
48 Serco Group plc Directors profiles Andrew Jenner ACA 39 Leonard V. Broese van David Richardson BSc FCA Finance Director Groenou MSc 61 56 Andrew Jenner joined Serco in 1996 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director having previously worked for Unilever and Chair of the Remuneration Chair of the Audit Committee Deloitte & Touche LLP.
He has held a Committee number of positions at Serco including David Richardson joined Serco as a NonLeonard V. Broese van Groenou joined Group Financial Controller and Corporate Executive Director in June 2003.
He has Serco as a Non-Executive Director in April Finance Director.
Andrew became Group previously held the position of Finance 2006.
Leonard was previously Vice Finance Director and joined the Board in Director of Whitbread, where his roles in a President Human Resources and member May 2002.
As well as setting the Groups 20-year career have included eight years of the corporate executive committee of financial strategy, Andrew is responsible as Strategy Director.
David was Pennsylvania-based Air Products, a New for its PFI investment business and the instrumental in transforming Whitbread York listed company serving customers in development of risk management across from a brewing and pubs company into a technology, energy, healthcare and the Group.
He shares responsibility for market leader in hotels, restaurants and industrial markets worldwide, where he our relationship with shareholders and the leisure clubs.
His career at City with the Chief Executive.
David is a Non-Executive Director of Dairy Air Products spans numerous international Crest Group Plc, Forth Ports Plc, Tomkins roles including financial control, business plc and The Restaurant Group plc.
planning, operational management and Thomas A Corcoran BA PhD human resources.
63 Grant Rumbles 50 1, 2, 3, 4 Non-Executive Director Chief Operating Officer Baroness Ford of Thomas Corcoran joined Serco in Grant Rumbles is Chief Operating Officer Cunninghame MA MPhil December 2007 as a Non-Executive of Serco Group plc.
He brings 40 years of global 50 Having joined Serco in 1982, Grant has business experience, particularly in the US 1, 2, 3, 4 Senior Independent Director led several Serco divisions including aerospace and defence contracting Margaret Ford joined Serco in October Continental Europe, Middle East and the industry.
He is currently Senior Advisor to 2003 as a Non-Executive Director.
She Groups IT and BPO division.
private equity firm The Carlyle Group and spent her early career in a variety of roles President of Corcoran Enterprises, LLC, a either in the public sector or as an advisor In 2001 he was appointed to the Global management consulting firm.
to Government and is a specialist in Management Board and in 2004 he was leadership development, culture change promoted to Chief Operating Officer, Thomas has held senior positions in the and public sector reform.
From 1997 to responsible for the day-to-day operations aerospace, defence and electronics 2000 she was Chairman of Lothian Health of the Group.
Grant is also responsible for industries including Chairman and Chief Board and from 2000 to 2003 was a Nonleading the development of best practice, Executive Officer of Allegheny Teledyne Executive Director of Ofgem.
From 2000 corporate responsibility and sustainable and President and Chief Operating Officer to 2005 Margaret was a Director of Good growth across the Group.
of Lockheed Martins Electronic and Practice Limited, the publishing company Space Sectors.
During his 26 years with Grant is a member of the Executive Board that she founded.
General Electric, Thomas held senior of the Princes Trust Construction and management positions including Vice In December 2007 Margaret retired from Business Services Leadership Group.
President and General Manager of GE's English Partnerships, the national Aerospace operations.
regeneration agency, after six highly successful years.
Margaret is Managing He is also Non-Executive Director of Aer Director, Social Infrastructure and Lingus Ltd, L3 Communications Holdings Development, Royal Bank of Canada Inc, Labarge Inc, REMEC Inc and Capital Markets and Chairman of Irvine ARINC Inc. Bay Urban Regeneration Company.
1 Member of the Training and Development Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Member of the Nomination Committee Financial statements Serco Group plc 49 Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Continuing operations Revenue 2,810.7 2,548.2 Cost of sales 2,404.5 2,182.5 Gross profit 406.2 365.7 Administrative expenses 264.2 242.9 Other expenses amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition 8.6 9.0 Total administrative expenses 272.8 251.9 Gain on sale of PFI investments 11.4 Operating profit 133.4 125.2 Investment revenue 12.2 31.7 Finance costs 31.0 49.5 Profit before tax 114.6 107.4 Tax 32.2 27.9 Profit for the year 82.4 79.5 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 81.9 78.3 Minority interest 0.5 1.2 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS 16.98p 16.62p Diluted EPS 16.74p 16.43p Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Net actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 62.2 78.9 Actuarial loss on reimbursable rights 19.4 53.4 Net exchange gain loss on translation of foreign operations 12.8 12.3 Fair value gain on cash flow hedges during the year 9.0 2.2 Tax charge on items taken directly to equity 11.5 7.0 Net income recognised directly in equity 53.1 8.4 Profit for the year 82.4 79.5 Total recognised income and expense for the year 135.5 87.9 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 134.9 87.1 Minority interest 0.6 0.8 50 Serco Group plc Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet At 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 542.1 528.5 Other intangible assets 139.4 126.1 Property, plant and equipment 95.1 93.6 Trade and other receivables 104.6 110.5 Deferred tax assets 51.6 73.7 Derivative financial instruments 1.2 934.0 932.4 Current assets Inventories 46.3 51.7 Trade and other receivables 573.6 463.3 Cash and cash equivalents 185.0 217.9 Derivative financial instruments 1.5 806.4 732.9 Total assets 1,740.4 1,665.3 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 670.0 541.9 Current tax liabilities 14.8 13.0 Obligations under finance leases 7.7 8.3 Loans 13.5 57.9 Derivative financial instruments 2.1 10.6 708.1 631.7 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 13.3 10.4 Obligations under finance leases 8.7 11.5 Loans 317.4 346.1 Derivative financial instruments 11.2 14.2 Retirement benefit obligations 142.6 249.3 Provisions 18.6 22.3 Deferred tax liabilities 22.0 19.9 533.8 673.7 Total liabilities 1,241.9 1,305.4 Net assets 498.5 359.9 Equity Share capital 9.7 9.5 Share premium account 299.3 283.5 Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings 260.6 196.6 Retirement benefit obligations reserve 90.2 119.5 Share-based payment reserve 34.6 25.5 Own shares reserve 15.1 16.4 Hedging and translation reserve 1.8 21.3 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 497.2 358.0 Minority interest 1.3 1.9 Total equity 498.5 359.9 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Christopher Hyman Andrew Jenner Chief Executive Finance Director Financial statements Serco Group plc 51 Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December 2007 2007 2006 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 134.1 159.5 Investing activities Interest received 10.3 32.4 Disposal of joint ventures 2.5 18.2 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1.7 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.9 1.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 9.1 Purchase of other intangible assets 30.6 30.4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 26.2 27.8 Net cash outflow from investing activities 48.5 6.2 Financing activities Interest paid 34.2 42.2 Dividends paid 17.9 14.5 Dividend paid to minority interest 1.2 1.0 Repayment of borrowings 74.6 103.4 New loan advances 2.2 9.4 Capital element of finance lease repayments 8.4 8.6 Proceeds from issue of share capital and exercise of share options 17.1 14.1 Decrease in non recourse loans 8.3 25.3 Net cash outflow from financing activities 125.3 171.5 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 39.7 18.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 217.9 240.7 Net exchange gain loss 6.8 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 185.0 217.9 52 Serco Group plc Independent auditors statement Independent auditors statement Independent auditors Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance statement to the members with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors of Serco Group plc Statement on the Summary Financial We have examined the summary financial Statement issued by the Auditing statement which comprises the summary Practices Board for use in the United consolidated income statement, summary Kingdom.
Our report on the company's full consolidated statement of recognised annual financial statements describes the income and expense, summary basis of our audit opinions on those consolidated balance sheet and the financial statements and the directors' summary consolidated cash flow remuneration report.
statement and the summary directors remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the Opinion Company's members, as a body, in In our opinion, the summary financial accordance with section 251 of the statement is consistent with the full annual Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been accounts, the directors report and the undertaken so that we might state to the directors remuneration report of Serco Companys members those matters we Group plc for the year ended 31 are required to state to them in an December 2007 and complies with the auditors report and for no other purpose.
applicable requirements of section 251 of To the fullest extent permitted by law, we the Companies Act 1985, and the do not accept or assume responsibility to regulations made thereunder.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered directors and auditors Auditors The directors are responsible for preparing London the summary financial statement in accordance with United Kingdom law.
27 February 2008 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the summary financial statement as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Shareholder information Serco Group plc 53 Shareholder information Group website Global payment services Go to www.
54 Serco Group plc Shareholder information Share dealing We have arranged the following services that can be used to buy or sell Serco shares.
of shares % 1 1,000 4,120 44.50 1,890,947 0.39 1,001 5,000 3,553 38.38 8,042,396 1.66 5,001 10,000 591 6.38 4,189,022 0.86 10,001 100,000 641 6.92 20,453,459 4.22 100,001 500,000 205 2.21 49,397,220 10.18 500,001 1,000,000 49 0.53 35,394,769 7.30 1,000,001 10,000,000 89 0.96 208,598,028 43.01 10,000,001 and above 11 0.12 157,083,776 32.38 Total 9,259 100.00 485,049,617 100.00 Financial calendar Serco Group plc 55 Financial calendar 2008 27 February Preliminary results announcement 5 March Ex-dividend date 7 March Record date 29 April Last date for receipt revocation of DRIP dividend mandates 13 May Interim Management Statement 13 May Annual General Meeting 21 May Final dividend pay date 27 August Interim results announcement October Interim dividend pay date November Interim Management Statement 31 December Financial year end 56 Serco Group plc Contents 1 Introduction 4 Highlights 6 Our Business 8 Chairmans Statement 10 Chief Executives Statement 13 Governing Principles 14 Sercos Strategy 16 Operating Performance 28 Market Development 30 Finance Review 36 Summary Financial Statement Printed on 9lives 80 silk which is certified as an FSC 47 Directors Profiles mixed sources product, 9lives 80 is produced using 49 Consolidated Income Statement 20% recycled wood and fibre, 60% FSC certified fide-inked fibre recovered from post-consumer 49 Consolidated Statement of sources, 10% FSC accredited virgin TCF fibre and Recognised Income and Expense 10% virgin fibre from sustainable forests.
co. uk 1996 Forest Stewardship Council Bringing service to life Improving service, increasing value Serco Group plc Registered Office: Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way Hook Hampshire RG27 9UY T: 44 0 1256 745 900 E: generalenquiries@serco.
com Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2007
