56 Serco Group plc Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for keeping the Annual Review and Accounts.
The proper accounting records which disclose Directors are required to prepare financial with reasonable accuracy at any time the statements for the Group in accordance financial position of the Group, for with International Financial Reporting safeguarding the assets, for taking Standards IFRS, the Companies Act reasonable steps for the prevention and 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors They have elected to prepare financial Report and Directors Remuneration statements for the Company in Report which comply with the accordance with UK Generally Accepted requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are also responsible for the Company law requires the Directors to maintenance and integrity of the prepare such financial statements in Company website.
Legislation in the accordance with IFRS, the Companies United Kingdom governing the 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
preparation and dissemination of financial IAS 1 Presentation of Financial statements may differ from legislation in Statements requires that financial other jurisdictions.
statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, Approved by the Board of Directors and financial performance and cash flows.
signed on its behalf by: This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses Joanne Roberts set out in the International Accounting Secretary Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial 27 February 2008 Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance.
