16 Serco Group plc Business review Operating performance Civil Government Civil Government Civil Government is our largest segment and includes home affairs, information technology and business process outsourcing, integrated facilities management, health, education and childrens services, consulting and much of our work in the private sector.
2007 saw an increasing requirement for Revenue IT and BPO Services technological content in these markets, In UK local government, Glasgow City as customers looked to procure more Council approved the creation of a sophisticated services.
Segmental partnership with Serco, to transform the 952m revenue increased by 8.8% to 952m, councils land, property and information representing 34% of Group revenue and communications technology ICT 8.8% 2006: 34%.
The partnership will be worth 265m to Serco over ten years and will Home Affairs also position us to support the Council on Some of the things we do We had two notable successes with the transformational projects, to improve the UK Home Office.
Trusted Borders, a Border protection Councils efficiency and service delivery.
consortium of which Serco is a key The partnership is the first of its kind in Prisons management member, signed a contract to develop Scotland and is expected to save the Education and childrens services and implement the nations e-Borders Council more than 70m.
Environmental services project, an advanced border control and Government portal management management programme.
Serco is We also secured a 30m, ten-year Health management and hospital responsible for infrastructure and service partnership with Ealing Council, to provide support management.
The contract is valued at ICT support, and Southwark Council IT and IT-enabled services around 200m to Serco over ten years.
selected Serco to provide and support its We also won a contract to manage and Management consultancy ICT infrastructure, in a five-year deal operate Yarls Wood Immigration Removal valued at 26m.
The contract began in April 2007 Council appointed us for an IT partnership for an initial three years, with optional to manage desktop services more extensions for up to eight years.
Over the effectively and offer access to our wider IT full eight years, the contract is valued at and business process capabilities.
contract is valued at around 14m over seven years.
West Sussex is a new We continued to build our presence in the customer for Serco.
Australian home affairs market, winning contracts to manage and operate We successfully rebid our contract with Borallon Correctional Centre and to Regione Lombardia, one of the largest provide safety camera services.
Borallon, local authorities in Europe, to provide near Brisbane, accommodates 500 male outsourced services for its IT infrastructure.
This contract with the The initial contract is valued at around Queensland Department of Corrective 14m over six years, with additional Services is valued at around Aus$100m services identified expected to expand this.
over five years, with the potential for a further five-year extension.
The safety camera contract is with the Victoria Department of Justice.
The four-year contract is valued at Aus$90m, with the potential for a three-year extension.
Business review Operating performance Civil Government Serco Group plc 17 Providing resources to help businesses bloom BusinessLink.
gov brings together business information from more than 600 governmental and agency experts in one easy-to-access website.
By providing the tools and resources which businesses really need, such as grant forms and annual leave calculators, BusinessLink has become one of the key gateways between Government and the business community.
Serco won the contract to deliver the already successful Business.
We have worked to increase awareness of the programme, improving communication, aligning with other major business initiatives across Government and co-ordinating channels to promote continuity of information to businesses.
We are personalising services to the needs of individual businesses, eliminating duplication of information and promoting efficiency.
At the same time we are making it easier for businesses to transact with Government.
Our enhancements to delivery will reduce costs by more than 25m over the life of the contract.
A key development has been to put in place systems to ensure that the BusinessLink website is delivering tangible value to business.
A survey in 2007 showed a marked increase in the value delivered from c2bn to 4bn.
This translates into a saving of 100 for UK businesses for every 1 invested by the programme.
The National Audit Office recognises the programme as an example of best practice.
18 Serco Group plc Business review Operating performance Civil Government Severn Trent one of the worlds largest Integrated Facilities Management private water companies awarded Serco Our integrated facilities management a five-year IT infrastructure framework business had several notable successes.
We signed a 450m, 30-year contract to We will provide programme and project provide support to the new NHS Forth management, consulting, technical Valley Acute Hospital, drawing on our delivery, IT engineering and technology healthcare experience to influence the refresh services.
hospitals design and thereby enhance infection control.
Innovations include We continued to enhance our position as segregation of patient, visitor and goods the leader in the UK business support traffic as well as the introduction of proven market, winning a contract with the South robotic technology to support the West Regional Development Agency to movement of goods around the hospital provide the BusinessLink service for site.
The contract will begin in 2010.
The contract is for 28 months and is We signed contracts to provide valued at around 15m.
operational management to the United Arab Emirates University in Al Ain 70m The US Postal Service Engineering over ten years, and to deliver property Organization appointed Serco to provide management and support services to engineering, technical, project State Street Bank 50m over five years.
The twoWe were also awarded contracts to year contract has four two-year options provide support services to Coca Cola at and over the full ten years has a potential its London headquarters 10m over five value of $260m, a sizeable increase over years and to Volkswagens UK our previous contract.
The latest contract headquarters, under a two-year rolling broadens our role to include management contract valued at 3.5m per annum.
services focused on enhancing efficiencies, quality assurance services Mid Suffolk and Babergh District Councils and testing of mail processing equipment.
awarded us a contract in a groundbreaking shared services The US Office of Personnel Management partnership for waste and recycling awarded Serco two indefinite-delivery services.
The contract is for up to 21 indefinite-quantity IDIQ contracts under years and is valued at around 80m.
the Training Management Assistance Mid Sussex District Council also program.
These programs assist appointed us to provide refuse, recycling government agencies in developing and street cleaning services.
The contract workforce planning and management is for up to 21 years and is valued at strategies, e-learning and other training around 74m.
The contracts give Serco the opportunity to compete for a share of $500m of work over the next five years.
Business review Operating performance Civil Government Serco Group plc 19 Education and Childrens Services Our consulting expertise resulted in our Stoke-on-Trent City Council awarded us a selection for a number of important contract to transform their children's frameworks in 2007.
We were one of ten services.
The contract is valued at 5m firms chosen to provide consultancy to over three years, with the potential for UK government departments looking to substantial growth.
The contract is to lead undertake transformational projects as and manage all the councils services for part of the four-year, 1.5bn Catalist education and childrens social care.
Serco was one of only two suppliers included in all five categories of Consulting the Metropolitan Polices four-year, 200m Over the past year we have been building Development Services framework.
our consulting business with a focus on We were one of ten suppliers selected for supporting our clients in the transformation the Ministry of Defences MoD four-year, of their businesses.
Serco has many years 100m Catalogue framework, the main of experience in the delivery of public route for the MoD to acquire consultancy services across a broad range of sectors services.
We also qualified as one of only and we are now applying this experience four providers of project and programme through three key parts of our management resources to the transformation proposition policy and Department for Environment, Food and strategy advice on transformation, the Rural Affairs.
The potential value of the design and implementation of solutions, framework to the qualified suppliers is and ensuring that change is sustainable 80m over four years.
and realises benefits through the effective management of human capital.
Against this backdrop we developed the business with the acquisition of Cornwell Management Consultants plc, adding new capabilities in information and knowledge management, while increasing our capacity in project and programme management and enterprise architecture.
We also acquired ER Consultants Limited ER as part of our building of capability in the area of sustainable change.
ER brings experience and skills in leadership development and organisation design and development.
These are key issues for many organisations and the acquisition enhances our ability to help our current customers and also to target new blue chip customers in the commercial sector.
20 Serco Group plc Business review Operating performance Defence Defence Revenue in Defence increased by 11.8% to 721m, representing 26% of Group revenue 2006: 25%.
2007 was a year of strong organic growth in defence, supplemented by demand for our value-added services.
United Kingdom The MoD awarded us a contract to Revenue We had a highly successful year in manage the maintenance, repair and winning new business in the UK defence operation of the UK Armed Forces estate market, primarily in support of the Royal facilities in Gibraltar.
The contract is valued 721m Navy and Royal Air Force.
at around 50m over five years, with a further two option years and the potential 11.8% The key win in the UK was a contract for additional work.
We will also provide with the MoD to deliver marine services to military logistics, workshops and marine the Royal Navy.
The MoD selected our services support to the naval base and Some of the things we do joint venture with Denholm Shipping and other MoD operations.
2 Command control systems Infrastructure Investors I for a 15-year private finance initiative PFI contract The Naval Air Command appointed Serco Defence establishments valued at around 1bn, of which Sercos preferred bidder for a partnering contract management operating contract represents 750m.
valued at around 7m per annum.
We will Economic cost analysis This is a sizeable increase on our provide aviation, engineering and aircraft Logistics consulting previous operating contract, under which support at two Royal Naval Air Stations, Marine services we have provided marine services to the Yeovilton and Culdrose, improving the Port security Royal Navy since 1996. availability of aircraft and trained aircrew to Risk and safety management the Fleet Air Arm at a time of considerable Serco will manage, operate and maintain operational pressure.
The work will build Secure IT support a fleet of around 110 vessels, providing on the operational support we already Through-life capability management services that enable the Royal Navy to provide to the Royal Navys aircraft.
Training and personnel services put to sea.
The joint venture will also bring over 30 new vessels into service We were also awarded a contract to during the early years of the contract, provide a range of services at RAF enhancing service flexibility and Lyneham, home to the UKs tactical Air responsiveness and helping to meet the Transport force of Hercules aircraft and Royal Navys demanding operational one of the largest and busiest operational 2 requirements.
Serco chose I in 2006 to stations in the RAF.
In addition to become its strategic partner for financing providing base support, facilities 2 and investment in PFIs.
In this project, I management and logistics services, Serco will provide all the subordinated debt and will support the No 1 Air Mobility Wing, the largest proportion of the equity 49%.
Tactical Medical Wing and No 4 Force Serco retains 41% of the equity as well as Protection Wing.
This win will further day-to-day management of the joint strengthen Sercos relationships with Air venture, so as to implement the Command and key equipment successful transition of the project over manufacturers such as Rolls Royce.
The contract is for four years with three option years and is valued at around 34m over the full seven years.
Business review Operating performance Defence Serco Group plc 21 Enhancing the Royal Navys operational capacity The UK armed forces are faced with unprecedented challenges, playing their part in protecting national and international security against a background of budgetary restraint.
Increasing the effectiveness of assets and equipment makes an important contribution to their operational capacity.
Serco Denholm, a joint venture led by Serco, has been providing essential operational support to the Royal Navy for more than a decade.
Over that period, we have built a highly effective working relationship.
In December 2007, Serco Denholm Marine Services signed a new 15-year contract with the Ministry of Defence to deliver a wide range of marine services to the Royal Navy.
The contract is worth 750m to Serco, a significant increase on the previous contract, reflecting the strength of our relationship with the Royal Navy.
We are also managing more complexity for the customer.
Around 240 staff and the services of the Royal Maritime Auxiliary Service transfer to Serco from April 2008 and Serco Denholm will also bring an additional 30 vessels into service under a PFI arrangement, to add to the 110 existing vessels.
These new vessels are being procured by Serco Denholm to meet the Navy's future fleet requirements and to enhance support to trials and worldwide training.
22 Serco Group plc Business review Operating performance Defence We were awarded the Apache helicopter The US Navy selected us for the major Interim Support Arrangement contract by portion of the Sea Enterprise contract.
AgustaWestland, the prime contractor for This IDIQ contract is to provide Apache depth maintenance at engineering and installation services for Wattisham in the UK.
Depth maintenance command, control, communication, involves stripping the aircraft down and computers, intelligence and reassembling with repaired or new parts reconnaissance systems at ship, shore as necessary.
The contract is valued at and submarine locations on the West around 15m to Serco over three years.
Coast of the United States.
It has a one-year base period with four annual Serco was also awarded a multi-activity options, for a maximum term of five years support services contract for British and a potential value of around $156m.
Forces on the South Atlantic bases of A key objective is to reduce the costs of Ascension Island and the Falkland Islands.
installations by improving productivity and The contract is valued at around 20m achieving long-term efficiencies.
United States Our North American defence business won a record level of new contracts against a continued backdrop of pressure on non-combat operations.
The US Army awarded us a contract to provide cost analysis, logistics planning and supply chain consulting services, under the Logistics Civil Augmentation Program IV LOGCAP IV.
This IDIQ contract has a one-year base period with four annual options, for a five-year total period and a potential value of $225m.
The Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center SPAWAR awarded us two contracts to assist the Navy and other government agencies with anti-terrorism systems.
Under the first contract we will evaluate, integrate and install advanced anti-terrorism systems at Navy ports around the world.
This IDIQ contract has a total potential value of $64m over five years.
The second contract extends that relationship with SPAWAR to other government agencies.
The contract is valued at around $62m over three years, and could reach $115m if all five of the six-month award options are exercised.
Business review Operating performance Transport Serco Group plc 23 Transport Transport revenues grew by 4.7% to 655m, representing 23% of Group revenue 2006: 25%.
A key feature of the year was the use of our UK skills to secure international opportunities.
Light Rail Revenue Traffic Management The Dubai Government Roads and In the UK, we successfully rebid our Transport Authority RTA selected Serco contract with Transport for London to as preferred bidder to operate and maintain traffic signal control equipment 655m maintain the initial two lines of the new and provide related services.
The contract Dubai Metro, the first such system in the is for five years with the potential for a 4.7% region and an important development for further two-year extension, and is valued the city.
We will be signing the contract in at around 60m over seven years.
The contract includes will provide cover for all traffic control Some of the things we do pre-launch consultancy and planning, equipment including traffic signals, with operations and maintenance running crossings, automatic number plate Air traffic services for five years from autumn 2009 and the recognition cameras and traffic Heavy rail operations and maintenance potential for a further five-year extension.
The services cover Light rail operations and maintenance The contract is valued at more than central London and the City, including 400m over this 12.5 year period.
important transport link points for the Traffic control and transport systems 2012 Olympics.
Transport consultancy Serco will run the operations control centre, maintain rolling stock, track and Serco operates the National Traffic Control station facilities and provide train Centre NTCC on behalf of the Highways attendants and all station staff.
We were pleased that the NTCC will cover 76 kilometres of track and are achieved final completion in May 2007, predicted to carry 200m passengers per recognising the delivery of quality services year.
Ultimately, the RTA intends to and continuing innovation at this worldextend the Dubai Metro to more than 300 first facility.
We have successfully rolled kilometres, making it the worlds largest out the travel time variable messaging driverless metro system.
system, providing valuable real-time information for drivers.
During the year, we finished our contracts to operate the Manchester Metrolink and In the US, the Georgia Department of the Copenhagen Metro.
We did not renew Transportation appointed us to run the the contracts at rebid, as we continue to states Traffic Management Center.
This is actively manage our contract portfolio.
Sercos first traffic management contract in North America.
The contract is for up to four years and is valued at $12m.
Serco also won two parking-related contracts with the City of Chicago, valued at more than $10m over the next five years.
We will provide managed operations, mechanical maintenance identification, parking enforcement and revenue reporting.
24 Serco Group plc Business review Operating performance Transport Heavy Rail Air Traffic Control Northern Rail, which we operate in a joint We successfully rebid our contract to venture with NedRailways, carried nearly provide air traffic control, airside 79m passengers in 2007 and achieved a operations, engineering and strong operational performance despite meteorological services in support of the the severe floods in the summer.
Northern Department of Civil Aviation at Dubai Rail's success has led to it winning two International Airport.
The contract has a prestigious national awards: Public value of 17.5m over two years.
Transport Operator of the Year at the National Transport Awards 2007 and the We also renewed our contract at Bahrain Example of Excellence in the Rural Action International Airport, to provide air traffic category at the 2007 Business in the control, electronic engineering and Community awards.
Our other joint maintenance, project planning and venture with NedRailways Merseyrail consultancy and administrative support.
was the best performing railway in the The contract is valued at around 13m country in terms of reliability and over three years.
punctuality, surpassing its previous best performance in 2005.
Great Southern Rail, our Australian rail operation, performed well in 2007, with good growth on both The Ghan and Indian Pacific services.
The Overland service between Melbourne and Adelaide was re-launched in May 2007, since when its patronage has increased by more than 50%.
Network Rail awarded Serco two contracts during the year.
We extended our contract for infrastructure monitoring and rail grinding services.
The extension is valued at approximately 45m over two years.
Network Rail also appointed us to operate locomotives on the test routes of the European Rail Traffic Management System ERTMS piloting scheme.
ERTMS is a new signalling methodology that will ultimately be rolled out across Europe.
The contract is valued at around 5m over three years.
Business review Operating performance Transport Serco Group plc 25 Reducing congestion through enhancing driver information The growing number of road journeys puts enormous pressure upon infrastructure and capacity, resulting in frustration, lost time and consequent cost to the economy.
Road building is not a sustainable option: one solution is to allow drivers to make better use of the existing network.
Serco was selected by the Highways Agency in March 2001 to deliver and operate its National Traffic Control Centre NTCC.
The NTCC collects traffic data from thousands of roadside sensors, combined with information from hundreds of operational partners including the police, Highways Agency traffic officers, ports and airports and local highway authorities.
NTCC analyses this data and delivers real time traffic information via the Traffic England website www.
com and phone service 08700 660115 and through broadcast partners, giving motorists the information they need to plan their journeys and avoid delays, making the best use of road capacity, reducing driver stress and improving road safety.
Serco continues to increase the value of the service by exploring new ways of reaching drivers and giving them the information they need, when and where they need it most.
In 2007 we introduced new road-side signs on motorways to give drivers predicted travel times between junctions based upon real-time information.
Following a successful pilot this service has been rolled out across the network, publishing over a million messages every month.
26 26 Ser Serco Gr co Group plc oup plc Business review Operating performance Science Science Science revenues grew by 19.9% to 483m, representing 17% of Group revenue 2006: 16%.
Technology and innovation are at the heart of our offering in this market.
Our joint venture with British Nuclear Serco TAS, in partnership with Golder Revenue Group BNG and Lockheed Martin to Associates, was also awarded a 10m operate the UKs Atomic Weapons two-year contract to examine and develop Establishment AWE continued to plans to clean up contaminated land at 483m perform strongly.
The work will include upgrade programme is progressing well, assessment of the condition of the land 19.9% with the facility to house the Orion and groundwater, mathematical modelling, research project due to open on schedule development of a strategy for dealing with in March 2008.
This facility will cover both the contamination and identifying the Some of the things we do weapons research and civil science technologies and actions needed for studies such as evolving stars and superclean up.
The construction of energyMeasurement science efficient offices for up to 1,400 staff is The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority Nuclear assurance also on time and on budget.
As previously NDA appointed a consortium led by the reported, BNG is in the process of the Washington Division of the US Research establishments disposing of its shareholding in AWE and company, URS, as preferred bidder to management we hope this will be completed later this manage the UKs low-level radioactive Technical training year.
waste repository at Drigg in West Cumbria.
Serco TAS is an integrated subSerco Technical and Assurance Services contractor and will provide regulatory, Serco TAS won several contracts in the safety and environmental technical nuclear market during the year.
The ten-year A consortium led by Serco TAS was contract can be extended to up to awarded a 15m contract to provide 17 years.
specialist technical and engineering support to Magnox reactor sites over the next five years.
A range of specialist nuclear technical services will be provided, including safety case management, systems engineering, analysis of safetycritical structures and systems and technical advice on waste management.
Business review Operating performance Science Ser Serco Gr co Group plc oup plc 27 27 Ensuring the highest safety and training standards The Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE, which is responsible for the design, build, maintenance and decommissioning of the warheads for the United Kingdom's nuclear deterrent, has been central to the countrys defence for more than 50 years.
AWE is managed and operated for the Ministry of Defence by AWE Management Limited, a joint venture between Serco Group plc, Lockheed Martin Corporation and British Nuclear Group, under a contract that runs until 2025.
AWE is a complex environment where safety is the number one priority.
The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents recognises AWEs commitment to ensuring the highest standards of safety throughout its operations and has awarded it their prestigious Gold Medal, for achieving five consecutive Gold Awards for occupational health and safety.
In addition, AWE has been awarded the Sir George Earle trophy for the most outstanding performance in health and safety by a company or organisation, as well as the Astor Trophy for the best managed occupational health programme.
Essential to its continued success is the development and retention of skills across a broad spectrum.
A notable achievement in 2007 was the successful establishment of the AWE Programme Management Academy.
Along with representatives from our AWE Management Limited partners, a team of Serco consultants undertook the planning and implementation of a comprehensive suite of training programmes.
These have the goal of ensuring that there are sufficient people in the future who are qualified to successfully lead the multiple and highlycomplex AWE programmes and projects.
The Programme Management Academy will train around 1,000 staff in its first year of operation.
