SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 90 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 1.
Significant accounting policies Taxation Basis of accounting Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of freehold Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an and long leasehold properties, and in accordance with applicable UK obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less accounting standards UK GAAP.
tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the Profit and loss account inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in In accordance with the exemption allowed by section 230 of the periods different from those which they are included Companies Act 1985, the Company has not presented its own profit and in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the Cash flow revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is The Company is exempt from the requirements of Financial Reporting no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are Standard No.
recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that Tangible fixed assets they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Freehold and long leasehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided on other fixed assets to write off the cost or Share-based payments revalued amount of each asset over its estimated useful life at the Share-based payments are accounted for as described in the Group following rates: accounting policies on page 60.
Freehold buildings 1% straight-line Under FRS 15 the Company has adopted a policy of continuous revaluation of land and buildings.
Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review
