SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 68 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued The Group operates a system of regular valuations of freehold and long leasehold land and buildings across its portfolio which have included using FPD Savills and Rushton International Chartered Surveyors.
This operates on a rotational basis, with one of the five main properties reviewed each year.
The five properties are the SeverfieldReeve Structures Limited and SeverfieldReeve Projects Limited sites at Dalton Airfield Industrial Estate, the Watson Steel Structures Limited site at Lostock Lane, Bolton, the Atlas Ward Structures Limited site at Sherburn and the Fisher Engineering Limited steel storage site at Enniskillen in Northern Ireland.
To date, no material surplus over net book value has been identified, and accordingly no adjustment to revalue freehold and long leasehold land and buildings has been considered necessary.
The net book value of the Groups plant and machinery includes Nil 2006: 395,000 in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Subsidiaries The Company has investments in the following significant subsidiary undertakings.
All of the companies listed are registered in England.
SeverfieldReeve Structures Limited steel fabrication Watson Steel Structures Limited steel fabrication Rowen Structures Limited project contracting Atlas Ward Structures Limited steel fabrication Fisher Engineering Limited steel fabrication acquired 8 October 2007 Steelcraft Erection Services Limited steel erection SeverfieldReeve International Limited overseas contracts SeverfieldReeve Projects Limited project managers of building contracts The Company owns the whole of the issued share capital of the subsidiaries noted above.
Investments and interests in joint ventures On 3 February 2006 SeverfieldReeve Structures Limited entered into a 50 50 joint venture agreement with Murray Metals Group Limited to form Steel UK Limited, a company involved in steel buying activities.
To date, both parties have continued to purchase steel through the individual companies and no trade has passed through Steel UK Limited.
The share capital invested by the Group is a nominal sum of 50.
Steel UK Limited is registered in England.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review
