SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 72 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 22.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum lease Present value of payments lease payments 2007 2006 2007 2006 000 000 000 000 Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 67 66 In the second to fifth years inclusive 67 66 Less: future finance charges 1 n a Present value of lease obligations 66 66 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 66 Amount due for settlement after 12 months All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Groups obligations under finance leases were secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
Financial instruments Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
Gearing ratio The Board of Directors reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis following the taking out of borrowings in 2007.
As part of this review, it considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows: 2007 2006 000 000 Borrowings 53,504 66 Cash and cash equivalents 5,445 38,304 Net debt funds 48,059 38,238 Equity 116,829 66,225 Net debt to equity ratio 41.1% N A Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group attributable to equity holders of the parent.
There are no externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 73 23.
Financial instruments continued Categories of financial instruments Carrying value 2007 2006 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 5,445 38,304 Amounts due from construction contract customers 60,478 42,110 Financial liabilities Trade creditors 34,072 30,258 Borrowings 53,504 Finance leases 66 Derivative financial instruments 2,850 Derivative financial instruments are the only instruments valued at fair value through profit or loss, and are valued as such on initial recognition.
These relate to foreign currency forward contracts measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves matching the maturities of the contracts.
Except for derivative financial instruments, the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities are recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements and are considered to approximate their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents This comprises cash held by the Group and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
General risk management principles The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
A formal risk assessment and management framework for assessing, monitoring and managing the strategic operational and financial risks of the Group is in place to ensure appropriate risk management of its operations.
Internal control and risk management systems are embedded in the operations of the divisions.
Financial risks and management The Group has exposure to a variety of financial risks through the conduct of its operations.
Risk management is governed by the Groups operational policies, which are subject to periodic review by the Board of Directors.
Credit risk The Groups primary exposure to credit risk arises from the potential for non-payment or default from construction contract debtors.
The degree to which the Group is exposed to this credit risk depends on the individual characteristics of the contract counterparty and the nature of the project.
The Groups credit risk is also influenced by the general macroeconomic conditions.
The Group does not have any concentration risk in respect of amounts due from construction contract customers at the reporting date with them being spread across a wide range of customers.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations, it is normal practice for customers to hold retentions in respect of contracts completed.
The Group manages its exposure to credit risk through the application of its credit risk management policies which specify the minimum requirements in respect of the credit worthiness of potential customers, assessed through reports from credit agencies, and the timing and extent of progress payments in respect of contracts.
In addition, before accepting any new customer adequate credit insurance is taken out as reported in Note 18.
The Group manages the collection of retentions through its post-completion project monitoring procedures and ongoing contact with customers so as to ensure that potential issues that could lead to the non-payment of retentions are addressed as soon as they are identified.
Amounts outstanding from construction contract customers are due with reference to the payment terms for each particular contract but the majority would be receivable within four months from the end of the reporting period.
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months are disclosed in Note 17.
The Group uses four banks to spread the risk of holding significant cash balances with financial institutions.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.
The ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk rests with the Board.
The Group generates cash through its operations and aims to manage liquidity by ensuring that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stress conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Forecast and actual cash flow is continuously monitored.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 74 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 23.
Financial instruments continued Trade creditors are initially measured at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using effective interest rates, and the Directors consider this to be the case at the end of the reporting period.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 51 days 2006: 52 days, which reflects the mix of when these amounts are contractually due.
Borrowings represent the Groups revolving credit facility from the Royal Bank of Scotland and National Australia Bank jointly which provides credit support of up to 70 million at an interest rate of 0.45% above LIBOR.
These borrowings were taken out in 2007 in relation to the acquisition of Fisher Engineering Limited.
The amount borrowed is scheduled to be redrawn at a lower amount in 2008.
The revolving credit facility is available for three years ending 21 August 2010.
Borrowings outstanding at 31 December 2007 amounted to 53,504,000 2006: Nil.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in credit risks described above, in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group has entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk, and in January 2008 to interest rates.
Market risk exposures are monitored and are supplemented by sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the Groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk.
Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of currency risks by using derivative financial instruments when appropriate to hedge these risk exposures against contracted sales.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Liabilities Assets 2007 2006 2007 2006 000 000 000 000 Euro 3,751 4,181 128 Dollar 222 221 3,751 4,403 349 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group is mainly exposed to the euro.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and derivative financial instruments, being forward exchange contracts of 98.13 million Euros and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where the sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
Euro currency impact 2007 2006 000 000 Profit or loss 6,903 32 The Groups sensitivity to foreign currency has increased in 2007 due to the number of contracts undertaken primarily by Fisher Engineering Limited in Ireland, and relates principally to the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 75 23.
Financial instruments continued Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover euro currency receipts on relevant contracts.
At 31 December 2007 the Group had forward exchange contracts held for the sale of 98.13 million euros at an average exchange rate of 1.4161 euros to the pound and maturing within 12 months of the year end 2006: Nil.
Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as described under the borrowings paragraph earlier in this note.
In line with the Groups policies in January 2008 it entered into a fixed rate swap agreement for the majority of its anticipated borrowings.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 0.5% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 would decrease by 240,000 2006: increase by 192,000.
This is attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
The Groups sensitivity to interest rates has increased during the current period due to the increase in the level of borrowings in the year.
However, current indications are that the level of Group borrowings will decrease during 2008 and to nil during 2009.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
