SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 Investments that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net Key sources of estimation uncertainty realisable value.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of Cash and cash equivalents estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible and liabilities within the next financial year, are also discussed below.
to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of Revenue and margin recognition changes in value.
The Groups revenue recognition and margin recognition are central to Bank borrowings the way the Group values the work it has carried out in each financial Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds year.
These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums long-term construction contracts, which require assessments and payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted judgements to be made on recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in for in the income statement using the effective interest method and are work scopes, contract programmes and maintenance liabilities.
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are Recoverability of internally generated intangible asset not settled in the period in which they arise.
During the year, management considered the recoverability of its Trade payables internally generated intangible asset which is included in its balance sheet Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently at 2,240,000.
The project is progressing in a very satisfactory manner, measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
and customer reaction has given management assurance over their estimate of anticipated revenues from the project.
Management is very Equity instruments confident that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered in full.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds This situation will be closely monitored, and adjustments made in future received, net of direct issue costs.
periods if future market activity indicates that such adjustments are appropriate.
Share-based payment transactions Retirement benefit obligations The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments.
These sharebased payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant based on Details of the Groups defined pension scheme are set out in note 35.
The the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value scheme has been valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
determined is then expensed in the Consolidated Income Statement on a At 31 December 2007 the defined benefit obligation recognised on the straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase Groups balance sheet was 6,745,000.
The benefit obligation is calculated in equity.
The fair value of the shares is measured by use of the using a number of assumptions including increases in pension benefits, BlackScholes pricing model.
mortality rates and inflation and the future investment returns from the schemes assets.
The present value of the benefit obligations is calculated Provisions by discounting the benefit obligation using market rates on relevant AA Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a corporate bonds at the balance sheet date.
result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required The schemes assets are valued at market rates at the balance sheet date.
Provisions are measured at the directors best Effects of changes in the actuarial assumptions underlying the benefit estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the obligation, discount rates and the difference between expected and balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the actual returns on the schemes assets are classified as actuarial gains effect is material.
Derivative financial instruments Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets arising from The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to acquisitions manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, Determining whether goodwill or associated intangible assets are including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashforeign currency options.
Further details of derivative financial generating units to which these assets have been allocated.
The value in instruments are disclosed in note 23 to the financial statements.
use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised at the balance sheet date was 54,712,000 and of intangible assets in profit or loss.
No impairment adjustment has been made for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 1, management has made the following judgements Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review
