SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 57 1.
Significant accounting policies carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any Basis of accounting impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with associates in excess of the Groups interest in those associates are not International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial recognised unless, and only to the extent that, the Group has incurred statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for legal or constructive obligations on behalf of the associates.
use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair IAS Regulation.
values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in the Consolidated Income Statement in the Basis of consolidation period of acquisition.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements The Consolidated Income Statement includes the Groups share of of the Company and all subsidiaries for the financial year ended associates profit less losses while the Groups share of the net assets 31 December 2007. of the associates is shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are Goodwill included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an intangible used by the Group.
asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed eliminated on consolidation.
for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Consolidated income statement disclosure For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of In order to give an indication of the underlying earnings of the Group, the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies certain items are presented in the middle column of the Consolidated of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been Income Statement entitled Other Items.
These include: allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when amortisation of acquired intangibles: there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable fair values on unrealised losses on derivative forward contracts amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying Business combinations amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or subsequent period.
assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent profit or loss on disposal.
liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an intangible asset and for impairment at that date.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 January 1998 of initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 1,122,000 was taken directly to reserves in the year in which it arose.
combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the Such goodwill has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately in Revenue recognition the Consolidated Income Statement.
Revenue from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Investments in associates Groups accounting policy on construction contracts see below.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy rights to receive payment have been established.
decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Construction contracts The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in Profit is recognised on contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed these financial statements using the equity method of accounting unless reliably, by including in the income statement revenue and related cost as it meets the exceptions described in IAS 28.
Investments in associates are Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 58 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 contract activity progresses.
Revenue is calculated as that proportion of Taxation the total contract value which costs incurred to date bear to total The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and expected costs for that contract.
Variations in contract work, claims and deferred tax.
incentive payments are included in Revenue to the extent that there is The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable appropriate certainty that they will be accepted by the customer and can profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because be measured reliably.
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Leases computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised All other leases are classified as operating leases.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available Amounts payable under operating leases are charged to the income against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in capitalised in the balance sheet at fair value and depreciated in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The capital element of the leasing commitment is included as obligations under finance The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance leases.
The rentals payable are apportioned between interest, which sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that is charged to the income statement, and capital, which reduces the sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to outstanding obligation.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in Operating profit the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs, amortisation, is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to gains or losses arising on the fair value of foreign exchange derivative items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax contracts and after the share of results of associates but before investment is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Retirement benefit costs enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities The Group operates three defined contribution pension schemes and and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation costs of these schemes are charged to the income statement in the authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and period in which they are incurred.
In addition, Atlas Ward, acquired on 31 March 2005, has a defined Dividends benefit scheme which is now closed.
The liability in respect of this scheme Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet in which they are declared appropriately authorised and no longer at the date, less the fair value of the plan assets, together with adjustments for discretion of the Company.
Property, plant and equipment The finance cost of liabilities and expected return of assets are included within Administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are currently stated at cost in the The actuarial gain loss is charged through the Consolidated Statement balance sheet.
The Group has a policy of revaluing land and buildings of Recognised Income and Expense and is made up of the difference between when material differences arise, being the fair value at the date of the expected return on assets and those actually achieved, the difference revaluation, determined from market-based evidence by appraisal between the actuarial assumptions for liabilities and actual experience in the undertaken by professional valuers, less any subsequent accumulated period and any changes in the assumptions used in the valuations.
depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluations The pension scheme deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face are performed with sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The associated deferred tax asset is does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair recognised within non-current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
values at the balance sheet date.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 59 Any material revaluation increase arising on the revaluation of such land Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line and buildings is credited to the properties revaluation reserve, except to basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease for the same asset asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an previously recognised as an expense, in which case the increase is expense in the period in which it is incurred.
credited to the income statement to the extent of the decrease previously Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill charged.
A decrease in carrying amount arising on the revaluation of At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of such land and buildings is charged as an expense to the extent that it its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any exceeds the balance, if any, held in the properties revaluation reserve indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such relating to a previous revaluation of that asset.
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to income.
On the to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset subsequent sale or retirement of a revalued property, the attributable does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the revaluation surplus remaining in the properties revaluation reserve is Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to transferred directly to retained earnings.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment to write the asset may be impaired.
off the cost or revalued amount of each asset over its estimated useful life at the following rates: Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are Freehold buildings 1% straight-line discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Plant and machinery 10% straight-line reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 10% written down value risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have Computer equipment 20% straight-line not been adjusted.
Motor vehicles 25% written down value If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An term of the relevant lease.
impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of Intangibles the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does The Group recognises intangible assets at cost less accumulated not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had amortisation and impairment losses.
Acquired intangible assets arise as a no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating result of applying IFRS 3 which requires the separate recognition of unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as intangible assets from goodwill on all business combinations from income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued 1 January 2004. amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line over their useful revaluation increase.
economic lives as follows: Amortisation period Inventories Customer relationships 10 years Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost Brands 25 years comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and Know-how 10 years those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to Order book 18 months their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to Internally generated intangible assets research and be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the Financial instruments period in which it is incurred.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups provisions of the instrument.
development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: Trade receivables an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : Trade receivables are classified as loans and receivables, and therefore it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
