SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 57 1.
Significant accounting policies carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any Basis of accounting impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with associates in excess of the Groups interest in those associates are not International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial recognised unless, and only to the extent that, the Group has incurred statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for legal or constructive obligations on behalf of the associates.
use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair IAS Regulation.
values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in the Consolidated Income Statement in the Basis of consolidation period of acquisition.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements The Consolidated Income Statement includes the Groups share of of the Company and all subsidiaries for the financial year ended associates profit less losses while the Groups share of the net assets 31 December 2007. of the associates is shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are Goodwill included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an intangible used by the Group.
asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed eliminated on consolidation.
for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Consolidated income statement disclosure For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of In order to give an indication of the underlying earnings of the Group, the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies certain items are presented in the middle column of the Consolidated of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been Income Statement entitled Other Items.
These include: allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when amortisation of acquired intangibles: there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable fair values on unrealised losses on derivative forward contracts amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying Business combinations amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or subsequent period.
assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent profit or loss on disposal.
liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an intangible asset and for impairment at that date.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 January 1998 of initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 1,122,000 was taken directly to reserves in the year in which it arose.
combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the Such goodwill has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised immediately in Revenue recognition the Consolidated Income Statement.
Revenue from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Investments in associates Groups accounting policy on construction contracts see below.
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy rights to receive payment have been established.
decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Construction contracts The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in Profit is recognised on contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed these financial statements using the equity method of accounting unless reliably, by including in the income statement revenue and related cost as it meets the exceptions described in IAS 28.
Investments in associates are Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
