Information for Shareholders Financial calendar and results announcements You should also contact the registrar if you would like to have your Annual General Meeting dividends paid directly into your bank or building society account.
24 July 2007, at 11.00am at the National Motorcycle Museum, Coventry Road, The registrars contact details are: Bickenhill, Solihull, West Midlands B92 0EJ Telephone helpline: 0870 600 3967 E-mail: severntrent@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk Dividend payments in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, Interim dividend paid 24 January 2007 West Sussex, BN99 6DA Proposed final dividend payable 3 August 2007 Online communication Shareview, is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars and gives you access to services over the internet that enable you to check details of your The results of the group will normally be published at the following shareholding at any time.
times: Interim results for the six months to 30 September November You can also elect to receive communications from the company Preliminary results for the year to 31 March June electronically.
You will receive an e-mail notification when the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting become available on Report and accounts for the year to 31 March June our website.
You can register for both of these services at www.
Shareholder enquiries If you have a question about your shareholding in the company you Company information should contact our registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, who are responsible The companys website at www.
com provides news and for making dividend payments and updating the register of details of the companys activities, latest results, information on the shareholders, including details of changes to addresses and names.
share price and links to our businesses websites.
SGS-COC-0620 This report was printed by Beacon Press using their pureprint and alcofree environmental print technology.
All the electricity used in the production of this report was generated from renewable sources and vegetable based inks were used throughout.
Beacon Press is a CarbonNeutral company and registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
It is printed on Revive 100 Uncoated, a recycled paper containing 100% post consumer waste which is manufactured to ISO 14001 and supported by the Forest Stewardship Council.
Designed and produced by Tayburn.
Severn Trent Plc Registered office: 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU Telephone: 44 0 121 722 4000 www.
com Registered number: 2366619 Annual Review 2007 Contents Quick read Governance 1 Focused activities 22 Board of directors Group financial highlights for 2006 07 Biographical details of the directors 2 What we do 24 Summary directors report Overview and facts about our businesses 25 Summary directors remuneration report Direction Directors emoluments, pensions and service agreements 4 Chairmans statement Sir John Egan comments on Severn Trents results, 29 Summary financial statement performance, corporate responsibility and outlook 29 Independent auditors statement 6 Group Chief Executives review Strategic overview and operational performance 30 Summary consolidated income statement 8 Focus on water 32 Information for shareholders Our strategy and performance measures Financial calendar, shareholder analysis for Severn Trent Water and company information Performance review 10 Water and Sewerage Performance information for Severn Trent Water in 2006 07, KPIs and progress on its Ofwat targets for 2005-10 14 Water Technologies and Services Performance information for Water Technologies and Services and an overview of its increasing presence in growth markets 15 Corporate responsibility Overview of our corporate responsibility programme, business ethics, environmental impacts and health and safety 17 Summary financial review Overview of Severn Trents results, financial position and cash flows All written or verbal forward looking statements, made in this document Cautionary statement or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn Trent or any This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect other member of the group or persons acting on their behalf are to Severn Trents financial condition, results of operations and business expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives with respect to these Severn Trent does not intend to update these forward looking statements.
This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not soliciting an offer Forward looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities in any jurisdiction.
their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred in the United States due, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration targets, goal or estimates.
By their very nature forward looking requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933 as amended.
statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Severn Trent Plc There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and Severn Trent Plc is a public limited company listed on developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the London Stock Exchange and registered in England these forward looking statements.
These factors include, but are not and Wales with company number 2366619.
This is limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the group the Annual Review for the year ended 31 March 2007. operates: changes in the regulatory and competition frameworks in which the group operates: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or More information on Severn Trent Plc can be found on which affect the group: and changes in interest and exchange rates.
com Quick Read special dividend of 575 million paid to shareholders in October 2006 improved balance sheet efficiency following payment of special dividend no dilution of dividend per share as a result of Biffa demerger sale of non core activities, including US Laboratories, Aquafin and Property overhead costs to fall by 6-10 million over next 12 months gearing to move to 60% of Regulated Capital Value dividends to increase by 3% above inflation to 2010 Group turnover m Group profit before tax m 2007 1,480.2 2007 325.5 2006 1,455.3 2006 177.8 1.7% 83.1% Group profit m Earnings per share pence 2007 252.0 2007 82.4 230.2 71.4 2006 2006 before tax, exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value from continuing operations before exceptional items, adjustments see income statement IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred tax 9.5% 15.4% Final dividend pence Total shareholder return 250 225 2007 38.68 200 175 2006 31.97 150 125 100 21.0% 75 50 25 0 31-03-02 31-03-03 31-03-04 31-03-05 31-03-06 31-03-07 Severn Trent Plc FTSE 100 Index This graph shows the value at 31 March 2007, of 100 invested in Severn Trent on 31 March 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Severn Trent 1 Value What we do Severn Trent Plc is a FTSE 100 group focused on water.
It serves over 3.7 million household and business customers in England and Group turnover Wales and provides water 1,480.2m and waste water solutions 8,372 employees in the UK and overseas.
The water industry in England and Wales invests more than 3 billion a year and employs over 27,000 people.
There are ten water and sewerage companies in England and Wales and sixteen water supply companies.
Severn Trent Plc is the second largest water company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Coverage Severn Trent Waters region stretches from mid Wales to Rutland and from the Bristol Channel to the Humber.
We deliver nearly 2 billion litres of water a day to homes and businesses through 46,000 km of pipes.
A further 54,000 km of sewers take waste water away to over 1,000 sewage works.
The regulatory framework Ofwat sets annual price limits for each water company.
The current price limits were set in 2004 for the period 2005-10 the AMP4 period.
Each water company has to submit an annual return the June Return to Ofwat covering its activities.
This is the primary source of regulatory information and enables Ofwat to monitor and compare the performance of the companies.
Water quality in England and Wales is regulated by the Drinking Water Inspectorate: river pollution and flooding is regulated by the Environment Agency.
2 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Quick Read Turnover 1218.1m 80.3% of group turnover 5,289 employees Severn Trent Water provides high quality water and sewerage services to over 3.7 million household and business customers, in England and mid Wales.
Key strengths lower tariff levels compared to other water companies drinking water and waste water quality significantly above average strong management team with clear and focused strategy sustained commitment to corporate responsibility For further information visit www.
co. uk Turnover 288.9m 19.0% of group turnover 2,984 employees Water Technologies and Services is one of the worlds leading suppliers of water and waste water treatment solutions.
Headquartered in the US, it has a growing presence in the Middle East, Europe and Asia.
It has three main businesses: Water Purification, Operating Services and Analytical Services.
Key strengths strong brand recognition market leadership in disinfection, filtration and arsenic removal all growing markets continually expanding product and technology base good track record of organic growth and cost control For further information visit www.
com Severn Trent 3 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report on a year of significant restructuring for the Severn Trent group of companies which allows us to implement our focus on water business strategy.
In June 2006 the board announced its intention to restructure Severn Trent.
Biffa Plc was successfully demerged on 9 October 2006, the sale of Severn Trent Property was completed on 6 November 2006 and the sale of US Laboratories was concluded at the end of December 2006.
In addition, group balance sheet efficiency has been improved by Sir John Egan the payment on 20 October 2006 of a 575 million special dividend Chairman to shareholders.
As previously announced, the board intends to maintain group debt at I am pleased to report on a year of significant around the target 60% of regulated capital value and to continue to restructuring for the Severn Trent group increase dividends by 3% above the rate of inflation at least up to 2010, of companies which allows us to implement the remainder of the regulatory review period.
our focus on water business strategy.
The current market capitalisation of the smaller and focused Severn Trent at 3.5 billion is greater than it was at the end of 2004.
Shareholders have received a demerged Biffa worth 1.1 billion and have received a special dividend of 575 million.
Severn Trent Waters customers top priority is the safety and reliability of their drinking water and we have a strong track record on this.
We have consistently achieved 99.9% compliance with water quality standards since 1997, which represents one of the best compliance records in our industry.
Over and above these basic requirements, management is developing detailed plans for fundamental improvements across all areas of the business as outlined in the review by our Group Chief Executive, Colin Matthews.
Group results Overall, Severn Trent has delivered a positive performance in 2006 07, with group profit from continuing operations before tax, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and exceptional items at 252 million and group profit from continuing operations before tax was 325.5 million, an increase of 83.1%.
In line with our declared policy, the board is proposing a final dividend of 38.68 pence 31.97 pence to be paid on 3 August 2007.
This would give a total dividend for the year, excluding the special dividend paid on 20 October 2006, of 61.45 pence per ordinary share, an increase of 20.2%.
Corporate responsibility When I was invited to join the Severn Trent Plc board and became its Chairman I did not know the full extent of the challenges which the board and new incoming management team were to uncover and the immense commitment of time and energy which has been needed to manage these issues.
There is no point in dwelling unduly on the 2000 to 2004 era to apportion blame or responsibility as this does not help customers or shareholders.
There is, however, every point in me stating here on behalf of the board and management team that we have already accepted the responsibility for making things right.
I believe that you will see from the considerable work outlined in this annual review what we have achieved so far and the considerable work that we are determined still to do.
We are waiting to learn from Ofwat and the Serious Fraud Office the conclusion of investigations into reporting irregularities made to Ofwat by Severn Trent Water.
4 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Direction We are continuing to co-operate fully to restore confidence in Severn It is expected that the consideration of the two roles into one leading to Trent Water going forward and we acknowledge that further amends may the appointment of Mr Wray as Chief Executive and the retirement of be made to customers, depending on the outcome of the investigations.
Mr Matthews from the board and the company will take place around the end of 2007.
In response to Ofwats interim report of March 2006 concerning allegations of false reporting made against Severn Trent Water in 2004, Martin Bettington, Managing Director of Biffa Plc, stood down from we have already credited customer accounts and altered bills Severn Trent Plc when Biffa was demerged in October.
I thank him for appropriately for subsequent years.
his tremendous contribution to Severn Trent in helping to grow Biffa to the point where it is now an independent FTSE 250 company valued at We have taken and will continue to take, all actions we think appropriate more than 1 billion.
to ensure the maintenance of both high ethical and professional standards and resilient and effective controls throughout our companies.
Marisa Cassoni stood down from the board in October after 5 years as a non-executive director.
I thank her for her contribution, particularly her Our new strategy on corporate responsibility CR is to support the new membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
management teams drive for excellence by achieving high standards on a range of CR issues.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta stood down from the board in December 2006 on completion of the sale of the US Laboratories, our US analytical Those issues include: climate change: the local environment: engagement environmental testing firm, to TestAmerica Holdings.
As President and with local communities: health and safety: business ethics, diversity and CEO of Severn Trent Laboratories, she made a significant contribution to investing in people.
Further details of our CR strategy, values and action Severn Trent during her 11 years with the company and the last two plans are set out on the Severn Trent website www.
years on the board during a period of significant change.
To be effective, a companys CR strategy must be fully integrated with its As part of our strategy of focusing on water, all the current executive core business planning.
The strategic and organisational change that and non-executive directors of Severn Trent Plc now hold similar took place within Severn Trent in 2006 07 has reinforced this.
positions on the board of Severn Trent Water Limited.
Since March As described later in this Annual Review, Severn Trent Water has 2007 the boards of directors of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent determined 20 critical success factors and adopted 20 KPIs, by which it Water Limited have been identical.
will measure performance and set targets.
Many of these indicators link We have carried out rigorous board effectiveness reviews with the help directly to Severn Trent Waters CR strategy for example, the KPIs on of independent consultants, which have generated a number of actions health and safety, leakage, net energy use, pollution incidents and to secure improvements to board performance.
This ensures that CR is entrenched at the very core of Severn Trents activities.
I would also like to pay a special tribute to our committed staff whose performance in a year of exceptional challenge and change has been In addition, Severn Trents Corporate Responsibility Committee, a board outstanding, ensuring we continue to achieve our business goals.
committee, has introduced a more structured approach to reviewing all areas of our CR performance.
Investment proposition Severn Trent is a high quality business whose investment programme Take climate change for example.
This has risen up the political and drives strong growth prospects.
The management team has a clear and public agenda in 2006 07.
Severn Trent Water has focused strategy and is engaged in the single minded pursuit of higher been engaged in planning for the changing climate for a number of standards as the means to achieve both higher levels of customer years.
We have built a leading reputation in this area with key satisfaction and sustained strong financial returns to shareholders.
stakeholders such as the Carbon Trust.
Outlook Severn Trent Waters work on climate change focuses on two main The outlook for the coming year is one of significant improvement, with aspects: mitigating our impact on climate change and adapting to it.
In our plans indicating that we will meet the Ofwat determination for turn, mitigation has two main aspects: energy efficiency initiatives and operating costs in 2007 08.
This improvement is driven by the fall in in-house renewable energy production, primarily biogas combined heat energy prices with prices now fixed for 2007 08, our total energy costs and power CHP.
The effects of our work in both these areas are will be around 17 million lower than 2006 07, and the delivery of reflected in our KPI on net energy use.
efficiency savings of 5 million through the implementation of our Board, management and staff improvement plans.
The board of Severn Trent Plc continually reviews its management plans Our plans encompass the medium and longer term, in some cases to ensure orderly succession and continuity of leadership.
extending beyond the end of the current AMP4 period.
Delivering After a year of great strategic change, Chief Executive Colin Matthews is sustained improvement will result in cost efficiencies being realised, reshaping the group to focus on water aided by Tony Wray, Managing but will necessitate investment to succeed.
Director of Severn Trent Water, who is concentrating on improving With the exception of any unforeseen variation in commodity prices Severn Trent Water day to day operations.
As the priority switches more principally energy, we expect that the achievement of our plans and more to implementing the improvement plans announced by will enable us to deliver around 30 million of cost efficiencies over Mr Matthews, the two roles will combine.
the last two years of the AMP4 period, which represents around 3% The board therefore wishes to provide clarity and confidence to annual outperformance against the Ofwat determination for operating customers, employees and shareholders that there will be a smooth costs, without affecting our ability to deliver the 6% efficiency on the leadership transition in due course from Mr Matthews to Mr Wray capital programme.
particularly now that detailed preparations are underway to achieve an appropriate regulatory settlement for 2010 to 2015.
Severn Trent 5 Group Chief Executives review Introduction We believe that to satisfy our customers and be cost effective we must raise professional standards across the entire business.
Other industries have demonstrated that higher quality and continuous improvement leads to lower costs.
There is every reason why Severn Trent in particular and the water industry in general, can do the same.
This is the best, probably the only way, to satisfy customers, regulators, employees and shareholders.
Colin Matthews Group Chief Safety is a prime example of the principle we are pursuing.
Our Executive performance improved in the year, which is welcome, but we can make more progress.
The skills and attention to detail which achieve higher The successful transformation of the group standards of safety are the same as those we need to improve our into a focused water company has enabled environmental impact.
the senior executive team to devote a Moreover, as we achieve higher safety standards our operations will substantial amount of its time to operational become more cost effective.
There is no trade off between higher standards and profits they are closely aligned.
improvement in our core water business.
Operational improvement With the demerger of Biffa and the sale of the US Laboratories completed by the end of 2006, the groups senior executive team has concentrated on operational improvement.
The group already has clear strengths for example, Severn Trent Waters consistent attainment of high water quality standards.
In order to satisfy our customers and deliver continuing growth for shareholders, we need to improve continuously in all areas.
Therefore, in 2006 07 we examined every aspect of Severn Trent Waters current performance.
We benchmarked it against companies in the water and sewerage sector and also in other sectors.
We identified major opportunities for improvement and we drew up detailed action plans for achieving those improvements.
We have identified 20 critical success factors against which we will measure our performance and progress.
We have chosen these with great care, because they represent what we believe are the key concerns for customers, regulators, employees and shareholders.
These 20 factors will be represented by 20 KPIs.
In all but two cases, we have defined our actual performance based on our benchmarking exercise and we propose to use these as a basis for assessing our performance going forward.
For each indicator, we will set ourselves ambitious targets for the coming years, and have drawn up action plans for achieving them.
Some improvements will be effected relatively quickly: others are longer term, going beyond the current AMP4 period.
We have completed the integration of the head office and Severn Trent Water teams and now have one executive team focused on our core water activities.
As a result of this integration, we expect to reduce our recurring overhead costs by between 6 million and 10 million over the coming 12 months.
Over the next five years, we expect staffing levels permanent and agency in Severn Trent Water to be reduced by around 600 posts.
Our plans indicate around 130 of this total being achieved in the financial year 2007 08.
We expect to incur around 24 million of restructuring costs over the remaining three years of the AMP4 period, with around 8 million being incurred in 2007 08.
6 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Direction We have changed the divisional structure.
In place of our previous On customer service too, I am pleased to report good progress.
We functional structure, which had distinct teams working on planning, recruited and trained more staff and fixed problems with our IT billing engineering and operations, we have created integrated teams, one system.
Again, by the end of this year, this work was showing focused on clean water, one focused on waste water and one focused encouraging results.
In the last quarter of the financial year, we were on customer relations.
once again approaching the levels of service that our customers and regulators expect from us.
Like the integration of Plc and Water teams, this new structure will raise standards and drive greater efficiency.
It also aligns the organisation Water Technologies and Services with the processes that matter to our customers.
This business now comprises our Water Purification, Operating Services and UK Laboratories businesses.
It produced good results in 2006 07.
In the following pages of this review, we describe those KPIs and our current position on them.
In future years, we will continue to measure We made a number of disposals in the 2006 07 financial year, and one and report progress against the targets for each indicator.
acquisition following the year end.
We sold our stake in Aquafin NV to the Flemish government for 29.6 million.
We also sold our Pipeline Safety Products and Services assets to ADS LLC and we sold our Aztec At Severn Trent health and safety is vitally important to us as a instrumentation product line to ABB Limited.
In 2006 07 ex Biffa, Property and US laboratories our acquired the assets of United Kingdom based Quay Technologies health and safety performance was 24% better than the previous year: Limited for 1.9 million plus potential additional consideration of up there were 7.1 RIDDOR incidents per 1,000 employees, compared to to 5.1 million tied to future earnings.
We reached our target for the year, but the figures are manufactures a proprietary ultraviolet technology for use in water still too high.
We aim to improve continuously in this area.
We devote huge attention to health and safety for two reasons.
It is These transactions enable us to concentrate on our core strengths, and vitally important at a very personal level, because every safety incident on higher margin and higher growth areas.
We have a twofold strategy and every day lost has a human impact.
But it is also critical at for achieving organic growth in these areas.
First, we are expanding our business level.
The skills and attention to detail that achieve higher existing technologies into new geographical markets and secondly, we safety standards are the same as those that achieve higher operational are taking new technologies into our existing markets.
and environmental standards and productivity.
Outlook Therefore, as our operations achieve higher safety standards, they will In 2007 08 we expect to make good progress in Severn Trent Water also achieve greater operational efficiency.
Far from trading off higher on the AMP4 contract and on our own improvement plans.
We have safety standards against profit goals, we pursue both together.
demanding targets in our capital programme, in water and waste Our stakeholders priorities quality, in customer service and in other areas.
We intend to achieve I have said that the KPIs represent the key concerns for our stakeholders.
those targets cost effectively, providing value for our shareholders.
In 2006 07 two concerns in particular have dominated our relations We also have to invest to meet longer term targets: the requirements with many stakeholders: leakage and customer service.
of the Water Framework Directive: the challenges of adapting to climate Our leakage increased in the prior year 2005 06.
As we announced change and reducing our own carbon footprint.
in this last year, 2006 07, we devoted greater resources to leakage The investment in reaching those targets, in process improvements and management.
We employed more people, invested in new leak in higher standards will go hand in hand with operational efficiency and detection technology, fixed 37,000 leaks, 8,000 more than the previous improvement.
So as we implement those investments for the AMP4 year and invested almost 20 million more than the previous year.
This period and beyond, we are confident they will lead to higher levels of effort has reduced our leakage this year but it was not until the month customer satisfaction as well as strong financial performance.
of March 2007 that we attained a monthly level of leakage commensurate with our Ofwat annual target.
Therefore, notwithstanding The provision of water and waste water services requires operational this reduction, we believe that we will not attain the annual average and investment planning over the long term.
We are working with target level of leakage.
internal experts and external stakeholders to identify and understand the key challenges we face over the next 25 years, ranging from obvious We have kept Ofwat fully informed of our progress and we are in the ones like climate change and carbon footprinting, to more industry process of finalising and verifying our leakage data for submission in specific ones like separation of surface water or catchment degradation our annual June Return, which will be submitted in a few weeks.
In due and the impact they could have on our assets and their ability to course we will be discussing with Ofwat our ongoing plans and deliver the service customers expect.
This work will establish the commitments to maintain our progress in reducing leakage.
context for our short and medium term planning processes and also Reducing leakage will remain a priority in 2007 08 and we are inform our Strategic Direction statement for Ofwat by the end of this determined to maintain the good progress we have made in the second calendar year.
We will continually update this long term planning half of 2006 07.
We are in a good position going into this new year.
Severn Trent 7 Our strategy Radical plans for improvement Our strategy takes into account the needs of Over and beyond these basic requirements, management is fully many different stakeholders.
Our plans for engaged in implementing plans for fundamental improvement across higher standards will help us satisfy the all areas of the business.
The successful execution of these improvement activities will radically change our business over a period expectations of all the different groups.
example, greater operational efficiency will help We have already effected organisational improvements.
In addition to us keep charges to customers low, meet our the integration of the head office and Severn Trent Water Executive regulators standards and targets, create a safe teams we have changed the divisional structure in Severn Trent Water.
and motivating environment for our employees, In place of our previous functional structure, which had distinct teams working on planning, engineering and operations, we have created and produce good returns for shareholders.
integrated teams, one focused on clean water, one focused on waste water and one focused on customer relations.
This new structure is Our goal is to have highest standards, lowest designed to raise standards and drive greater efficiency.
It also aligns charges and great people.
Phase one of the organisation with the processes that matter to our customers.
achieving that goal was to restructure the group During 2006 07 we examined every aspect of Severn Trent Waters so we could focus on water.
With that done, current performance.
We benchmarked it against companies in the we have moved into phase two the drive to water and sewerage sector, and also in other sectors.
The benchmarking exercise was detailed and thorough.
We used a range of publicly achieve higher standards and continuous available and internally generated data to identify the population that improvement in all we do.
we should compare ourselves to.
This process involved a number of judgements being exercised to ensure that we used appropriately comparable data points for each measure.
We have chosen these indicators with great care, because they represent what we believe are Higher Continuous Greater the key concerns for our customers, regulators, employees and standards improvement efficiency shareholders.
Two KPIs are new first time job resolution and capital process quality and we need time to assess our current performance and define our objectives.
For all other KPIs, we have shown where our starting point is on a relative scale based on the results of our benchmarking exercise.
For each indicator, we have set ourselves ambitious targets for the coming years and drawn up action plans for achieving them.
Some improvements will be effected relatively quickly and easily: others are longer term, going beyond the current AMP4 period.
The table on the next page sets out our actual performance for the period under review.
Based on our benchmarking exercise, our performance is shown in one of three categories, of what we consider to be lower quartile performance, upper quartile performance or median representing 2nd and 3rd quartile performance.
8 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Direction Key performance indicators Key area Objective Basis Measure Performance Lower quartile Median Upper quartile 1 Employee Provide a safe working environment MAT Lost time incidents per 100,000 hrs worked 0.50 Annual 2 Develop a confident and productive workforce Employee motivation 76% Survey 3,4 Customer Provide a high quality product MAA Water quality mean zonal compliance 99.98% 3 Quality interaction with the customer MAT Customer written complaints per 1,000 properties 19.06 5 MAT First time call resolution for billing % 80% 3 MAT Unplanned interruptions per 1,000 properties 6.95 3,6 Provide a high standard of operational service Properties at risk of low pressure per 1,000 properties 0.09 7 First time job resolution To be determined 5,8 Development of a sustainable service Performance against regulatory obligations 26% 3,9 Financial Asset base enhancement MAT Capex gross vs final determination 2.7% 7 Capital process quality To be determined 6,9 Manage trade debt Debtor days 37.5 9 Management of cost base MAT Opex vs final determination m 479.1 10 MAT Cost to serve per property 226.93 3,4 Environment Minimise environmental impact MAT Pollution incidents per 1,000 properties 0.08 3 MAT Sewer flooding other causes per 1,000 properties 0.16 3 MAT Sewage treatment works breach of consents 0.00% 5,6 Optimise use of resources MAA Raw water storage 90% 5 MAT Net energy use Kwh Ml 618 11 Leakage Ml d current DMA 446 Notes: 5 Actual performance based on internal data.
All measures are for the period to 31 March 2007, except as stated.
MAT Moving Annual total 7 Measure and relative performance to be determined.
MAA Moving Annual Average 8 Measure for quarter ended 31 March 2007.
1 Actual performance across all employees and agency staff.
9 Actual performance based on audited UK GAAP financial statements for the year 2 Performance based on annual all employee survey and quarterly survey of 10% of ended 31 March 2007. permanent employees.
10 Actual performance based on audited UK GAAP financial statements and 3 As reported in June Return to Ofwat.
Performance figures are provisional at this regulatory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007. stage as the June Return will be submitted to Ofwat on 15 June 2007.
11 DMA leakage performance measured monthly.
Month of March 2007 DMA 4 Measure for calendar year to 31 December 2006. performance disclosed in table above.
Annual measure is MLE leakage the calculation of which has not been completed as at 5 June 2007.
For a number of KPIs, we have only commenced capturing the data It is not statistically realistic to expect any company to be at the top and measuring our performance during the current financial year and of every single league table, but nevertheless, we aim to achieve upper therefore corresponding amounts for the previous financial year are quartile performance over the next 3 to 5 years.
Of course, the goal posts will move, as companies in our sector or For others, the corresponding amounts are available and these are as elsewhere redefine what upper quartile means, so we expect our target follows: to move with it.
Water quality 99.95% We will report on these measures in future results announcements.
Customer written complaints 10.04 Unplanned interruptions 4.5 Properties at risk of low pressure 0.10 Capex vs. final determination 6% Debtor days 31.76 Opex vs. final determination 446.5m Cost to serve per property 219.56 Pollution incidents 0.11 Sewer flooding incidents 0.14 Sewage treatment works breach of consents 0.31% Severn Trent 9 Performance review Performance 2007 2006 m m Turnover 1,218.1 1,150.9 Profit 413.0 400.4 Before interest, tax and exceptional items Tony Wray Managing Director Turnover in Water and Sewerage Severn Trent Water increased by 5.8% in 2006 07, to 1,218.1 million.
Sales prices increased Financial performance by 6.58% including inflation from Turnover in Water and Sewerage increased by 5.8% in 2006 07, to 1 April 2006.
The price rise represented 1,218.1 million.
Sales prices increased by 6.58% including inflation the 7.23% increase allowed by Ofwat, from 1 April 2006.
The price rise represented the 7.23% increase less a 0.65% voluntary abatement of K, allowed by Ofwat, less a 0.65% voluntary abatement of K, previously previously announced in 2005 06. announced in 2005 06.
Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items PBIT was up by 3.1% Profit before interest, tax and exceptional on the previous year, to 413.0 million.
A number of factors impacted items PBIT was up by 3.1% on the PBIT.
They included increased energy costs of 23.5 million caused by previous year, to 413.0 million as the rising prices: other increases net of efficiencies in our cost base of higher turnover was partially offset by 17.4 million: increase in infrastructure renewals expenditure of 3.6 cost increases described opposite.
million and an increase in depreciation charges of 10.1 million Health and safety RIDDORS reflecting the growing asset base.
per 1,000 employees The KPIs covered in the Group Chief Executives review are referred to here to provide further detail on their use in driving our performance improvements.
2007 7.1 Our asset base During the financial year, we invested 103 million 98 million net of 2006 9.3 grants received in maintaining our infrastructure network.
Capital expenditure, excluding spending on infrastructure maintenance, was 399 million.
Gross capital expenditure including infrastructure Water quality % maintenance expenditure was 502 million.
One KPI, capex gross vs final determination, measures our 2006 99.98 performances on managing the financial aspects of the delivery of our investment programme.
This measures the percentage variants between our capital expenditure and Ofwats final determination for AMP4.
This 2005 99.95 assesses one aspect of performance against our objective of delivering services to our customers at the lowest costs.
Other KPIs most notably 2004 99.96 the capital process quality measure will assess our delivery of high quality services.
Adjusting for minor timing differences and modifications to the AMP4 capital programme notified to Ofwat through the change control process, we are on track to deliver the programme over the AMP4 period.
We continue to be in line to achieve around 6% efficiencies compared to Ofwats Final Determination for AMP4.
Our cost base We recognise that managing our operating costs is a key component in our success.
We continued the work started in 2005 06, including process improvements leading to: reducing employee number and removing management layers.
Two KPIs measure our performance on managing costs, the first measures the variance between our latest formal forecast of operating costs and Ofwats final determination for AMP4.
The second indicator is the total cost including operating costs, depreciation, infrastructure renewals and third party costs associated with serving each customer property.
10 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Performance review Meeting our customers expectations In June 2006, Ofwat issued a notice under S22A 4 of the Water Our customers top priority is the safety and reliability of their drinking Industry Act, stating its intention to fine Severn Trent Water for failure to water supply and we have a strong track record on this.
We have meet customer services standards under the Guaranteed Standards consistently achieved 99.9% compliance with water quality standards Scheme GSS for water companies.
The notice covered performance set by the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI since 1997, which standards that had occurred since June 2005.
In addition, we are still represents one of the best compliance records in our industry.
working and fully co-operating with Ofwat and Ernst & Young LLP on their independent investigations into customer service performance and Water companies and regulators measure water quality in a number of misreporting which includes performance prior to June 2005.
Our water quality KPI is based on mean zonal compliance, an the conclusions of those investigations and details of the financial overall measure used by the DWI.
The DWIs performance tables for penalties that will be imposed on us.
In June 2006 Ofwat also issued a the 2006 calendar year showed we achieved 99.98% mean zonal notice under section 203 of the Water Industry Act requiring further compliance.
This is an improvement on our previous years performance.
information to be provided about the misreporting of data and our During 2006 07 we delivered on a number of programmes designed to performance against DG standards and the GSS scheme.
Data for these maintain and improve water quality.
They included nitrate reduction areas has been provided to Ofwat going back as far as 1995 and we schemes and mains cleaning programmes.
We are continuing to have answered their detailed questions.
Our final response was develop drinking water safety plans for our treatment works, and our submitted on 31 January 2007.
We anticipate that Ofwat will respond investment programme for water quality in 2007 08 includes further with a further S22A notice of intention to impose a penalty for mains cleaning, nitrate reduction schemes and lead removal schemes.
misreporting of data since June 2005.
For water supply we use Ofwats DG2 and DG3 measures on risk of low In the meantime, we have done much to improve current customer pressure and unplanned interruptions to supply as our KPIs.
Many of the customer service failures of 2005 06 DG3 definition around 36,100 properties experienced unplanned were due to the introduction of a major new IT system TARGET for interruptions to service, compared to around 15,200 in 2005 06. billing customers.
When introducing that system, we underestimated This represents 1.07% of the properties connected to our network, the amount of training required to transfer our contact centre operators compared to 0.45% in 2005 06.
We have put in place an action plan to the new system.
We also underestimated the extent to which any to improve performance.
major new IT system is prone to problems.
We continued our performance on pressure in 2006 07, with 314 During the second half of 2005 06 and the start of 2006 07, these properties across our entire region at risk of experiencing poor pressure problems were increasingly apparent to us, to our customers and to at year end.
This represents less than 0.01% of the properties we serve.
In July 2006 and March 2007 the Consumer Council for Water CCW issued reports showing an increase in complaints received about The flooding of a home or property with raw sewage, is viewed by most us.
In 2006 07 we began work on an action plan to fix IT problems, to people as one of the most unpleasant problems our customers may recruit 70 additional staff in our billing division and to extend the endure.
Overall, for the first two years of the AMP4 programme, we have training given to contact centre operators.
been ahead of our Ofwat targets in this area.
We will continue working to achieve a net reduction year on year in the number of properties at The result of that work is steady improvement.
Customer service risk of flooding from sewers.
performance in the first eight months of 2006 07 remained unsatisfactory, while figures for the final four months show improvement.
In terms of the number of actual sewer flooding incidents, our 2006 07 figures are slightly up on those for 2005 06.
Changes in weather For customer service performance, the first KPI is written customer patterns, with increased numbers of storms, have been one of the complaints per 1,000 properties.
This is a new measure for 2006 07. contributing factors to increases in flooding.
In previous years we have tracked DG7, a measure of the response to written complaints.
DG7 performance in 2006 07 was 99.76% Our KPI on sewer flooding aims to reduce the number of incidents such compared with 88.7% in 2005 06.
Against the new measure, our as blockages and sewer collapses over the next five years.
The two main quarter three performance was 25.9 complaints per 1,000 properties, routes will be the completion of the schemes already underway such as recovering to 17.5 in the last quarter, giving a performance in the year the 14 million scheme to alternate flooding in Kenilworth and routine of 19.06. sewer cleansing programmes.
Our second KPI on customer service is first time call resolution for Interacting with customers billing contact, which shows the proportion of calls resolved at that In addition to receiving excellent operational services from us, our point.
As well as giving the best standard of service to customers, firstcustomers expect to interact with us in a satisfactory way.
It is already time call resolution is also the most cost effective option for us.
This is well documented that we have not reached high enough customer again a new measure and whilst we have calculated performance for service standards in recent years.
2006 07 at 80%, this measure was not tracked in management reports during the course of the year.
Severn Trent 11 Performance review Water and Sewerage continued Interaction with customers is not just about how we perform in terms of It takes into consideration aspects like the condition and deterioration of specific figures and measures.
It is also about fitting in with different a companys above ground and below ground water and sewerage customers ways of life and giving them flexibility in how they contact assets.
The most recent Ofwat assessment shows that we have stable us.
So, in 2006 07 we redeveloped our website www.
co. uk in serviceability across our asset base.
order to give customers self service options for dealing with us.
Improving the delivery of our capital programme Transactions like requesting a meter or telling us about a change of We will aim to improve continuously the delivery of our Capital address can now be done online 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 24 7, programme.
We are in the process of developing a KPI that will meaure whereas previously customers had to telephone our contact centre.
the quality of our Capex delivery.
The other main area of customer interaction relates to our operational The AMP4 contract for 2005-10 includes a capital investment water and waste water services.
We completed a reorganisation of this programme of approximately 2.7 billion.
This includes: process in 2006 07 with the closure of our two 24 7 regional operational management centres.
We established a new 24 7 customer more than 400 million on maintaining water supplies operations service centre at Coventry in the heart of our operational 150 million on improving drinking water quality area.
All customer contacts related to water and waste water matters are around 850 million on maintaining and improving river quality now handled alongside, and as part of, our operational management more than 350 million improving sewers and dealing with sewer capability.
This enables us to diagnose operational failures more flooding, and effectively and promptly.
more than 260 million to reduce leakage We are encouraged that in the first six month period since establishing In the two years to date we have mobilised 2,852 projects of which the new centre October 2006 to March 2007 we have improved by 1,616 have been completed.
We have invested just short of 200m on 13% to 72% the number of customers who, through our service our Water Production and Distribution service with the focus on delivery survey, have told us we have met or exceeded their improving levels of service to customers, upgrading our treatment works expectations.
We are confident we can make further sustainable and distribution network.
We have invested over 250m on sewerage improvements to service on operational customer service in 2007 08. services, with a focus on repairing our aging sewers, maintaining and upgrading our sewage treatment works to meet tighter quality standard Our New Connections department manage, from application to delivery, and we are exploring ways of exploiting our by products to generate the connection of customers to water and waste water services.
In addition we have invested 50m on our support services 2006 07 we have worked closely with developers and customers to to improve customer service and business services.
understand how we can improve our service to them, making interaction with us easier.
Consequently, we have changed our This year capital expenditure, net of grants and contributions, excluding organisation design, introduced new web based applications and spending on infrastructure maintenance of 98 million, was 365 improved our performance on water service connections completed million for the year.
Adjusting for the changes to the programme, to be within 21 working days from 45% to 81%.
We are aiming to build on agreed with Ofwat through the change control process, and for timing these improvements through 2007 08. differences, we are on track to deliver approximately 6% efficiencies over and above the determination.
This was largely driven by the use We also have customers whom on receipt of a bill either cannot or will of better technologies, better designs and greater efficiencies.
This directly impacts our trade debtors and our financial early days in AMP4, but we aim to maintain similar out-performance performance.
We have therefore introduced the debtor days KPI as the over the rest of AMP4.
measure by which our performance will be tracked and benchmarked.
Assuming that our year on year billing and collection performance for Protecting the environment each of our various income streams remains constant, we would expect The local environment is especially important for a water company.
How our debtor days to increase on annual basis by approximately two days.
we abstract water, how we manage waste water discharges, how we This is due to the continued impact of customers switching from the operate our treatment sites and network and how we manage resources, unmeasured to measured basis of charge.
all have a huge potential impact on the local environment.
We have a responsibility to minimise that environmental impact and to maximise Our debtor days performance has deteriorated from 31 days in our use of resources.
This deteriorisation is above the two day expected increase described above and has been driven by Minimising our environmental impact operational performance issues within our billing and collection One of our KPIs in this area measures our compliance with the processes.
We intend to position ourselves within the upper quartile of discharge consents for our sewage treatment works.
In 2006, our industry performance by 2011 12. compliance levels were excellent: we achieved a compliance rate of over 99.9%.
This is amongst the best to be found in the industry.
This is to be delivered through a stepped performance improvement in our billing and collection activities.
Another of the KPIs relating to our environmental impact is the number of pollution incidents: more specifically the number of Environment Developing a Sustainable service for our customers Agency reported category 1, 2 and 3 pollution incidents.
The total Serving customers also means looking after their long term interests as number of such pollution incidents was 530 in 2006 calendar year, well as their immediate concerns.
Our main aim is to ensure that we are which was lower than 2005 but still too high.
Of the total recorded, maintaining the serviceability of our assets.
This means carrying out the two were of the most severe in category 1, and eight were category 2. necessary work to make sure their water and sewerage systems deliver This performance is comparable with the industry averages using the reliable service in the future for customers and the environment.
12 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Performance review Within the total number of pollutions, 98% 520 were category 3 The largest single element of our investment in leakage management is incidents which are classified as having a limited and localised incurred in our mains renewal programme.
The Ofwat Determination for environmental impact.
This particular aspect of performance was AMP4 assumed around 184 million of expenditure over 5 years in similar to our 2005 performance 519, placing us in the lower quartile nominal terms.
We have already invested around 85 million in the for the Industry.
We have taken positive steps to make significant first two years and we expect to invest a total of around 231 million, improvements in developing an action plan to deliver pollution some 26% more than assumed in the Determination, over the whole reductions during the current year and through to the end of the AMP4 period on mains renewals alone.
The plan is linked to our proactive and reactive Reducing leakage will remain a priority in 2007 08 and we are work on the sewerage network.
Whilst we only have the first quarter determined to maintain the good progress we have made in the second performance for 2007 the results are encouraging, showing a decrease half of 2006 07.
of almost 35% for category 3 incidents compared to the first quarter of March 2006.
Promoting the efficient use of water is important to us.
During 2006 07 we continued to adopt a twin track approach for promoting the efficient Across the region we have a number of large scale construction and use of water with our customers.
This included the promotion and upgrade projects at a number of sewage treatment works.
These distribution of water saving devices, together with education and the upgrades are already underway, as part of our AMP4 capital provision of advice to raise awareness of the need to use water wisely.
programme and when completed will result in environmental improvements.
We are pleased to report that work is currently Creating a great place to work on schedule.
We have stressed repeatedly that health and safety is the key priority in Severn Trent Water.
At the business level, it is an important indicator of Optimising our use of resources quality.
At the workplace level, the physical well-being of our employees Our water supplies are fundamental to our business.
Our KPI on raw is paramount.
water storage compares the percentage of raw water available at our reservoirs against our three year rolling average.
In line with our KPI on health and safety, we reported a 20% reduction in the RIDDOR reportable incident rate per 1,000 employees in In 2006 07 our raw water storage levels were good despite a dry 2006 07.
This was an improvement on our performance from the summer.
We did not impose a hosepipe ban during the year and previous year.
In 2007 08 and beyond, we will aim to improve further storage levels at year end were normal for the time of year.
on our safety performance and have therefore moved our performance Net energy use measure of RIDDORs to the more demanding measure of loss time Our KPI on net energy use measures how much energy net of incidents LTIs.
renewable energy generated by us we consume per megalitre of water Behavioural change and individual engagement are important aspects or waste water treated.
Since energy costs are a major element of our of improving safety and general business performance.
Towards the end cost base and were especially so in 2006 07 following price rises of 2005 06 we began to develop a safety management system called managing energy usage also enables us to manage costs.
In addition, SUSA Safe and Unsafe Acts.
This is a one-to-one work based managing energy consumption is an essential element in mitigating our observation and discussion process in which SUSA trained managers environmental impact.
talk regularly with their teams about the way in which they and their In 2006 07 we continued to control our net energy consumption in two team do their job.
First, we maintained our renewable energy production at We also began a safety process review of all Severn Trent Waters UK around 155,000 MWh.
This represents 16% of total electricity used.
water and waste water sites.
A survey is being carried out at each site, Secondly, we manage net energy consumption through energy with a target completion date of April 2008. efficiency programmes.
In 2006 07 we completed on schedule, site The engagement and skills of our workforce are vital ingredients in energy reviews of all of our top 407 sites, which account for 85% of our making us a leader in our industry.
We also need to benchmark that electricity costs.
The review has resulted in individual Site Energy engagement rather than simply talking about it in abstract terms.
We believe these plans will enable us We have therefore introduced a KPI on employee motivation.
Previously, to save approximately 10,000 MWh of electricity during 2007 08. we used to run an annual employee survey: we have now moved to a Leakage quarterly survey of 500 randomly selected employees, as well as the This has been a priority for us in 2006 07.
We returned disappointing annual survey of all staff.
This gives us an ongoing measure of staff results in 2005 06 and consequently increased our focus on and morale and motivation, which we can also benchmark against investment in leakage control.
We employed more people in this area, other organisations.
invested in new technology and in 2006 07 found and fixed 37,000 Outlook leaks, 8,000 more than the previous year.
In the first two years of the AMP4 contract, we have made good This effort has reduced our leakage this year but it was not until the progress on the targets set by Ofwat.
Maintaining this progress will month of March 2007 that we attained a monthly level of leakage govern our activities for 2007 08 and beyond.
Our ability to achieve commensurate with our Ofwat annual target.
Therefore, notwithstanding significant operational improvements in 2007 08 and to achieve our this reduction, we believe that we will not attain the annual average AMP4 targets will be boosted by the introduction of our 20 KPIs.
We have kept Ofwat fully informed of our progress and we are in the process of finalising and verifying our leakage data for submission in our annual June Return, which will be submitted in a few weeks.
Severn Trent 13 Performance review Performance 2007 2006 m m Turnover 288.9 299.8 Profit 19.7 17.1 Len Graziano President and Chief Before interest, tax and exceptional items Executive Officer After adjusting for the disposal of the Water Technologies Pipeline Services business and the impact and Services of exchange rate fluctuations, turnover in Severn Trents Water Technology and Services business is a leading Water Technologies and Services was global supplier of water and waste water treatment solutions.
292.6 million in 2006 07, up 2.4% on It comprises three main groups: Water Purification, Operating Services, 2005 06 see below.
Turnover in the US and Analytical Services.
businesses was up by 4% above 2005 06, while turnover originating from business We operate at the forefront of new water technology.
We are market units outside the US was essentially even leaders in our chosen markets of disinfection, filtration, arsenic removal, with last year.
and in the UK environmental testing services.
We are also a leading provider of contract operating services for water and waste water plants.
Profit before interest, exceptional items The Water Purification divisions turnover rose by 4.5% to 105 million and tax was 19.7 million, an increase of and profit before interest and tax increased by 39% on the previous year.
This was mainly achieved through greater operating efficiency.
Turnover in Operating Services for the year was up 1% to 146 million 2007 2006 and profit before interest and tax improved 4%.
m m Year over year, Severn Trent Laboratories UKs STL turnover was 32.5 Turnover 288.9 299.8 million, up 1%.
As a result of the organisations continued cost Pipeline Services 5.1 14.0 efficiency programmes, profit was up 15% on the previous year.
283.8 285.8 Strategy Exchange rate impact 8.8 Our growth strategy is to focus on our core strengths.
Therefore, we 292.6 285.8 made a number of disposals in the 2006 07 financial year, including the sale of our Pipeline Products and Services assets and our Aztec Growth 2.4% instrumentation product line.
These disposals leave us free to concentrate on our core strengths and on higher margin, higher growth areas.
Health and safety RIDDOR incidents We have a twofold strategy for achieving organic growth in these areas.
First, we are expanding our existing technologies into new geographical 2006 07 13 markets and secondly, we are taking new technologies into our existing markets.
In order to achieve the first of these, we are extending our global sales and distribution network outside the US.
2005 06 29 The other aspect of our strategy for delivering good returns to shareholders remains unchanged from previous years.
That is, we continue to focus on cost control, operational efficiency and safety improvements.
We are also pleased to report, the number of health and safety RIDDORS was down by over 55% on 2005 06.
Outlook Looking ahead, we believe the market outlook for Water Technology and Services are generally positive.
In all three areas we will maintain our cost control and efficiency programmes.
14 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Performance review Our corporate responsibilities Severn Trent Plcs decision to focus on water also shifted the focus of Key greenhouse gas emissions Severn Trent Water our corporate responsibility CR strategy in 2006 07.
Our new strategy on CR is to support the companys drive for excellence by achieving the highest standards on a range of CR subject areas.
Electricity use 353 Those subjects include: health and safety: climate change: the local environment: engagement with local communities: business ethics: Electricity use 364 diversity: and investing in people.
Further details of our CR strategy, values and action plans are set out on the Severn Trent website -66 Offset by energy generation www.
Indicators presented in this CR section have been independently -67 Offset by energy generation verified by the external consultants Acona as part of our CR verification programme.
-100 0 100 200 300 400 thousand tonnes CO e 2 Putting CR at the heart of the business 2006 07 2005 06 To be effective, a companys CR strategy must be fully integrated with its core business planning.
The strategic and organisational change that took place within Severn Trent in 2006 07 has reinforced this.
Our Water Resources Plan, sets out our water resources investment As we describe elsewhere in this Annual Review, Severn Trent Water has programme until 2010 and presents a 25 year development plan to adopted 20 KPIs by which it will measure performance and set targets.
Whilst we have committed to delivering a 17 Ml d reduction in Many of these indicators link directly to the companys CR strategy leakage over the AMP4 period, our analysis to 2030 shows there is a for example, the KPIs on health and safety, leakage, net energy use, potential need for new strategic water resource developments and pollution incidents and employee motivation.
This ensures that CR is at further leakage reductions to counter the effects of climate change on the very core of Severn Trent Waters activities.
Additional CR objectives the supply demand balance for water.
We therefore aim to carry out have been set to ensure focus across all other elements of our CR work during AMP4 and AMP5 to understand better the climate change strategy.
Water Technologies and Services has adopted quarterly CR impacts and to plan longer term feasibility studies that will ensure water KPIs in the areas of health and safety, climate change, the supply chain supply to our customers at least cost to them, whilst still considering and business ethics focusing on its core business.
the longer term social and environmental impact of future increased water abstraction.
A key part of this process will be to continue to In addition, the companys Corporate Responsibility Committee, reduce demand and promote water efficiency.
which now meets bimonthly, has introduced a more structured approach to reviewing all areas of our CR performance through Workplace the new KPIs and objectives.
Over the past two years we have written much about our work to strengthen our internal business culture and ethics.
This work continued As several of our core CR issues now appear in the companys new in 2006 07 making Severn Trent a more open and transparent culture, KPIs, our progress on them in 2006 07 has already been described where there are no barriers to evaluating performance, whether good earlier in this report, in the Performance Review.
Below we look at other or bad.
CR subject areas that have been important to Severn Trents activities and focus in 2006 07.
By the end of March 2007, over 550 Severn Trent Water senior and middle managers had attended a training workshop on ethical decision Environment making.
We designed this programme with the help of the Institute of We welcome that climate change has risen up the political and public Business Ethics.
It gives managers a set of principles and tools to deal agenda in 2006 07.
Severn Trent Water has been engaged in planning with ethical challenges in their day to day work.
The next phase is to for a changing climate for a number of years.
We have built a leading extend the training across the organisation, to reach all employees.
reputation in this area with key stakeholders such as the Carbon Trust.
In 2005, we published the Carbon Management report supported by Water Technologies and Services has also implemented a business the Carbon Trust.
This year we have worked on updating this to take ethics training program.
Employees worldwide attended Ethical into account the changes within the business.
Behaviour at Work training which included the Code of Conduct, Business Ethics and Whistleblowing.
US staff were in addition Our work on climate change focuses on two main aspects: mitigating involved in Fair Treatment training focusing on maintaining an our impact on climate change: and adapting to it.
In turn, mitigation has appropriate workplace.
two main aspects: energy efficiency initiatives: and in-house renewable energy production, primarily biogas CHP.
The effects of our work in both Another mechanism for improving our business is strengthening the these areas are reflected in our KPI on net energy use.
training we give to new managers.
In Severn Trent Water we are now taking a more individual approach to new manager development and Our work on climate change adaptation involves trying to assess in addition to an induction Stepping Into Management, there are a how climate change might impact Severn Trent Waters operations and variety of modules for managers new to their role.
Water supply and sewer flooding are two areas of particular importance.
Severn Trent 15 Our corporate responsibilities continued Our employees Group health and safety Our most important obligation to our employees is to ensure their safety and this is covered in the KPIs.
We also have other obligations to 24% improvement in RIDDOR our workforce.
They include: promoting diversity, investing in training, promoting work life balance: and enabling participation in our incident rate employee share ownership schemes.
Severn Trent Water launched an important development scheme in Per 1,000 2006 07.
Developing Talent is a structured and inclusive two year employees development programme for people with high potential in the early stages of their career.
Unlike its predecessor, the old graduate scheme, 2006 07 7.1 our new programme is now open to current employees, graduates and 2005 06 9.3 non graduates as well as externally recruited graduates.
RIDDOR Reportable Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations We extended the 2006 apprenticeship recruitment campaign and saw 1,000 applications for 40 roles.
The apprentices chosen joined Community 49 other trainees in distribution and sewerage who began their Severn Trent Waters relationship with the regional community is development programmes earlier in the year.
Some of them will be another facet of our CR strategy.
Our engagement with the community the first in the UK to earn qualifications under the proposed Water takes several forms: community investment, community liaison and Apprenticeship Framework.
In Water Technologies and Services a training program has been Our community investment programme focuses on three areas: the specially designed to identify tomorrows technical experts.
Successful natural environment, education: and health and well-being.
We applicants receive a personal development plan and time to develop continued our work with nine partner charities that operate at a local technical capabilities.
A diverse workforce is important to the success of the company and we We also made a substantial grant to the Severn Trent Trust Fund, as in promote this in our working practices.
There is always scope to improve previous years.
This independent charity was established in 1997 to our diversity performance and our measures to do this include: help customers in genuine financial difficulty apply for help with paying monitoring diversity profiles: targeted recruitment initiatives: diversity water and other utility bills.
The trust fund helps customers to become awareness training: and benchmarking our policies and practices good payers.
Our annual funding of the trust is 3.6 million per year.
Water Technologies and Services Our education programme aims to raise awareness of the importance programs such as Affirmitive Action in North America ensure that of water and water efficiency.
We have continued two main initiatives: managers have a diverse applicant pool.
our educational centres and BeSmart, an education programme which Severn Trent Water has positive working relationships with recognised teaches school children about water efficiency.
Regular meetings with trade unions provide opportunities children visited our educational centres, while 46 schools took part for ongoing dialogue and enhancement of their understanding of the in BeSmart.
Independent research into the two initiatives, commissioned in Marketplace 2006 07, shows that both are successful in promoting the health Severn Trent Water has been working to develop its supply chain aspects of drinking water and the importance of water efficiency.
Significant It is clear that children that have direct experience of a Severn Trent contractors suppliers have been required for some years to provide Water education initiative are more engaged, active and vocal about information on their health and safety performance and their their water behaviours, concluded the researchers.
In 2006 we recognised During the year, the BeSmart programme won a West Midlands a need to build on that.
Therefore, in 2006 07 Severn Trent Water Business in the Community Big Tick award for investing in young began developing a new standardised risk based approach to supply people.
It also won a Utility Week award for best community initiative.
chain assessment, focusing not just on health and safety and environment, but also on human rights, bribery and corruption.
We have been working with Nottingham Trent University in the development of a Supply Chain Diploma in Management Studies a first in the Utility sector.
The course participants represent all areas of the supply chain, both internal and external.
16 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Performance review Summary financial review Michael McKeon Group Finance Director Financial highlights 2007 2006 % change Turnover m 1,480.2 1,455.3 1.7 Profit before interest, tax and exceptionals m 405.3 393.0 3.1 Profit before interest and tax m 430.0 377.3 14.0 Profit before tax, exceptionals and IAS 39 m 252.0 230.2 9.5 Profit before tax m 325.5 177.8 83.1 Earnings per share before exceptionals, IAS 39 and deferred tax p 82.4 71.4 15.4 Earnings per share p 106.1 52.9 100.6 Final dividend p 38.68 31.97 21.0 Interim dividend p 22.77 19.16 18.8 Total dividend for the year p 61.45 51.13 20.2 Total rebased dividend 61.45 57.00 7.8 From continuing operations Group results Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was up by 3.1% on the Group turnover from continuing operations was 1,480.2 million previous year to 413.0 million.
Beyond the increase in turnover a 1,455.3 million, an increase of 1.7% over last year.
The growth in number of factors affected profit before interest, tax and exceptional turnover was mainly due to the price increases in Severn Trent Water items, principally: an increase in energy costs of 24 million, other and organic growth in the Water Purification business partially offset by increases, net of efficiencies, in our cost base of 17.4 million, increase the disposal of a small business Pipeline Services and a reduction in infrastructure renewals expenditure of 3.6 million and an increase in in activity in the other businesses.
depreciation charges of 10.1 million reflecting the growing asset base.
Group profit from continuing operations before interest, tax and Financial highlights exceptional items was up 3.1% to 405.3 million 393 million.
During the financial year, Severn Trent Water invested 502 million in Beyond the net increase in turnover, the factors affecting profit before fixed assets and maintaining its infrastructure network.
Included in this interest and tax were cost increases in Water and Sewerage partially total was net infrastructure maintenance expenditure of 98.0 million.
offset by margin growth in Water Technologies and Services.
There was Adjusting for minor timing differences and modifications to the AMP4 a net exceptional gain of 24.7 million exceptional charge of 15.7 capital programme notified to Ofwat through the change control million see below.
Group profit from continuing operations before process we are on track to deliver this programme over the AMP4 interest and tax was 430.0 million 377.3 million.
We continue to be in line to achieve around 6% efficiencies Water and Sewerage compared with Ofwats Final Determination for AMP4.
Turnover in Water and Sewerage increased by 5.8% in 2006 07 to 1,218.1 million.
Sales prices increased by 6.58% including inflation from 1 April 2006.
The price rise represented the 7.23% increase allowed by Ofwat, less a 0.65% voluntary abatement previously announced in 2005 06.
Severn Trent 17 Summary financial review continued Water Technologies and Services Discontinued operations Turnover in Water Technologies and Services was 288.9 million in Discontinued operations generated a profit before tax and exceptional 2006 07, down 3.6% on 2005 06.
As set out in the table below, items of 59.6 million 88.2 million.
After tax charges of 15.2 million adjusting for the effect of the sale of a small business Pipeline Services credit of 11.2 million and net exceptional charges of 24.4 million and removing the impact of changing exchange rates, turnover rose by nil, net profit attributable to discontinued operations was 20 million 2.4% to 292.6 million.
On the same basis, turnover in the US was up 99.4 million.
Turnover in the UK and rest of the world was up by around 3.1% Earnings per share through continued organic growth.
Around 43% of Water Technologies Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations and Services turnover arose from customers in the USA.
Adjusted basic earnings per share 31 March 31 March before exceptional items, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred 2007 2006 tax were 82.4 pence 71.4 pence, an increase of 15.4%.
m m Exceptional items Turnover 288.9 299.8 There was a net exceptional gain, on continuing operations, in the year Pipeline Services 5.1 14.0 to 31 March 2007 of 24.7 million exceptional charge of 15.7 million 283.8 285.8 which comprised: Exchange rate impact 8.8 a charge of 14.9 million in Severn Trent Water arising from 292.6 285.8 a programme to restructure and realign the business 11.9 million write off of decommissioned assets and 3.0 million restructuring costs, Water Technologies and Services profit before interest, tax and demerger and related costs of 16.7 million including 7.8 million exceptional items increased by 15.2% to 19.7 million.
The arising from the settlement of pension obligations : and improvement mainly arises from improved margins across all principal profit on disposal of property and businesses of businesses.
The impact of changing exchange rates was immaterial.
56.3 million, comprising: Corporate and Other profit of 36.2 million arising from the disposal of properties Other Businesses turnover was down 82.6% to 10.3 million.
Corporate in Severn Trent Water: and Other incurred a loss before interest tax and exceptional items of 26.3 million loss of 25.7 million.
profit on disposal of Aquafin NV of 14.7 million: and Interest and tax profit of 5.4 million from the disposal of Severn Trent After net interest charges of 153.8 million 163.9 million and share Property and other property assets in Severn Trent Plc.
of results of associates and joint ventures of 0.5 million 1.1 million, There were net exceptional charges of 24.4 million nil on group profit from continuing operations before tax, exceptional items discontinued operations, which comprised: and IAS 39 fair value adjustments increased by 9.5% to 252.0 million 230.2 million.
Group profit from continuing operations before tax was profit on disposal of Biffa Belgium of 9.5 million, 325.5 million 177.8 million.
a charge of 31.5 million arising from the impairment of goodwill The total tax charge for the year was 76.9 million 54.2 million of relating to US Laboratories: and which current tax represented 58.5 million 61.5 million and deferred loss on disposal of US Laboratories of 2.4 million tax 18.4 million credit of 7.3 million.
Profit for the period from continuing operations was 248.6 million 123.6 million.
The effective rate of current tax on continuing businesses, excluding prior year charges and exceptional items, calculated on profit before tax, exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value adjustments was 27% 28.7%.
The decrease in effective rate is a result of a lower level of disallowable expenditure.
Going forward we expect the effective current tax rate for 2007 08 to be in the range of 25% to 28%.
18 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Performance review Capital structure and dividend policy Net debt at 31 March 2006 was 3,127.6 million 2,961.1 million.
During the year the group reviewed its capital structure and its dividend Year end balance sheet gearing is 73.3% 60.9%.
Net debt, expressed policy in the light of the transformation of its business structure and the as a percentage of 31 March 2007 Regulatory Capital Value RCV focus on water strategy.
The greater longer term clarity provided by this was 56.4% 56.8%, based on RCV at 31 March 2007 of 5,546 million strategy enabled the group to declare its intention to raise gearing, as 5,209 million.
The groups net interest charge, excluding IAS 39 fair defined by net debt to regulated capital value net debt RCV, to 60%.
value adjustments, was covered 4.2 times 3.8 times by profit before Leading directly from this decision, a special dividend of 575 million interest, tax, depreciation and exceptional items, and 2.6 times 2.3 was paid on 20 October 2006.
The tighter focus of this new strategy also times by profit before interest tax and exceptionals.
allowed the group to declare a new dividend policy to raise dividends by Pensions 3% above RPI inflation through to the end of the current AMP period The group has four defined benefit pension schemes, of which the Severn 31 March 2010.
Trent Pension Scheme STPS is by far the largest.
Formal actuarial Cash flow valuations were undertaken for the STPS and another scheme, the Continuing Discontinued 2007 2006 Severn Trent Senior Staff Pension Scheme SSPS, as at 31 March 2004. m m m m On the demerger of Biffa Plc the company entered into an agreement Cash generated with that company and the trustees of the STPS, the SSPS and the UK from operations 486.5 87.5 574.0 758.9 Waste Pension Scheme UKWPS whereby the assets and liabilities Net capital expenditure 317.7 33.8 351.5 395.9 relating to Biffa Plc employees in the STPS and the SSPS would be Net interest paid 157.8 1.4 156.4 180.1 transferred to the UKWPS with effect from 31 March 2007.
The net Tax paid 29.6 6.4 36.0 68.3 deficit relating to Biffa employees at the demerger date was 39 million.
Other cash flows 0.8 0.4 1.2 0.2 This has been included in the net assets that formed the dividend in specie on demerger.
The reduction in the deficit between the demerger Free cash flow 17.8 49.1 31.3 114.4 date and 31 March 2007 has been treated as an exceptional loss on Dividends 739.5 739.5 234.3 settlement of 7.8 million.
Acquisitions and disposals 138.0 138.0 1.3 Financing 10.0 10.0 11.6 Change in net debt from cash flows 609.3 49.1 560.2 107.0 Operating activities generated a net cash inflow of 574.0 million 758.9 million.
Movements in working capital along with the demerger of Biffa Plc on 9 October 2006, sale of Biffa Belgium, the US Laboratories and the Property businesses have resulted in lower group operating cash flows compared with the previous year.
Capital expenditure net of grants and proceeds from asset sales principally surplus properties 62.2 million 8.4 million was 351.5million 395.9 million.
Net interest paid decreased to 156.4 million 180.1 million due to the timing of interest payments on finance leases.
Tax payments also fell compared with the prior year to 36.0 million 68.3 million due to refunds received relating to tax paid in prior years.
Dividends paid, including the special dividend of 575 million, amounted to 739.5 million 234.3 million.
After the receipt of 10.0 million from share options exercised 11.6 million and other cash inflows of 1.2 million outflow of 0.2 million net debt increased by 560.2 million 107.0 million from cash flows.
Severn Trent 19 Summary financial review continued On an IAS19 basis, the estimated net position before deferred tax of Dividends all of the groups defined benefit pension schemes was a deficit of An interim dividend of 22.77p 19.16p was paid on 24 January 2007.
This compares with a deficit of The board is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 38.68p 221.9 million as at 31 March 2006.
The movement in the deficit arose 31.97p to make a total dividend, excluding the special dividend, of as a result of: 61.45p 51.13p.
Following the demerger of Biffa Plc and the share consolidation that followed, the dividend for the year ended 31 March Additional contributions made during the year of 83 million: 2006 was rebased to 57p per share.
The total dividend proposed for the Net deficit of 31.2 million transferred to Biffa Plc as a result year ended 31 March 2007 represents growth of 7.8% on the rebased of the demerger: dividend, in line with the boards previously announced policy.
Strengthening the actuarial assumption relating to longevity, which Treasury management increased the deficit by 60 million, offset by an increase in the The groups treasury affairs are managed centrally and in accordance discount rate which reduced the actuarial value of liabilities by with its Treasury Procedures Manual and Policy Statement.
The treasury 61.7 million: operations primary role is to manage liquidity, funding, investment and the groups financial risk, including risk from volatility in interest and to Service cost in excess of normal contributions of 27.2 million a lesser extent currency rates and counterparty credit risk.
Its activities resulting from part of the 2006 07 normal contributions having are subject to a set of controls commensurate with the magnitude of been prepaid in 2005 06: and the borrowings and investments under its management.
The board Other actuarial losses of 1.9 million determines matters of treasury policy and its approval is required for certain treasury transactions.
Total cash contributions to the schemes in the year were 97.4 million 105.2 million.
It is the groups strategy to access a broad range of sources of finance to obtain both the quantum required and the lowest cost compatible The key actuarial assumptions utilised in the valuation were: with the need for continued availability.
2007 2006 The group uses financial derivatives solely for the purposes of managing Discount rate 5.4% 4.9% risk associated with financing its normal business activities.
The group Inflation 3.0% 2.7% does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial Expected return on equities 8.25% 8.0% trading purposes.
The group uses a limited number of currency swaps Life expectancy at age 65 and interest rate swaps to redenominate external borrowings into the For current pensioners currencies and interest rate coupon required for group purposes.
Men years 19.2 18.3 The groups policy for the management of interest rate risk requires Women years 22.1 21.0 that no less than 50% of the groups borrowings should be at fixed interest rates, or hedged through the use of interest rate swaps or For future pensioners currently aged 45 forward rate agreements.
At 31 March 2007, interest rates for some Men years 19.9 18.9 68% of the groups net debt of 3,127.6 million were so fixed, at a Women years 23.0 21.8 weighted average interest rate of 5.7% for a weighted average period of On an IAS19 basis, the funding level has improved from around 86% 13.5 years.
This policy has been implemented by entering into a at 31 March 2006 to around 91% at 31 March 2007. portfolio of long dated interest rate swaps that hedge the groups economic exposure to changes in interest rates.
However, these swaps As at 31 March 2007 the groups defined benefit pension schemes had are not designated to particular liabilities and hence do not meet the total assets of approximately 1,365 million, 1,403 million.
criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Consequently the swaps are Further details of the groups pension position are contained in note 28 revalued at each balance sheet date and the change in fair value is to the accounts.
taken to the income statement as a finance cost.
In the year ended 31 March 2007 52.7 m was credited 31.5m charged to net finance costs in respect of such fair value movements.
20 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Performance review The groups business does not involve significant exposure to foreign exchange transactions.
Cross currency swaps are employed to exchange foreign currency borrowings for sterling.
The group also has investments in various assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally the US dollar and the euro.
The groups current policy is to hedge an element of the currency translation risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated assets.
The long term credit ratings of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited are: Long term ratings Severn Trent Severn Trent Water Limited Plc Moodys A2A3 Standard & Poors A A Further details of the groups borrowings, investments and financial instruments are contained in note 20 to the accounts.
Accounting policies and presentation of the financial statements The Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards that have been ratified by the European Union.
There have been no changes in accounting policies during the year ended 31 March 2007.
Following the demerger of Biffa Plc and the disposal of US Laboratories the comparative figures have been restated to reclassify these businesses as discontinued operations.
Biffa Belgium, which was also sold during the year, was already classified as a discontinued operation in the previous year since it was held for sale at the previous year end.
Severn Trent Property and the former associated company Aquafin NV do not meet the definition of discontinued operations in IFRS 5 and hence are included in continuing operations although they too were sold during the year.
Exchange rates Approximately 2% of the groups profit before interest, tax and exceptional items and 2% of its operating assets are denominated in US dollars.
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated to sterling at the average rate of exchange ruling during the year and their net assets are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Supplementary information For supplementary information including the groups preliminary results presentation, see the Severn Trent website www.
Michael McKeon Group Finance Director Severn Trent 21 Board of directors 1 2 3 4 1 Sir John Egan MSc Econ BSc 67 3 Michael McKeon MA CA 50 Sir John Egan joined the board in October 2004 and became Chairman Mr McKeon joined the board on 13 December 2005 as Group Finance on 1 January 2005.
He is a director of Warwick Castle Park Trust Ltd Director.
Prior to that, he was Group Finance Director of the buildings and was, until recently, Chairman of Inchcape plc and Harrison materials group Novar Plc.
Mr McKeon worked for Rolls Royce Plc from Lovegrove & Co Ltd. Sir John worked in the motor industry until 1990 1997 to 2000 in various senior roles including Finance Director of the at General Motors, Massey Ferguson and British Leyland, rising to Aerospace Group.
He has extensive international business experience, become Chairman and Chief Executive of Jaguar plc.
He was Chief having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem and Price Executive of BAA plc from 1990 to 1999 and Chairman of MEPC from Waterhouse.
Mr McKeon is a Chartered Accountant and a Member of 1998 to 2000.
He was also President of the Confederation of British the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Sir John was knighted in the Queens Birthday Honours List in 1986.
He is a deputy lieutenant of the 4 Tony Wray BSc Hons 45 County of Warwickshire and from September 2007, Chancellor of Mr Wray joined the board in March 2005.
He is Managing Director of Coventry University.
Prior to that, he was Director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic of Irelands telephone operator.
He joined British 2 Colin Matthews MA CEng MBA 51 Gas in 1983 and held various managerial positions before becoming Mr Matthews joined the board in October 2003, becoming Group Chief Head of Asset Management.
In 2000 he moved to Transco, first as Executive on 1 February 2005.
He is a non-executive director of Mondi Director of Asset Management, then as National Operations Director, Ltd and Mondi Plc, currently part of Anglo-American Plc.
He is a before being appointed to implement the merger integration of Lattice Chartered Engineer and worked for the American General Electric Transco and National Grid Group into National Grid Transco.
Company and then for British Airways, first as Director of Engineering, then as Director of Technical Operations, responsible for all aircraft 5 John Smith FCCA Hon.
FRIBA 49 maintenance, IT and procurement.
Mr Matthews was Group Managing Mr Smith joined the board in November 2003.
He is currently Chief Director of Transco from 2001 to 2002 and then CEO of Hays Plc from Executive of BBC Worldwide and has held various other senior positions 2002 to 2004. within the BBC since joining in 1989 including: Finance Director from 1996 to 2006: Director of Finance, Property and Business Affairs from 2000 to 2004: and Chief Operating Officer until 2005.
Mr Smith has held a non-executive directorship with Vickers Plc, was a member of the advisory board of Zurich Financial Services UK and was a director of the Royal Television Society.
He also served for three years on the Accounting Standards Board until November 2004.
22 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Governance 5 6 7 8 6 Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC 49 Membership of board and Corporate Responsibility Mr Houston joined the board in September 2003.
He is Executive management committees is as Committee Vice President and Managing Director of BG Groups North American, detailed below: B Bulkin Chairman Caribbean and Global Liquefied Natural Gas business, and a member Sir John Egan of their Group Executive Committee.
He joined BG Group in 1983 and Board committees C S Matthews has held a number of technical and commercial roles with a Audit Committee F B Smith Secretary predominantly international focus.
He is a fellow of the Geological J B Smith Chairman Society of London.
B Bulkin Management committee R H Davey Executive Committee 7 Richard Davey 58 F B Smith Secretary C S Matthews Chairman Mr Davey joined the board on 1 January 2006.
He is non-executive A Ballance Chairman of London Capital Holdings Plc and a non-executive director Remuneration Committee C J Ford of Yorkshire Building Society and Amlin Plc.
He also served as a nonR H Davey Chairman P J Gavan executive director of Freeserve Plc from 1999 to 2001 and of Scottish B Bulkin L F Graziano Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society from 1996 to 2000.
The Sir John Egan M J Kane majority of Mr Daveys executive career was spent in investment M J Houston R S Martin banking at N M Rothschild & Sons where he served in various roles F B Smith Secretary M J E McKeon including Head of Investment Banking.
Prior to that, he worked at J C OSullivan various organisations including Merrill Lynch International Limited and Nominations Committee A J Richmond Exco International Plc.
Sir John Egan Chairman S C Smedley B Bulkin c A P Smith 8 Bernard Bulkin, BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE 65 R H Davey c F B Smith Dr Bulkin joined the board on 1 January 2006.
He is Chairman of AEA M J Houston J van den Arend Schmidt Technology Plc, Chairman of Swedish company Chemrec AB and a nonC S Matthews A P Wray executive director of Accelergy Corporation in California.
He is also a J B Smith c Venture Partner at Vantage Point, an international venture capital firm F B Smith Secretary Senior independent and a Commissioner on the UK Sustainable Development Commission.
non-executive director In 2003 he retired as Chief Scientist at BP Plc, where he had worked for c Core Members R H Davey eighteen years.
Group General Counsel Non-executive director and Company Secretary F B Smith Severn Trent 23 Summary directors report Principal activities and business review Substantial shareholdings The principal activities of the group are the supply of water and the As at 5 June 2007 the company had been notified of the following treatment and disposal of sewage.
A review of the results for the year substantial shareholdings: ended 31 March 2007 and information relating to the group, its Number of ordinary strategy and the operation of its businesses appear on pages 4 to 21. shares of 17 97 19p each % Dividends An interim dividend of 22.77 pence per ordinary share was paid on Barclays plc 8,412,304 3.61 24 January 2007.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 38.68 Legal & General pence per ordinary share to be paid on 3 August 2007 to shareholders Investment Management Limited 8,235,812 3.53 on the register on 29 June 2007.
This would bring the total dividend for 2006 07, excluding the special dividend paid on 20 October 2006, to 61.45 pence per ordinary share 2006: 51.13p.
The payment of Annual General Meeting the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual The Annual General Meeting of the company will be held at the National General Meeting.
Motorcycle Museum, Coventry Road, Bickenhill, Solihull, West Midlands B92 0EJ at 11.00am on Tuesday 24 July 2007.
The notice convening Directors the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered and The names and biographies of the directors currently serving on the explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to board are set out on pages 22 and 23 respectively.
It is also available on the companys website: served as directors during the year: www.
com Martin Flower retired from the board as a non-executive director on 10 June 2006: Marisa Cassoni retired from the board as a non-executive director By order of the board on 6 October 2006: Martin Bettington retired from the board as an executive director on 6 October 2006: and Rachel Brydon Jannetta retired from the board as an executive Fiona Smith director on 29 December 2006.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary The directors retiring by rotation at this years Annual General Meeting 5 June 2007 are Sir John Egan and Tony Wray and, each being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Corporate governance During the year, and as part of our strategy of focusing on water, all the current executive and non-executive directors of Severn Trent Plc were appointed to identical positions on Severn Trent Water Limited.
Since March 2006 the boards of directors of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited are identical.
Severn Trent attaches great significance to the maintenance of good corporate governance procedures and adherence to best practice recognising that they play their part in creating a framework which can provide increased benefits for shareholders.
A statement of how the company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2007, and the period up to the date of approving the accounts, the board considers that the company has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code, with the exception of the appointment of Sir John Egan to the Remuneration Committee as detailed in the corporate governance report of the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
24 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Governance Summary directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee Total remuneration package The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the board, the The chart below shows the expected values of salary, bonus and long companys policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the term incentives for target performance for the executive directors.
The committee is also consulted on the remuneration policy for the next band of senior executives.
Chief Executive The committee is comprised exclusively of independent non-executive directors of the company, with the exception of Sir John Egan, the Finance company Chairman who was independent on his appointment to the Director board.
The members of the committee during the year were: MD Severn Richard Davey Chairman from 11 06 06 Trent Water Martin Flower Chairman until 10 06 06 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Bernard Bulkin from 03 11 06 Salary Target bonus cash Target bonus deferred shares Expected value of LTIP awards Marisa Cassoni until 06 10 06 Sir John Egan from 03 11 06 Martin Houston Personal shareholdings The company operates shareholding guidelines under which executive With the exception of Sir John Egan, the committee members have directors are expected to build and maintain a minimum holding of no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters shares in the company.
The Group Chief Executive is expected to build to be decided.
The constitution and operation of the committee comply and maintain a holding of shares to the value of 1.5 x base salary and with the Combined Code apart from Sir John Egans appointment to other executive directors 1 x base salary.
the committee as detailed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
In setting performance related remuneration, the committee has regard to Through a variety of share schemes, all employees are encouraged to the provisions set out in Schedule A to the Combined Code.
hold shares in the company.
Advisers External directorships To ensure that the companys remuneration practices are market Executive directors are encouraged to take on external non-executive competitive, the committee has access to detailed external research on directorships, though normally only one other FTSE 100 appointment.
market data and trends from experienced specialist consultants.
In order to avoid any conflicts of interest, all such appointments are subject to the approval of the Nominations Committee.
Executive The Chairman of the board, prior to his appointment to the directors are normally only permitted to retain the fees arising from one Committee, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Human such appointment.
None of the executive directors currently hold any Resources Director, Andy Smith until 31 January 2007 and Sally such appointments.
Smedley from 12 February 2007, also attended some meetings to provide advice and respond to specific questions.
Such attendances Chairman and other non-executive directors specifically exclude any matter concerning their own remuneration.
The The remuneration policy for non-executive directors, other than the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
Chairman, is determined by the board, within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
Remuneration policy The companys continuing remuneration policy for executive directors is Save for John Smith, whose total fees are paid directly to his employer, to provide remuneration in a form and amount which will attract, retain, non-executive directors receive 90% of their total fees in cash and the motivate and reward high calibre individuals.
The remuneration package remaining 10% is used to purchase shares in the company.
A similar is based on the following principles: arrangement is in place for the Chairman but with 85% of fees paid in cash and 15% used to buy shares in the company.
The Chairman and Incentives are aligned with the interests of shareholders and seek non-executive directors are expected to retain those shares for the to reward the creation of long term value: duration of their appointment with the company.
Non-executive Reward elements are designed to reinforce the link between directors are not eligible to participate in share or bonus schemes nor performance and reward.
Performance related elements should is any pension provision made.
form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package and typically comprise at least 50% of total remuneration, if paid at the The non-executive directors do not have service contracts or maximum: consultancy agreements with any group company, but they do have The total remuneration package for on target performance should letters of appointment.
be fully competitive, but not excessive, in the relevant market: Packages are structured flexibly to meet critical resource needs and retain key executives.
Severn Trent 25 Summary directors remuneration report continued Remuneration arrangements for executive directors The remaining 50% of the 2005 awards will be triggered subject to the The remuneration arrangements for executive directors comprise the satisfaction of group EP targets.
For the 2005 awards, EP is calculated following elements: by reference to a post tax rate of return of 7.5%.
Base salary and benefits: For executives below board level in the non water businesses, 25% of Annual bonus plan: their LTIP awards are dependent upon the TSR target and 75% of their Long Term Incentive Plans: awards are set by reference to EP targets.
2006 LTIP award Details of each of the above elements are as follows: Vesting of the 2006 awards is wholly dependent on a Total Shareholder Return TSR target over a fixed three year period beginning on 1 April Base salaries and benefits 2006.
There is no retesting of the condition.
Base salaries are a fixed cash sum payable monthly.
The companys policy is to set the salary for each executive director having regard to The comparator group companies for the 2006 LTIP award are: the market median for similar roles in publicly quoted companies of a AWG Pennon Group comparable size and, so far as practical, undertaking similar activities.
BT Group Rentokil Initial Salaries for individual directors are reviewed annually by the Centrica Scottish & Newcastle remuneration committee.
From 2007 the remuneration committee Compass Scottish & Southern Energy agreed that salary increases will take effect from 1 July in line with the Kelda Scottish Power rest of the business.
Salaries are set with reference to individual National Grid United Utilities performance, experience and contribution, together with developments Northumbrian Water in the relevant employment market and internal relativities.
For the 2006 awards, where comparator group companies have been The non salary benefits for executive directors comprise the use of delisted during the course of the performance period, the proceeds of company car or allowance, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance that sale will be reinvested in another company selected from an agreed and an incapacity benefits scheme.
list of high yield organisations.
Annual bonus plan During the performance period, AWG have delisted and therefore will Executive directors are eligible for annual bonuses to encourage be replaced in the comparator group by Unilever from the date of improved performance, with financial and non financial targets AWGs delisting.
established by the committee to align executive directors interests with shareholders.
2007 LTIP award Vesting of the 2007 awards will be subject to TSR, measured relative Annual bonus payments are not taken into account in calculating to those companies ranked 51-150 in the FTSE by market capitalisation executive directors pension entitlements.
This is felt to be the most suitable Long term incentives comparator group on the basis that the number of listed water At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the companies and regulated utilities against which to compare the introduction of the Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP 2005, which companys performance is now too small to enable meaningful analysis.
replaced the 1997 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Under the LTIP 2005, annual conditional awards of performance shares may be made to Total shareholder return executive directors and senior staff, up to an annual maximum limit of 250 shares worth 125% of base salary.
225 2005 LTIP award 200 In respect of the 2005 LTIP awards, 50% will be triggered if the 175 companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance is at the median 150 125 or above relative to the following group of water and waste companies 100 and other selected FTSE 100 high yield stocks as follows: 75 AWG Pennon Group 50 BOC Group Rentokil Initial 25 BT Group Scottish & Newcastle 0 Diageo Scottish & Southern Energy 31-03-02 31-03-03 31-03-04 31-03-05 31-03-06 31-03-07 Severn Trent Plc FTSE 100 Index Kelda Group Scottish Power This graph shows the value, at 31 March 2007, of 100 invested in Severn Trent on National Grid Shanks Group 31 March 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Northumbrian Water Unilever The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Pearson United Utilities So far in the performance period, AWG and BOC Group have both delisted.
The committee has agreed that their TSR performance will be substituted with those of Compass Group and Centrica respectively the next highest yield companies in the FTSE 100 with each replacement being effective from the dates that the original companies delisted.
26 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Value Governance Post retirement benefits Of the current executive directors, Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate in the Senior Staff Pension Scheme as did Martin Bettington prior to the demerger of Biffa.
The Scheme is a funded HMRC registered final salary occupational pension scheme which provides: A normal retirement age of 60 years: An overall pension at normal retirement age of two thirds of final pensionable salary, which for executive directors is defined as base salary only, subject to the completion of 20 years pensionable service: Life cover of 4 x pensionable earnings: A pension payable in the event of retirement on grounds of ill health: A dependants pension on death of two thirds of the members pension.
Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate up to the level of the scheme specific earnings cap the Cap which in 2006 07 was 108,600.
Both are provided with a cash supplement in lieu of an unfunded arrangement.
As disclosed in last years Remuneration Report, the company reviewed its pension policy for directors and employees as a result of the Pensions Act 2004, Finance Act 2004 and the results of the triennial valuation of two of its main schemes during 2004.
As a result of this review, new executives are offered an allowance, expressed as a percentage of base salary, to fund their own pension provision.
The individual is able to choose whether the allowance is paid to the companys registered defined contribution scheme, taken as cash or paid to a personal pension arrangement.
This reflects the wish of the committee to remove future exposure to defined benefit schemes for senior executives.
The new arrangements apply to Michael McKeon at 40% of base salary.
Directors service agreements and letters of appointment A model service contract was approved by the committee in 2004.
All current executive directors have signed the model contract and, accordingly, service agreements for all executive directors have notice periods of 12 months from either party.
They also provide for a maximum damages payment in the case of redundancy or termination in breach of the agreement by the company of up to 175% of base salary which was calculated as a conservative pre-estimate of the value of salary, fixed benefits and on target bonus.
The reference to 175% is a cap and any damages payments will not be made automatically but will be subject to both phasing and mitigation unless, in the circumstances, the committee considers it appropriate to achieve a clean break through payment of a lump sum in which case it will require some discount for early payment.
Contracts also permit the committee to take into account a view of the extent of poor performance on the part of the executive director.
Any payment will not include amounts in respect of awards which have been made under the companys LTIPs over which the committee retains discretion.
There are no specific contractual payments or benefits which would be triggered in the event of a change in control of the company.
The gross value of the shares is recorded in the table above.
Non-executive directors who were either appointed or retired during the year received a time apportioned award.
The number of shares received by each director was: Ordinary Ordinary shares shares 17 5 of 97 19p of 65 19p each each Sir John Egan 746 757 Bernard Bulkin 154 128 Marisa Cassoni 98 Richard Davey 188 167 Martin Houston 90 91 2 Benefits in kind received by Sir John Egan comprise the use of a company car.
Benefits in kind for executive directors comprise the use of a company car, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity benefits scheme.
3 Other emoluments include: expenses chargeable to income tax, allowances in lieu of a company car, travel allowances, relocation expenses, telephone allowances, payments made under the groups flexible benefit arrangements and amounts paid in lieu of pension contributions.
Included in other emoluments are: Martin Flower expenses chargeable to income tax 3,271.
Richard Davey expenses chargeable to income tax 946.
Martin Bettington amounts received in lieu of pension contributions 67,167 and flexible benefits payments 1,583.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta amounts received in lieu of pension contributions 59,422, termination payment 47,057 and allowance in lieu of company car 3,034.
Colin Matthews amounts received in lieu of pension contributions 180,560, allowance in lieu of company car 18,000, travel allowance 15,000 and telephone allowance 113.
Tony Wray amounts received in lieu of pension contributions 66,560 and flexible benefits payments 3,616.
Michael McKeon allowance in lieu of company car 15,000, relocation expenses 60,061 and other expenses chargeable to income tax 6,469.
4 John Smiths total fees are paid directly to his employer.
Signed on behalf of the board who approved the directors remuneration report on 5 June 2007.
Richard Davey Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Summary financial statement Summary financial statement The summary directors report on page 24, the summary directors remuneration report on pages 25 to 28 and the summary financial statement on pages 30 and 31 are a summary of information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
This Annual Review and summary financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the company or of the group nor of the policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration as would be provided by the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
Shareholders requiring more detailed information have the right to obtain, free of charge a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2007 may be obtained by writing to: The Company Secretary, Severn Trent Plc, 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU.
Alternatively it can be accessed on the website at: www.
Shareholders can elect to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future years by contacting the companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear on page 32.
The financial statements, the directors report and the directors remuneration report are contained in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
The auditors report on the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report, which is unqualified, is also contained within the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
The auditors report did not contain a statement under either section 237 2 of the Companies Act 1985 inadequate accounting records or returns or section 237 3 failure to obtain certain necessary information and explanations.
Independent auditors statement to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the summary consolidated income statement, summary consolidated balance sheet, summary consolidated cash flow statement and the summary directors remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised annual review in accordance with United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the summarised annual review with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the summarised annual review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the directors remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, UK 5 June 2007 Severn Trent 29 Summary consolidated income statement Year ended 31 March 2007 2007 2006 restated m m Turnover 1,480.2 1,455.3 Operating costs before exceptional items 1,074.9 1,062.3 Exceptional restructuring costs and termination of operations 14.9 7.9 Exceptional demerger costs 16.7 7.8 Total operating costs 1,106.5 1,078.0 Exceptional profit on disposal of property and businesses 56.3 Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items 405.3 393.0 Exceptional items 24.7 15.7 Profit before interest and tax 430.0 377.3 Finance income 86.3 72.9 Finance costs 240.1 236.8 Net finance costs before fair value movements on treasury instruments 153.8 163.9 Fair value movements on treasury instruments 48.8 36.7 Total net finance costs 105.0 200.6 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 0.5 1.1 Profit before tax, fair value movements on treasury instruments and exceptional items 252.0 230.2 Exceptional items 24.7 15.7 Fair value movements on treasury instruments 48.8 36.7 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 325.5 177.8 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities current tax 58.5 61.5 deferred tax 18.4 7.3 Total taxation 76.9 54.2 Profit for the period from continuing operations 248.6 123.6 Discontinued operations Profit for the period from discontinued operations 20.0 99.4 Profit for the period 268.6 223.0 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 267.1 221.6 Equity minority interests 1.5 1.4 268.6 223.0 Earnings per share pence From continuing operations Basic 106.1 52.9 Diluted 105.1 52.4 From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 114.7 95.9 Diluted 113.6 95.1 30 Severn Trent Annual Review 2007 Summary financial statement Summary group balance sheet At 31 March 2007 2007 2006 m m Non current assets 5,682.1 6,395.3 Current assets 566.8 689.3 Assets held for sale 41.5 Total assets 6,248.9 7,126.1 Current liabilities 1,169.7 1,570.6 Non current liabilities 3,941.9 3,656.5 Total liabilities 5,111.6 5,227.1 Net assets 1,137.3 1,899.0 Equity attributable to the companys equity shareholders 1,134.2 1,896.4 Minority interest 3.1 2.6 Total equity 1,137.3 1,899.0 Signed on behalf of the board who approved the accounts on 5 June 2007 Sir John Egan Michael McKeon Chairman Group Finance Director Summary group cash flow statement Year ended 31 March 2007 2007 2006 m m Net cash generated from operating activities 377.8 506.1 Net cash generated from investing activities 207.1 389.6 Net cash used in financing activities 135.1 72.4 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 35.6 44.1 Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 110.4 64.4 Effect of foreign exchange rates 2.9 1.9 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 143.1 110.4 Severn Trent 31 Information for Shareholders Financial calendar and results announcements You should also contact the registrar if you would like to have your Annual General Meeting dividends paid directly into your bank or building society account.
