Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group or Shire develop and markets products for specialty physicians.
The Group focuses on four therapeutic areas: ADHD, GI, HGT and renal.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated under the Companies Act 1985 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Hampshire International Business Park, Chineham, Basingstoke, Hampshire, United Kingdom, RG24 8EP.
Exchangeable shares are included as part of shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the Groups capital structure.
Further details are included in Note 31.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
At the date of authorization of these financial statements, there were Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective which have not been applied.
Further details are included in Note 3.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
a Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, as modified for the revaluation of certain available-for-sale financial assets and certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions or estimates are critical to the consolidated financial statements are discussed in Note 4. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity concerned, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group, and are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value at the date of exchange of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired together with liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition under IFRS 3, Business Combinations IFRS 3 assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between companies in the Group are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealized losses on transactions between companies in the Group are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but not the control or joint control over those policies.
In general this power would be evidenced by a shareholding in an entity entitling the Group to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights of that entity.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognized at cost.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognized in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognized in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any unsecured receivables due from that associate, the Group does not recognize such excess losses, unless, and to the extent it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate.
Unrealized losses between the Group and its associates are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by the equity method.
c Foreign currency translation Functional and presentational currency Items included in the individual financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the individual entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of each of the Groups entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions in question.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from translation to the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement.
Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued a assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date the closing rate : b income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the period the average rate unless this average rate is not a reasonable approximation of the rate prevailing on the transaction date, in which case income and expenses are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the relevant transaction : and c all resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investments in foreign operations, and of monetary items forming part of the net investment in a foreign operation are taken to shareholders equity.
When an entity of the Group is sold, any such exchange differences are recognized in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or business are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity and are re-translated at the closing rate.
d Revenue recognition The company recognizes revenue when: there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered: the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and collectability is reasonably assured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of value added tax and similar taxes and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future events, future performance or refund obligations.
The Groups principal revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments are set out below: Product sales Revenue for the sales of products is recognized upon shipment to customers or at the time of delivery depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
The Group monitors and tracks the amount of sales deductions based on historical experience to estimate the amount of reduction to revenue.
Licensing and development fees Licensing and development fees represent revenues derived from product out-licensing agreements and from contract research and development agreements.
Initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing agreements, even where such fees are non-refundable and not creditable against future royalty payments, are deferred and recognized over the period of the license term, or the period of the associated collaborative assistance if that period is reasonably estimable.
In circumstances where initial license fees are not for a defined period, revenues are deferred until the period of associated collaborative assistance is either reasonably estimable or any performance obligations are inconsequential: thereafter revenues are deferred and recognized over the period to the expiration of the relevant patent to which the license relates.
Revenue from contract research and development agreements is recognized as the services are performed.
Milestones During the term of certain research and development agreements and licensing agreements, the Group receives non-refundable milestones as certain technical and regulatory targets are achieved.
Revenue 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued is recognized upon achievement of such milestones or over the relevant performance period if the Group has substantive performance obligations.
The Group also receives non-refundable clinical milestones when certain targets are achieved during the clinical phases of development, such as the submission of clinical data to a regulatory authority.
These clinical milestones are either recognized when receivable i. e. on completion of the relevant phase or over the relevant performance period if the Group has substantive performance obligations.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
Royalty income Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product.
The Group receives sales information from the licensee on a monthly basis.
For any period that the information is not available, the Group estimates sales amounts based on the historical product information.
Interest income Interest income is recognized on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding using the effective interest method.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognized when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
e Sales deductions Rebates Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales, with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
Returns The Group estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, specific factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
Coupons The Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An accrual is established based on the Groups expectation of the level of coupon redemption, using historical trends.
Discounts The Group offers cash discounts to customers for the early payment of trade receivables.
Those discounts are recorded as reductions to revenue and accounts receivable in the same period that the related sale is recorded.
Wholesaler chargebacks The Group has contractual agreements whereby it supplies certain products to third parties at predetermined prices.
Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are reimbursed by the Group if the predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Group.
Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Where the expenditure constitutes repairs and maintenance, this expenditure is charged to the income statement during the financial period in which it is incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the difference between the cost of each asset and its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Land n a Buildings 20-50 years Furniture and fittings 3-10 years Equipment and other 3-10 years Motor vehicles 4-5 years Residual values and the useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount of the relevant asset, and such gains and losses are included in the income statement.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets: or over the term of the relevant lease, whichever is shorter.
Properties in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognized impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs capitalized in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
g Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment revenues earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
h Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognized immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cashgenerating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
These cash-generating units 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management purposes.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate, jointly controlled entity or business, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Research and development Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred.
Internal development costs are recognized as intangible assets when an asset is created that can be identified, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group and costs can be measured reliably.
The Group considers that regulatory and other uncertainties inherent in the development of new products mean that such criteria are not met until regulatory approval of the product and therefore, internal development costs incurred prior to regulatory approval of the product are expensed as incurred.
No significant direct development costs are incurred subsequent to regulatory approval.
Where the recognition criteria are met, internal development costs are capitalized and amortized to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives, such amortization commencing from product launch.
Payments to in-license products and compounds from third parties, generally taking the form of up-front payments and subsequent milestones, are capitalized as intangible assets.
Development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in subsequent periods.
Intellectual property Intellectual property, including trademarks, is recognized at purchase cost and amortized in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful life of the product subsequent to its launch generally this estimated useful life does not exceed 20 years.
Intellectual property related to a marketed product can have a useful life exceeding 20 years when the Group believes that the product is well established in its market.
Computer software The costs of acquiring computer software licenses and implementing the specific software are capitalized.
These costs are amortized over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognized as an expense as incurred.
i Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets subject to amortization to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life or which is not yet available for use is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount represents the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre- 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognized as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the extent that a revaluation surplus exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
j Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each reporting date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this latter category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realized within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group allocates derivatives to this category.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those receivables with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
The Group has not allocated any of its financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial instruments that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group allocates all its equity investments which are not investments in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures to this category.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognized on trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognized at their fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value following their initial recognition.
Loans and receivables and held-tomaturity investments are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognized in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated unrealized gains and losses deferred in equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices.
If the market for a financial asset is not active and for unlisted securities, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques unless fair value cannot be reliably measured.
If fair value cannot be reliably measured, such unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such objective evidence of impairment exists for available-forsale financial assets, the cumulative impairment loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognized in the income statement is removed from equity and recognized in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
k Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and such derivative contracts are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
In either the current or prior period the Group has not designated any of its derivatives as a hedging instrument and therefore none of the Groups derivatives qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized immediately in the income statement.
l Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalized at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the future minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the underlying liability to the lessor and the associated finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the balance of the underlying liability.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in Other borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement, or capitalized if the finance costs are directly attributable to qualifying assets in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
m Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value except when acquired in connection with a business combination.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued n Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
o Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Restricted cash is carried in the balance sheet at cost.
Restricted cash comprises reserve funds and collateral required for financial guarantees and certain leased assets.
p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds of issuance other than where the issue of new shares or options relates to the acquisition of a business, in which case such incremental costs are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Where any company in the Group purchases Shire plcs equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are canceled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
q Borrowings Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Convertible bonds On issue the Company bifurcates convertible bonds into their debt and equity components.
The fair value of the debt component is estimated using the market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
The amount allocated to the debt component is classified as a liability and measured on an amortized cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds of issuing the convertible bond is allocated to the equity component, which represents the conversion option, and is classified in shareholders equity, net of any income tax effects.
Issue costs incurred in respect of the convertible bonds are allocated to the liability and equity elements pro-rata to the fair value of each component.
The carrying amount of the equity component is not re-measured in subsequent periods.
r Taxation The tax credit expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted or substantially enacted tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realized.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
s Employee benefits Retirement obligations defined contribution plans The Group operates personal defined contribution plans for employees.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed percentage contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
Retirement obligations defined benefit plans The Group operates defined benefit plans, Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans SERPs, for certain senior employees.
The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of these plans shown in Note 28 is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date.
Assets relating to a closed defined benefit plan are held in a Rabbi Trust, the legal form of which is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Group on winding up and are therefore shown on the balance sheet Note 24.
Changes in the present value of the benefit obligation are recognized in the income statement.
Further information on the Groups defined benefit plans can be found in Note 30 Retirement obligations.
Share-based compensation The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2, Sharebased Payment IFRS 2.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after November 7, 2002 that were unvested at December 31, 2004.
The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The grant date fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is calculated using the BlackScholes model for awards without market based performance conditions.
Awards with market based performance conditions are valued using a binomial model.
The fair value as determined at grant date is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the options, based on the 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Groups estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of nonmarket based vesting conditions.
The Group also provides employees with the option to purchase ordinary shares of Shire: a under the Sharesave Scheme at an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees: and 1. b under the Employee Share Purchase Plan at an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognizes termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: i terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or ii providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
t Provisions Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated and, for a restructuring, when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been communicated to affected parties.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
u Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
This occurs in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders, or in the case of an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid.
v Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is considered met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of initial classification.
w Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued y Reclassifications Costs of $7.2 million, predominately relating to manufacturing set-up costs for new products, have been reclassified from Research and development to Cost of sales for the year to December 31, 2007.
Amounts of $6.4 million for the year to December 31, 2006 have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation.
Adoption of new and revised accounting standards In the current year the Group has adopted the following new and revised accounting standards: IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures: IFRS 8, Operating Segments: the amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements: capital disclosures: and IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the amendment to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided with respect to the Groups financial instruments and the management of capital see Note 27.
As outlined in Note 5, the Group has early adopted IFRS 8, as permitted by the standard.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 8 has been to introduce additional segmental disclosures, to identify the Groups segments based upon the internal reports that are regularly reviewed by the Groups chief operating decision maker CODM and for the amounts to be reported in respect of each segment to be based upon the measure reported to the CODM for the purpose of allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance.
The disclosures required by IFRS 8 for the current and comparative year are included in Note 5.
In addition the Group has elected to adopt IAS 23 revised, Borrowing Costs.
The revisions to IAS 23, the major change, to which being the removal of the option to expense all borrowing costs as incurred, has had no impact on the Groups accounting policies as the Group had previously elected to capitalize borrowing costs incurred on qualifying assets.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 2, Share-based Payment: Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRS 3 R, Business Combinations IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IFRIC 11, IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction The Group is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of the above standards and interpretations will have on the Groups financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
i Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 2.
In these impairment tests the Group determines the recoverable 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued amounts of cash-generating units using value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
The Group determines the recoverable amount of cash-generating units on a value-in-use basis using discounted cash flow models.
These estimates require assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inflows and outflows, risk, the cost of capital and terminal values.
Each of these assumptions is significant to the value of the cash-generating unit.
A prolonged general economic downturn, new products, loss of intellectual property IP protection, sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, competitive pricing, could create an imbalance of industry supply and demand, or otherwise diminish volumes or profits.
Such events, combined with changes in interest rates, could adversely affect the Groups valuation of the estimated future net cash flows generated by its cash-generating units.
As a result, future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by additional impairment charges related to the recoverability of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $2,254.0 million 2006: $1,805.9 million, after an impairment charge of $133.7 million 2006: $271.9 million was recognized during 2007.
Details of the impairment calculation are provided in Note 17. ii Valuation of intangible assets - general The Group has previously acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets, recorded at acquisition cost or appraised fair value if acquired through a business combination see iii below and subsequently amortized over the assets useful economic life.
Managements estimate of the useful life considers, inter alia, the following factors: the expected use of the asset by the Group: any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit the useful life and the effects of demand: competition: levels of maintenance expenditure required: and other economic factors such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels.
There is a high occurrence of transactions involving the transfer of intangible assets between companies in the pharmaceutical industry, and the valuation of these intangible assets are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis.
The Group uses a discounted cash flow model to value intangible assets acquired through business combinations, which requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inflows and outflows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values.
Each of these assumptions is significant to the value of the intangible asset.
The Group engages independent valuation experts who review these critical assumptions for significant acquisitions of intangible assets.
The Group reviews intangible assets for impairment, if there is an indication of impairment or annually if required, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36.
A prolonged general economic downturn, new products, loss of IP protection, sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, competitive pricing, could create an imbalance of industry supply and demand, or otherwise diminish volumes or profits.
Such events, combined with changes in interest rates, and changes to or the potential failure of the development project to which the intangible asset relates, could adversely affect the Groups valuation of the estimated future net cash flows generated by its intangible assets.
As a result, future operating results could be materially and adversely affected by impairment charges related to the recoverability of intangible assets.
In the year to December 31, 2007 changes to the estimated future net cash flows from certain products resulted in a $256.8 million impairment of intangible assets 2006: $1.1 million.
These impairments are discussed in detail in Note 18.
The total carrying amount of intangible assets, excluding goodwill, at the balance sheet date was $4,501.2 million.
Further details of intangible asset movements in the year can be found in Note 18. iii Valuation of intangible assets TKT and New River acquisitions The fair values of all of the identifiable intangible assets acquired through the acquisition of TKT and New River have been determined using an income approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method, by independent valuation experts.
This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows either generated or saved as a result of ownership of 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued the intellectual property, the customer relationships and the other intangible assets.
These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams.
In respect of the intangible assets acquired with New River, as Shire has a pre-existing collaboration agreement with New River and IFRS 3, Business Combinations, does not contain specific guidance for accounting for combinations in which the acquirer has a pre-existing relationship with the acquired, Shire has analogized the multiple element approach outlined under IFRS and specific US GAAP pronouncements to determine the appropriate accounting and valuation of their intangible assets see Note 12 and iv below.
Accordingly the valuation of intangible assets acquired with New River assumes that, consistent with the specific US GAAP guidance contained in Emerging Issues Task Force EITF 04-1, Accounting for Pre-Existing Relationships Between Parties to a Business Combination EITF 04- 1, the effective settlement of the pre-existing relationship has occurred and the Group has purchased 100% of the forecast future cash flows in respect of the acquired intangible assets, see iv below.
The forecast of future cash flows requires various assumptions to be made, including: revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property associated with the products: cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: general and administrative expenses: research and development expenses: the estimated life of the products: and the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant purchasing the assets piecemeal.
The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by the Groups management.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows.
The Group reviews intangible assets for impairment periodically using discounted cash flow approach to determine the assets recoverable amount, whenever events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of the intangible asset is not recoverable, or annually if required by IAS 36.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible asset is less than its carrying value, the intangible asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
When cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest cash-generating unit for which cash flows are identifiable.
iv Business combinations New River acquisition The acquisition of New River has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the Group has measured the cost of the business combination as the aggregate of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from New River at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values, together with any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty apart from the valuation of intangible assets, including the valuation of in-process R&D acquired see Note 12 include the valuation of the Groups effective settlement of its pre-existing relationship with New River.
Prior to the acquisition of New River in April 2007, Shire entered into a collaboration agreement with New River which governed the development, manufacture and commercialization of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in the US the US Collaboration Agreement and rest of the world RoW territories, the RoW Territory License Agreement, together the New River Collaboration Agreements.
Shire paid an initial sum of $50 million to New River in January 2005 on signing the New River Collaboration Agreements and a further $50 million was paid by Shire to New River following acceptance 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued of the filing of a New Drug Application NDA by the FDA in January 2006: these amounts were capitalized as other intangible assets in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Further details on the New River Collaboration Agreements can be found in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report.
As Shire had a pre-existing relationship with New River, Shire has applied EITF 04-1 in accounting for the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements.
EITF 04-1 requires a business combination in which the acquirer and acquiree have a pre-existing relationship to be treated as a multiple element transaction, with one element being the business combination, and the other element being the effective settlement of the pre-existing relationship.
In accordance with EITF 04-1, the effective settlement of an executory contract in a business combination as a result of a pre-existing relationship should be measured at the lesser of: the amount by which the contract is favorable or unfavorable from the perspective of the acquirer when compared to pricing for current market transactions for the same or similar items: or any stated settlement provisions in the contract available to the counterparty to which the contract is unfavorable.
The Group has measured the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements resulting from its pre-existing relationship with New River and has determined that, in respect of the US Collaboration Agreement, it was less favorable to the Group when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items.
The Group determined that RoW Territory License Agreement was at current market rates.
Although the US Collaboration Agreement is deemed less favorable to the Group at the time of the acquisition when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items, the Group has not adjusted its purchase price for New River to reflect any loss resulting from this effective settlement, as settlement provisions in the US Collaboration Agreement available to the Group would have enabled effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements at no cost to the Group.
However, as outlined in Note 12, the Group has recognized a charge of $100.0 million in the year to December 31, 2007 in respect of the write-off of intangible assets existing at the time of this effective settlement.
The valuation of the existing New River Collaboration Agreements and a current market transaction required the Group to exercise significant judgment: the Group considers that critical estimates used to value the existing and current market contract include i estimates of the forecast future cash flows for VYVANSE, the specific assumptions used to determine forecast future cash flows being outlined in ii and iii above, ii estimates of the a market value profit share or royalty rate for a current market contract for an approved product, and iii estimates of a market royalty rate for the unapproved RoW indication.
The valuation of both the existing New River Collaboration Agreement and a current market transaction involved a number of inter-relating assumptions, such that the Group does not consider it meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption.
The valuation of the existing New River Collaboration Agreements and a current market comparator has been based on information at the time of the acquisition and expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by Shires management, and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions or events will occur as projected.
TKT acquisition The acquisition of TKT has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the Group has measured the cost of the business combination as the aggregate of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from TKT at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values, and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty apart from the valuation of intangible assets, including the valuation of in-process R&D acquired see Note 4 iii include, based on managements best estimates the valuation of inventory acquired with TKT and the amount payable to those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights in relation to the Groups acquisition of TKT on July 27, 2005.
In respect of the inventory acquired with TKT, finished goods were fair valued at estimated selling price less the sum of costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort of the Group.
The Groups management assumed that a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort of the acquiring entity would be 3% of sales proceeds expected at the acquisition date.
This is due to the 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued minimal sales effort required by Shire as acquiror to realize sales of the acquired inventory, given the small size of the existing prescription population to whom specialized physicians prescribe REPLAGAL, the frequency and duration of treatment required, and low levels of patient switching, together with the low cost and complexity of distribution.
The relevance of this assumption is that it has an impact on the recorded cost of sales for acquired REPLAGAL inventory.
For every one percentage point increase in the profit allowance percentage for the selling effort, our cost of sales in the year to December 31, 2006 would have reduced by approximately $0.6 million.
All REPLAGAL inventories acquired as part of the TKT acquisition had been consumed by December 31, 2006.
Work in-process was fair valued on the same basis less costs to complete.
The valuation of acquired work in process required Shires management to estimate the level of completion reached at the acquisition date.
This required the exercise of judgment in ascribing value creation to different phases of a complex biological manufacturing process.
The relevance of this estimate is that it has an impact on the recorded cost of sales for acquired REPLAGAL inventory.
For every one percentage point increase in the assumed percentage level of completion, our cost of sales in the year to December 31, 2006 would have increased by $0.5 million.
All REPLAGAL work in process acquired as part of the TKT acquisition had been consumed by December 31, 2006. v Valuation of financial assets and equity accounted investments The Group has investments in certain public and private pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and partnerships.
These investments are designated as either available-for-sale, investments in joint ventures or investments in associates.
Those investments designated as available-for-sale are held at fair value, in accordance with IAS 39, with any unrealized movements in fair value being recognized directly within equity.
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method, with the Groups share or profit or loss after tax presented as a separate item on the face of the income statement.
The carrying values of these investments are periodically reviewed for impairments whenever certain events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an investment exceeds the fair market value of the investment.
Indicators providing objective evidence of impairment include: i the market value of a quoted investment being below the carrying value of the investment for an extended period: ii adverse news on a companys progress in scientific technology development of compounds: and iii recent stock issuances at a price below the investment price.
If the fair value appears to be below the carrying value of an investment the Group considers all available evidence in assessing whether there is objective evidence of impairment.
This evidence would include: i the level of progress in the investees scientific technology development of compound: ii ongoing activity in collaborations with the investee: iii whether or not other substantial investee-specific adverse events have occurred which may cause a decline in value: iv analysis and valuation of comparable companies: and v the overall financial condition of the investee.
In instances when the review indicates that there is impairment, the Group writes down the investment to its fair market value, recording an impairment charge, which includes any unrealized losses on availablefor-sale securities previously recorded directly to equity, in the income statement.
During the year to December 31, 2007 Shire recorded impairment charges in respect of available sale investments of $3.0 million 2006: $2.1 million.
108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued vi Sales deductions Sales deductions consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid and other government agencies, contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations HMOs, product returns, sales discounts including trade discounts and distribution service fees, wholesaler chargebacks, and allowances for the coupon sampling program.
These deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales with estimates of future utilization derived from historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves.
The Group has the following significant categories of sales deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgments which the Group considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require the Group to use information from external sources: Medicaid and HMO Rebates Statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates to HMOs under managed care programs are based on statutory or negotiated discounts to the selling price.
Medicaid rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product if prices increase faster than inflation.
As it can take up to six months for information to reach the Group on actual usage of the Groups products in managed care and Medicaid programs and on the total discounts to be reimbursed, the Group maintains reserves for amounts payable under these programs relating to sold products.
The amount of the reserve is based on historical experience of rebates, the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement claims, changes in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or negotiated prices, changes in prescription demand patterns, and the levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers including data provided by wholesalers as part of the new fee for service agreements and third-party prescription data such as IMS Health National Prescription Audit data.
Revisions or clarification of guidelines from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMS related to state Medicaid and other government program reimbursement practices with retroactive application can result in changes to managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
However, since the prices of the Shires products are fixed at the time of sale and the quantum of rebates is therefore reasonably determinable at the outset of each transaction, these factors would not impact the recording of revenues in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and HMO rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and Medicaid agency or HMO.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the effect of uncertainties, as a whole, significantly impacts the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
As at the balance sheet date accruals for Medicaid and HMO rebates were $146.6 million in 2007 and $126.4 million in 2006, representing between 7-8% of net product sales in each year.
Product Returns The Group typically accepts customer product returns in the following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life, b product damaged while in the possession of the Group, or c under sales terms that allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales.
The Group estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return by considering relevant factors, including: past product returns activity: the duration of time taken for products to be returned: the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued product recalls and discontinuances: the shelf life of products: the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and the loss of patent protection or new competition.
Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers, third-party prescription data and, for some product return provisions, market research of retail pharmacies.
Returns for new products are more difficult for the Group to estimate than for established products.
For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a new product which are typically guaranteed sales, as the Group cannot reliably determine customer acceptance of the new products, the Groups policy is therefore to defer recognition of the sales revenue until there is evidence of end-patient acceptance primarily third-party prescription data.
For shipments after launch under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed sales, the Groups initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products shortly after launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns of the product are available, the returns provision is based on this data and any other relevant factors as noted above.
The accrual estimation process for product returns involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and customer.
As at the balance sheet date, provisions for product returns were $39.5 million in 2007 and $36.5 million in 2006 representing 2% of net product sales in each year.
Sales coupon accrual For certain products, primarily DAYTRANA, LIALDA and VYVANSE and formerly ADDERALL XR, the Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
These coupons reimburse part or all of the cost of the first prescription.
Each coupon can only be used once and coupons typically expire three to fifteen months after the date of issuance.
The Groups management calculates an accrual for the estimated value of coupons that will be redeemed against sold products, based on the rebate value per coupon, the timing and volume of coupon distributions, the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel and expected coupon redemption rates, using historical trends and experience.
Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers and third-party prescription data.
Shire believes that historical redemption rates, adjusted for known changes in coupon programs such as length of coupon life and redemption conditions are an appropriate basis for predicting future redemption rates.
For coupon programs open at December 31, 2007 the redemption rates assumed by Shire range between 15% and 35% of coupons distributed depending on the life of the coupons.
A one percentage point increase in estimated coupon redemption rates would increase the provision at December 31, 2007 by $0.2 million.
At December 31, 2007 the accrual for coupon redemptions was $9.0 million 2006: $13.0 million.
The accrual levels in each year fluctuate according to the timing and volume of coupon distributions, in addition to changes in estimated redemption rates.
For rebates, returns and sales coupons the actual experience and the level of these deductions to revenue may deviate from the estimate.
Shire reviews its estimates every quarter and may be required to adjust the estimate in a subsequent period.
Historically, actual payments have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued vii Income taxes The Group operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
Because the Group operates globally, the nature of tax positions taken are often very complex and subject to change and the amounts at issue can be substantial.
The Group uses internal expertise, experience, judgment and assistance from professional advisors to minimize audit adjustments where possible and estimate income taxes payable for probable liabilities.
Estimates are refined as additional information becomes known.
Any outcome upon settlement that differs from Shires best estimate may result in additional or lower tax expense in future periods.
Income taxes payable increased from $295.3 million at December 31, 2006 to $390.2 million at December 31, 2007 primarily as a result of additional tax contingencies recognized in relation to ongoing tax audits.
The Group also has significant deferred tax assets due to net operating losses NOLs in the United States, UK and other jurisdictions.
The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on the generation of sufficient taxable income in the future.
Management has exercised judgement in determining the extent of the realization of these losses based upon estimates of future taxable income in the various jurisdictions in which these NOLs exist.
Where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilize these NOLs, no deferred tax asset in respect of these NOLs is recognized.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, the subsequent recognition or fide-recognition of deferred tax assets could materially impact the Groups financial position and results.
At December 31, 2007 the Group had gross deferred tax assets of $609.0 million 2006: $519.9 million.
viii Litigation The Group accounts for litigation losses in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Under IAS 37, provisions are recorded for probable litigation losses when management is able to reliably estimate the loss.
The amount recognized as a provision is managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date: in other words the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or transfer it to a third party at that time.
These estimates are developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information becomes known.
In instances where there is a continuous range of possible outcomes and each point in that range is as likely as any other, the mid-point of the range is recorded as a loss.
The best estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the Groups best estimate may result in an additional expense in a future accounting period.
There were no significant changes in estimates in respect of product liability claim provisions in the year to December 31, 2007.
During the year to December 31, 2007 the Group recognized a net increase in its provision for litigation losses of $51.6 million, primarily as result of the recognition of a $50.0 million provision regarding an agreement in principle to settle the TKT class action securities lawsuit relating to REPLAGAL, and a $10.0 million release of existing litigation provisions.
The Group also recognized a receivable of $23.0 million in respect of the contribution of the Groups insurers towards the settlement of the TKT class action securities lawsuit relating to REPLAGAL.
ix Share-based compensation Shire plc has historically granted options to the Groups directors and employees over ordinary shares under seven stock option plans.
On November 28, 2005 the ordinary shareholders of Shire plc approved the adoption of the Shire plc Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B, a new share-based compensation plan, which provides for stock settled share appreciation rights and performance share awards to be made to the directors and employees over ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares.
Further details on these plans can be found in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report.
The Group accounts for share based compensation in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment.
111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group measures share-based compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and recognizes the cost as an expense on a straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures over the employee requisite service period.
The Group measures share-based compensation cost for awards classified as liabilities at fair value, which is re-measured at the end of each reporting period.
The Group estimates the fair value of share-based awards without market-based performance conditions using a Black-Scholes valuation model and awards with marketbased performance conditions are valued using a binomial valuation model.
Several critical assumptions are made in the determination of the Groups share-based compensation cost.
The Group believes that the most critical assumptions are the expected life of the award and the weighted average volatility of the Shires shares.
Other assumptions made by the Group in respect of the determination of share-based compensation cost include the risk free rate, the expected dividend yield and the expected forfeiture rate.
The Groups estimate of the expected life of the award is based on the simplified method and the weighted average volatility is based upon historical share price data of the Companys shares for the requisite expected life of the awards.
Given the related nature of each of the assumptions underlying the valuation of share-based payment awards, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for each individual assumption.
The Group believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires share-based payment awards.
Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the Group under IFRS 2.
Segment information The Group has early adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 in the year to December 31, 2007 in advance of its effective date, as permitted by the standard.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the CODM which is used to allocate resources to the segments and to assess performance.
Prior to the early adoption of IFRS 8 the Group applied IAS 14, Segment Reporting IAS 14, which required the Group to identify two sets of segments, business and geographical, based upon a risk and rewards approach.
Pursuant to IAS 14 the Group had previously identified two segments, Pharmaceutical Products and Royalties.
Following the adoption of IFRS 8, the identification of the Groups operating segments has changed.
IFRS 8 establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments and related disclosures in respect of products and services, geographic areas and major customers.
Under IFRS 8 operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the CODM in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
During 2007 Shire began internal financial reporting in line with a business unit and management reporting structure based on two segments: Specialty Pharmaceuticals SP and Human Genetic Therapies HGT.
The SP and HGT segments represent the Companys revenues and costs in respect of currently promoted and sold products, together with the costs of developing products for future commercialization.
All Other has been included in the table below in order to reconcile the segments to the total consolidated figures as reviewed by the CODM.
The segments reviewed by the CODM are prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States US GAAP : in order therefore to reconcile the financial information regularly reviewed by the CODM to the results as prepared under IFRS included in these financial statements, the adjustments column below includes the adjustments required to reconcile from US GAAP to IFRS.
The Group evaluates performance based on revenue and operating profit loss.
The Group does not have inter-segment transactions.
Information relating to the Groups operating segments is included below.
Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the requirements of IFRS 8.
112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Adjust- 2007 SP HGT All Other Sub-total ments Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Total revenues continuing 1,855.6 330.0 250.7 2,436.3 - 2,436.3 operations Operating loss profit 1,374.2 52.8 47.9 1,379.1 1,449.3 70.2 Investment revenues 50.6 Finance costs 93.1 Other income expense, net 1.9 Share of post tax loss profit from: -Associates 4.7 -Joint ventures 6.5 Profit before taxation 31.4 Tax credit 51.0 Profit for the year from continuing operations 82.4 Other information Depreciation and amortization 96.2 45.4 18.9 160.5 38.5 199.0 Impairment charges 1.8 - - 1.8 390.5 392.3 Gain on sale of product rights 127.8 - - 127.8 24.9 102.9 Balance sheet Total assets 2,394.5 586.6 1,349.0 4,330.1 4,564.8 8,894.9 1 Long-lived assets 174.8 114.6 79.2 368.6 6,700.4 7,069.0 Capital expenditure on long- 1 lived assets 37.3 77.5 27.9 142.7 155.2 297.9 1 Long-lived assets predominately relate to property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and goodwill.
Adjustments Operating loss profit Principal adjustments to reconcile the operating loss under US GAAP to the operating profit under IFRS include: i in respect of the acquisition of New River, IPR&D totaling $1,866.4 million relating to VYVANSE for the treatment of non-pediatric patients in the US and VYVANSE in the RoW has been capitalized as an intangible asset under IFRS.
As required under US GAAP the value ascribed to these IPR&D projects has been expensed as research and development costs as of the acquisition date: ii the impairment of goodwill of $133.7 million 2006: $271.9 million see Note 17 under IFRS, not recorded under US GAAP.
The impairment relates to the goodwill recognized under IFRS for the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. : this goodwill was not recorded under US GAAP as the 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued treatment of the combination as a pooling of interests under US GAAP resulted in no goodwill arising: iii the impairment of intangible assets under IFRS of $256.8 million 2006:$1.1million see Note 18 these assets are not recognized on the US GAAP balance sheet as these assets were expensed as a research and development cost under US GAAP: iv capitalization as intangible assets of upfront and milestone payments in respect of in-licensed technology under IFRS of $147.8 million 2006: $80.5 million : the payments have been expensed as research and development costs under US GAAP: v a charge under IFRS of $100.0 million arising on effective settlement of the Groups pre-existing relationship with New River, in respect of the write-off of up-front and milestone payments capitalized under IFRS as intangible assets see Note 12 no loss was recorded under US GAAP as these payments had been expensed as a research and development cost in 2005 and 2006: and vi other differences including goodwill allocated to the gain on disposal of product rights, adjustments to goodwill relating to prior years acquisitions, the amortization of intangible assets capitalized under IFRS and not US GAAP, accruals for payroll taxes on share options and share based payment charges.
Adjustments Other information Principal adjustments to reconcile the other information presented under US GAAP to the other information presented under IFRS include: i the amortization of intangible assets capitalized under IFRS.
No amortization is recorded under US GAAP as a result of these assets being expensed as research and development costs at the time of their acquisition.
ii the impairment of goodwill of $133.7 million 2006: $271.9 million see Note 17 under IFRS, not recorded under US GAAP and the impairment of intangible assets under IFRS of $256.8 million 2006: $nil see Note 18 not recognized on the US GAAP see ii and iii above.
iii the gain on sale of product rights includes an incremental $24.9 million 2006:$nil of goodwill allocated to the disposal under IFRS compared to US GAAP.
See Note 7 for further details.
Adjustments Balance sheet Principal adjustments to reconcile Total assets, Long-lived assets and capital expenditure on long-lived assets under US GAAP to IFRS include: i other intangible assets recognized under IFRS totaling $2,736.8 million 2006: $985.3 million principally in respect of IPR&D acquired with New River and TKT and capitalized up-front and milestone payments in respect of in-licensed technology.
As required by US GAAP these amounts were expensed as a research and development costs at the time of their acquisition: and ii additional goodwill recognized under IFRS totaling $2,034.6 million 2006: $1,568.5 million compared to US GAAP as the relevant business combinations under US GAAP were a treated as a pooling of interests with no goodwill arising b gave rise to negative goodwill on the business combination New River and c differences in the purchase price allocation in respect to deferred taxes arising on the recognition of IPR&D New River and TKT led to incremental goodwill being recognized under IFRS.
114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Sub - Adjust- 1 2006 SP HGT All Other Total ments Total $M $M $M $M $M $M Total revenues continuing operations 1,412.8 143.1 240.6 1,796.5 - 1,796.5 Operating profit loss 343.3 151.8 91.7 283.2 192.3 90.9 Investment revenues 50.5 Finance costs 27.0 Other income expense, net 9.4 Share of post tax loss profit from: -Associates 0.5 -Joint ventures 6.3 129.6 Profit before taxation Tax expense 114.0 Profit for the year from 15.6 continuing operations Discontinued operations 40.6 Profit for the year 56.2 Other information Depreciation and amortization 49.4 40.9 15.2 105.5 16.4 121.9 Impairment charges 1.1 - - 1.1 271.9 273.0 Gain on sale of product rights 63.0 - - 63.0 - 63.0 Balance sheet Total assets 1,168.9 547.4 1,610.1 3,326.4 2,370.2 5,696.6 2 Long-lived assets 160.8 63.9 80.5 305.2 3,519.8 3,825.0 Capital expenditure on long-lived 1 assets 51.4 21.9 35.0 108.3 166.1 274.4 1 For details of the adjustments see above.
2 Long-lived assets predominately relate to property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and goodwill.
115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Geographic Information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : Year to December 31, 2007 2006 $M $M United Kingdom 177.0 187.5 North America 1,798.2 1,341.0 Rest of World 461.1 268.0 Total 2,436.3 1,796.5 Long-lived assets all non-current assets, excluding deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefits arise : Year to December 31, 2007 2006 $M $M United Kingdom 75.8 154.4 North America 5,651.2 2,277.9 Rest of World 1,342.0 1,392.7 Total 7,069.0 3,825.0 Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, all within the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment, accounted for greater than 10% of the Companys total revenues: Year to December 31, 2007 2007 2006 2006 $M % revenue $M % revenue Cardinal Health Inc. 865.1 36 665.0 37 McKesson Corp. 709.1 29 439.8 24 Amerisource Bergen Corp. 251.6 10 172.5 10 Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 $M $M Cardinal Health Inc. 102.9 57.6 McKesson Corp. 79.6 42.2 Amerisource Bergen Corp. 26.7 13.4 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Revenues An analysis of the Groups revenue is below is below: Year to December 31, 2007 2006 $M $M Product sales 2,170.2 1,535.8 Royalties 247.2 242.9 Other including licencing and development income 18.9 17.8 Total 2,436.3 1,796.5 Revenues by product In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2007 2006 $M $M Specialty Pharmaceuticals ADDERALL XR 1,030.9 863.6 ADDERALL 23.6 - CALCICHEW 54.2 45.5 CARBATROL 72.3 68.3 DAYTRANA 64.2 25.1 DYNEPO 14.2 - FOSRENOL 44.8 102.2 LIALDA 50.5 - PENTASA 176.4 137.8 REMINYL 31.2 21.5 VYVANSE 76.5 - XAGRID 66.8 53.3 Other 105.1 111.0 1,844.5 1,394.5 Human Genetics Therapies ELAPRASE 181.8 23.6 REPLAGAL 143.9 117.7 325.7 141.3 2,170.2 1,535.8 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Profit for the year 2007 2006 $M $M The following items have been included in arriving at the profit from continuing operations: Staff costs: - Wages and salaries 433.4 306.6 - Social security costs 31.2 25.0 - Pensions costs defined contribution plans 21.3 13.2 - Pensions costs defined benefit plans 1.1 1.9 - Share based payments to directors and employees 73.6 20.4 560.6 367.1 Inventories: - Cost of inventories recognized as expense included in cost of sales 261.3 198.2 - Inventory write down included in cost of sales 7.8 19.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: - Owned assets 45.9 36.9 - Under finance leases 4.7 3.5 Impairment of goodwill 133.7 271.9 Impairment of other intangible assets included in: - research and development expenses 256.4 - - selling, general and administrative expenses 0.4 1.1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1.8 0.4 Amortization of intangible assets all acquired included in: - cost of sales 1.2 - - selling, general and administrative expenses 81.5 147.3 Operating lease rentals: - Property, plant and machinery 22.5 18.5 - Other 1.5 1.3 Gain on sale of product rights 102.9 63.0 Profit on disposal of financial assets - 0.1 Impairment of financial assets 3.0 2.1 Net foreign exchange losses 3.1 0.8 Integration costs 4.0 5.6 Auditors remuneration for audit services 2.6 3.6 The profit for the financial year under UK GAAP dealt with in the accounts of the Company was $21.6 million 2006: $15.3 million loss.
As provided by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no profit and loss account is presented in respect of the Company accounts shown on pages 182 to 193.
118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Auditors remuneration The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Year to December 31, 2007 2006 $M $M Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit for the 1 2.7 Companys Annual Report 1.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: 1 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.9 0.7 Total audit fees 3.6 2.6 2 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3 3 Tax services 1.0 1.1 4 Other services 0.4 0.5 Corporate finance services 1.2 - Total non-audit fees 3.0 1.9 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Groups external auditor can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits and included the audit of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over 10-K financial reporting.
2 Other services consist of work generally only the Groups external auditor can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
3 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
4 All other fees relate to assisting the remuneration committee and corporate responsibility.
A description of the work of the audit committee is set out in the Audit Compliance and Risk Committee Report on pages 62 to 66.
Gain on sale of product rights During 2007 the Group commenced a process to dispose of certain products that are no longer core to Shires strategy.
Disposal of non-core products to Laboratorios Almirall S. A. Almirall On December 18, 2007 the Group received cash consideration of $209.6 million, net of costs of $2.2 million arising on the transfer of product licenses, in respect of the divestment of a portfolio of its noncore products, including SOLARAZE and VANIQA, to Almirall.
The Group has recognized gains in respect of these divested product rights when the relevant regulatory or other consents for the transfer of these product rights have been obtained.
At December 31, 2007, a gain of $89.9 million has been recognized and assets and liabilities with a carrying value of $91.5 million, including goodwill, intangibles, inventory, have been disposed of.
Proceeds of $32.7 million included within the $209.6 million above have been recorded as a deposit within current liabilities for products where the relevant regulatory authorizations and other consents have not been obtained at December 31, 2007.
119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Disposal of EQUETRO In September 2007 Shire sold EQUETRO to Validus Pharmaceuticals Inc. Validus for a cash consideration of $7.5 million, resulting in a gain of $7.1 million being recorded in the year to December 31, 2007.
Other disposals In 2007 Shire also received cash consideration of $11.2 million in respect of the divestment of other noncore products resulting in a gain of $5.9 million being recorded.
Further cash consideration of $6.1 million has been received for divested non-core products, which has been recorded as a deposit within current liabilities until the relevant regulatory authorizations for the products are transferred.
See Note 25 for further information.
Disposal of ADDERALL In September 2006, Shire disposed of its ADDERALL immediate release mixed amphetamine sales product to Duramed Pharmaceuticals Inc, Duramed for $63.0 million in cash, resulting in a gain of $63.0 million being recorded.
All assets disposed of during 2007 and 2006 formed part of the Speciality Pharmaceuticals segment.
Investment revenues 2007 2006 $M $M 50.6 50.5 Interest on bank deposits and managed cash funds 9.
Finance costs 2007 2006 $M $M Interest expense and similar charges: 1 - Convertible bonds See Note 26 43.6 - - Bank interest 6.4 - - Interest provision for dissenting shareholders see Note 12, 36 27.9 24.6 - Amortization of deferred financing charges 9.4 - - Obligations under finance leases 0.8 0.5 - Other interest payable 5.0 1.9 93.1 27.0 All items relate materially to continuing operations.
1 Interest charged represents the accrued coupon at 2.75% and amortization of issue costs and discount on issue.
120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Other income expense, net 2007 2006 $M $M - Impairment of long-term investments 3.0 2.1 - GeneChem Funds management fee 3.6 4.6 - Gain on sale of available for sale financial asset 0.1 - - Foreign exchange loss gain 0.8 3.1 - Gain on derivative financial assets - 0.7 - Other 1.3 3.8 1.9 9.4 11.
Taxation 2007 2006 $M $M Analysis of credit expense in the year Current tax expense - Continuing operations 88.1 223.0 Deferred tax credit Note 20 - Continuing operations 139.1 109.0 Tax credit expense 51.0 114.0 UK Corporation tax is calculated at 30% 2006: 30% of the estimated assessable profit in the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The effective tax rate for the year was -162%.
The difference between this and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% is explained below: 2007 2006 $M $M Profit on ordinary activities before tax 31.4 129.6 % % Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2006: 30% 30.0 30.0 Effects of: - Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 1.3 16.6 - Permanent differences 238.2 51.7 - Movement on deferred tax 22.4 70.2 - Different tax rates on overseas earnings 202.6 17.1 - Tax contingencies 108.5 146.2 - Non deductible goodwill 127.4 63.0 - Change in tax rates 27.9 - - Other 36.1 4.4 Effective tax rate for the year 162.0 88.0 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group earns profits in various territories, which have different tax rates compared to the UK.
The tax credit for the year to December 31, 2007 consists of a UK taxation charge of $56.3 million 2006: $43.4 million credit and overseas tax credit of $107.3 million 2006: $157.4 million expense.
The effective tax rate for the year to December 31, 2007 was -162% 2006: 88%.
The negative tax rate for 2007 has primarily arisen as a result of lower profit before tax in 2007 compared to 2006, $98.2 million or 76% lower, combined with an overall tax credit of $51.0 million in 2007 2006: $114.0 million charge.
The tax credit in 2007 has resulted from the release of deferred tax liabilities following other intangible asset impairments recognized in 2007, and the increasingly favorable impact of permanent differences in 2007 over 2006.
In 2007 and 2006 the Group recorded impairment charges in respect of goodwill relating to Shire Canada Inc. formerly Shire BioChem Inc. of $133.7 million 2006: $271.9 million : no tax deduction is available on this goodwill impairment.
Excluding the goodwill impairment the effective tax rate is -31%, 2006: 28%.
The variation in the mix of profits from the jurisdictions in which the Group operates has contributed to the lower effective tax rate in 2007.
The increased favorable effect of the difference in tax rates has resulted from the deferred tax credit arising from the impairment of other intangible assets and the effective settlement of the Groups pre-existing relationship with New River.
The deferred tax liability in respect of these assets was originally recorded at rates in excess of the Groups statutory rate.
Additionally, the effective tax rate in 2007 compared to 2006 has benefited from a reduced charge in respect of tax contingencies of $34.0 million 2006: $187.0 million and an increase in favorable permanent differences.
These benefits were partially offset by the adverse impact of the movement of deferred taxes, as in 2006 the Group recognized deferred tax assets in relation to the UK, US and certain European affiliates.
The Group recognized these assets primarily following the implementation of tax planning strategies during the year to December 31, 2006 and revisions to projections of future earnings in certain European jurisdictions.
Permanent differences The permanent differences include: the tax effect of the gain on disposal of product rights: an increase in research and development tax credits received by the Group following the acquisition of TKT in July 2005 and non taxable capital receipts following an internal reorganization in late 2005.
Tax contingencies The increase in tax contingencies during 2007 is in relation to potential transfer pricing adjustments and the deductibility of expenses and availability of certain tax reliefs, which is partially offset by a reduction in the provision as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations of $38.3 million.
The increase in tax contingencies during 2006 was primarily a result of additional tax contingencies of $187.0 million recognized in 2006 as a result of the Group's assessment of the implications of ongoing audits by tax authorities.
The tax audits commenced in 2004 and relate to the years 1999 to 2006, covering a range of issues including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss carry-forwards, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
The Group had recognized a $53.0 million contingency in respect of these tax audits at December 31, 2005, based on managements assessment of the probability of additional taxation payments at that time.
However, during 2006 the tax authorities expanded the scope of their enquiries and proposed adjustments to certain tax positions previously filed by the Group.
At this point, the Group retained third party advisors to assess the merits, quantum and implications of the adjustments proposed by the tax authorities, and to assist management in determining whether or not additional tax payments in excess of the existing provision of $53.0 million was probable.
Upon completion of the Groups review of these proposed adjustments, including receipt of the expert third partys advice, the Group found it appropriate to recognize the additional tax contingencies of $187.0 million, which included an estimate of potential interest due in respect of potential unpaid taxes.
Following the recognition of these additional tax contingencies in 2006, the provision in respect of these ongoing tax audits totaled $240.0 million.
122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12. Business acquisitions TKT acquisition On July 27, 2005 the Group completed its acquisition of TKT in an all-cash transaction.
The acquisition was effected by merging a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire with and into TKT, with TKT continuing as the surviving corporation.
As consideration, the Group paid to TKTs stockholders $37 in cash for each share of TKT common stock outstanding at the time of the acquisition, less any applicable withholding taxes.
As at December 31, 2007 shareholders owning approximately 24.8 million TKT shares being 69% of the 36.2 million TKT shares outstanding at the acquisition date had accepted the offer and $917.9 million has been paid to them: $83.9 million was paid in connection with TKT stock options: and $170.1 million in connection with convertible notes outstanding at the date of acquisition.
These amounts were paid in the year to December 31, 2005.
In connection with the acquisition, as at December 31, 2007 the former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands for appraisal of these shares and elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
To the extent that these demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and these holders perfect their rights there under, such holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of their shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value of the TKT shares will be made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
The Delaware Court of Chancery may ascribe a valuation to the shares that is greater than, less than or equal to $37 per share and may award interest on the amount determined in the appraisal process.
Shire has recognized a liability in respect of the fair value of the consideration in respect of those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights based on $37 per share for the 11.3 million shares outstanding at that time.
As at December 31, 2007 the liability in respect of those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights was $419.9 million plus a provision for interest of $60.3 million that may be awarded by the court.
New River Acquisition On April 19, 2007 Shire completed its acquisition of New River by way of a short-form merger, in an allcash transaction.
The acquisition was effected by merging Shuttle Corporation, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Shire, with and into New River, with New River continuing as the surviving corporation.
As consideration, Shire paid to New Rivers shareholders $64 in cash for each share of New River common stock outstanding at the time of the acquisition.
The acquisition of New River allows Shire to capture the full economic value of VYVANSE, and gain control of the future development and commercialization of this product.
VYVANSE for ADHD in pediatric patients was approved by the FDA on February 23, 2007 and Shire received notification from the DEA of the final Schedule II classification for VYVANSE on May 3, 2007.
The acquisition of New River has been accounted for as a purchase business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of New River are recorded at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The financial statements of Shire issued after the completion of the acquisition reflect these fair values, with the results of New River being included within the Consolidated Income Statement from April 19, 2007.
Total consideration, including amounts payable in respect of stock options, share appreciation rights SARs, warrants over New Rivers common stock and costs directly attributable to the business combination was approximately $2.6 billion at the price of $64 per share of New Rivers common stock, as analyzed below: 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued $M Cash consideration for 37.1 million outstanding shares of New River common stock at $64 per share net of 1.5 million of common stock 1 repurchased through a prepaid forward purchase contract 2,276.0 Cash cost of settling New Rivers stock options and SARs 124.5 Cash cost for settling sold warrants over 4.0 million shares of New Rivers common stock 133.0 Direct acquisition costs 61.0 2,594.5 1 New River entered into this prepaid forward purchase contract with Merrill Lynch in July 2006.
Accounting for the Effective Settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreement Prior to the acquisition of New River, on January 31, 2005 Shire entered into a collaboration agreement with New River which governed the development, manufacture and commercialization of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in the US and rest of the world territories.
In March 2005, this collaboration agreement was split into two separate agreements, the US Collaboration Agreement and the RoW Territory License Agreement together the New River Collaboration Agreements.
Under the terms of the New River Collaboration Agreements, the parties were required to collaborate on the development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of VYVANSE in the US.
Profits from the collaboration arising in the US were to be divided according to a predetermined formula, based on the scheduling of VYVANSE by the DEA.
Post-approval milestones were due under the New River Collaboration Agreements if the product received favorable scheduling schedule III, IV or V or unscheduled and on the achievement of certain sales milestones.
Through the New River Collaboration Agreements Shire also acquired the license in the RoW territory to develop and commercialize VYVANSE, in consideration of a low double-digit royalty.
Shire paid an initial sum of $50 million to New River in January 2005 on signing the original collaboration agreement and a further $50 million was paid by Shire to New River following acceptance of the filing of a New Drug Application NDA by the FDA in January 2006.
These payments were capitalized by Shire as intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
As at the acquisition date, no amortization had been recorded in respect of these intangible assets as they were not yet available for use as final DEA scheduling was yet to be received.
As Shire has a pre-existing relationship with New River, Shire has accounted for the acquisition of New River as a multiple element transaction, with one element being the business combination and one element being the effective settlement of Shires pre-existing relationship with New River.
As no specific guidance exists under IFRS 3 Business Combinations governing the accounting for business combinations when a pre-existing relationship is present, Shire has analogised the multiple element approach as outlined in IAS 18, Revenue, together with specific guidance in US GAAP in respect of accounting for business combinations when pre-existing relationships exist as outlined in Emerging Issue Task Force 04-1, Accounting for Pre-existing Relationships between the Parties to a Business Combination EITF 04-1.
In accounting for the New River acquisition under IFRS, Shire has therefore applied the principles outlined in EITF 04-1 in accounting for the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements.
In accordance with the principles of EITF 04-1, Shire has measured the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements resulting from its pre-existing relationship with New River and has determined that, in respect of the US Collaboration Agreement, it was less favorable to Shire when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items.
The RoW Territory License Agreement was determined to be at current market rates.
The valuation of the New River Collaboration Agreements and their current market comparators has been based upon information available at the time 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued of the acquisition and using the expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by Shires management.
The US Collaboration Agreement was deemed less favorable to Shire at the time of the acquisition when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items: Shire has recorded a charge of $100.0 million in the Consolidated income statement together with related tax effects of $32.7 million, to write down the value of capitalized upfront and milestone payments in respect of the New River Collaboration Agreement, on the effective settlement of the pre-existing relationship in the.
Shire did not adjust the purchase price for New River to reflect any loss resulting from this effective settlement because settlement provisions in the US Collaboration Agreement available to the Group would have enabled effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreement at no cost to the Group.
However, no charge has been recorded in respect of the RoW Territory License Agreement, as Shire has determined that this agreement was stated at current market rates.
Purchase price allocation Shire's cost of acquiring New River of approximately $2.6 billion has been allocated on a preliminary basis to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed according to their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
The final determination of these fair values will be completed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
To the extent that these preliminary estimates of the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed need to be adjusted, Shire will do so in accordance with IFRS 3.
125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The following table presents Shires preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair values.
Fair Value Fair Value Book Value Adjustments $M $M $M Non-current assets: Other intangible assets, net - Intellectual property - developed technology - 1,133.3 1,133.3 - Favorable manufacturing contracts - 9.2 9.2 - In process research and development - 1,943.3 1,943.3 Property, plant and equipment, net 2.6 1.8 0.8 Deferred tax assets, non-current 1.1 52.4 53.5 Current assets: Inventories 4.8 6.6 11.4 Accounts receivable, net 0.3 - 0.3 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 2.4 2.2 0.2 Purchased call option 141.8 - 141.8 Short-term investments 55.8 - 55.8 Cash and cash equivalents 74.9 - 74.9 Non-current liabilities: Sold warrants 133.0 133.0 - Deferred income, non-current 59.5 59.5 - Deferred tax liability, non-current 1.1 1,109.5 1,110.6 Current liabilities: Convertible loan notes 279.4 - 279.4 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 33.3 1.6 31.7 Deferred income, current 3.1 3.1 - Accrued share based payment liability 122.9 122.9 - Net assets acquired at fair value 348.6 2,351.4 2,002.8 Goodwill 591.7 2,594.5 Total consideration satisfied by: Cash including $61.0 million of direct costs of acquisition 2,594.5 Fair value adjustments primarily relate to: the recognition of intangible assets totaling $3,085.8 million, primarily represented by developed technology in respect of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric patients in the US $1,133.3 million and in-process research and development in respect of VYVANSE for nonpediatric patients in the US and VYVANSE in the RoW $1,943.3 million : deferred tax liabilities of $1,110.6 million primarily in respect of temporary differences relating to recognized intangible assets: and 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued elimination of liabilities relating to deferred revenue in respect of the New River Collaboration Agreements, $62.6 million, sold warrants $133.0 million and share based payment liabilities relating to cash settled SARs $122.9 million.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of New River primarily results from anticipated operating synergies from the combination.
The Group has not disclosed the amount of New Rivers profit and loss included in the consolidated income statement for the period subsequent to the acquisition as the New River legal entity was merged into the Groups operations subsequent to the acquisition such that disclosure of this amount is impracticable.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of 2007, Group revenues for the period to December 31, 2007 would have been $2,436.3 million, and the Groups loss before tax from continuing operations would have been $67.6 million.
This reflects the results of the combined entity adjusted for financing costs, the amortization of intangible assets and share based compensation costs as if the acquisition completed on January 1, 2007.
The results of New River for the year to December 31, 2007 as included within the pro-forma results of the combined entity include a non-recurring charge of $82.8 million relating to New Rivers cash settled SARs which were extinguished as a result of the acquisition.
The pro-forma results of the combined entity include the following adjustments: i an adjustment to eliminate the revenues recognized by New River of $3.0 million for the year to December 31, 2007 in connection with the New River Collaboration Agreements: ii an adjustment to increase interest expense by $25.3 million for the year to December 31, 2007 to reflect the interest expense and amortization of deferred issue costs associated with the $1,300 million drawn down under the Facilities Agreement which was entered into by Shire on February 21, 2007 for the purpose of financing the acquisition of New River: iii an adjustment to decrease interest income by $6.5 million for the year to December 31, 2007 to reflect the interest foregone on the Groups cash resources used to part finance the acquisition of New River: and iv an adjustment to increase amortization expense based on the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets from the purchase price allocation, which are being amortized over their estimated useful lives over a range of 5 to 20 years, of $29.2 million for the year to December 31, 2007.
The pro-forma information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that actually would have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of that time, nor is it intended to be a projection of future results.
127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13. Business integration Integration costs of $4.0 million in connection with the Groups acquisition of New River have been incurred in the year to December 31, 2007.
At December 31, 2007 the integration of New River was completed and no further integrations costs will be incurred.
In connection with the Groups acquisition of TKT in July 2005, the Groups management approved and initiated plans to restructure the operations of the enlarged Group to eliminate duplicate facilities and reduce costs.
Integration costs represent incremental costs incurred by the Group directly related to the absorption of the TKT business into the Group, including expenditures for consulting and systems integration.
The charges have been presented within selling, general and administrative expenses in the income statement and are accounted for solely within the HGT operating segment.
No further integration costs were incurred in the year to December 31, 2007 and the remaining amounts outstanding as at December 31, 2006 have been paid during the year to December 31, 2007.
Integration costs expensed in the year to December 31, 2007: Paid in year to Opening December 31, Closing liability 2007 liability $M $M $M Retention payments for key TKT employees 2.7 2.7 - Information technology costs 0.1 0.1 - 2.8 2.8 - Integration costs expensed in the year to December 31, 2006: Costs recorded Paid in in year to year to Opening December 31, December 31, Closing liability 2006 2006 liability $M $M $M $M Retention payments for key TKT employees 5.9 3.0 6.2 2.7 Information technology costs - 1.2 1.1 0.1 Other 0.21.4 1.6 - 6.1 5.6 8.9 2.8 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Discontinued operations On September 9, 2004 Shire completed the disposition of its vaccines business to ID Biomedical Corporation IDB.
The total consideration for the sale was $120 million comprising $30 million of cash received at completion, $30 million of cash held in escrow and due on the first anniversary of completion and $60 million received at completion in the form of 4,931,864 subscription receipts of IDB.
If, prior to January 10, 2005, IDB were to raise up to $60 million from equity related issuances, then it was required under the terms of the sale agreement to redeem the subscription receipts from Shire for $60 million.
Accordingly, following the completion of such a fund raising on January 7, 2005, IDB redeemed the subscription receipts from Shire for $60 million in cash.
On the first anniversary of completion, Shire received the $30 million of cash held in escrow.
As part of the transaction, Shire entered into an agreement to provide IDB with a loan facility of up to $100 million, which could be drawn down over the four years following completion.
As at December 31, 2005, IDB had drawn down the entire $100 million loan.
It was required that this facility be used by IDB to fund the development of injectable flu and pipeline products within the vaccines business acquired from Shire.
Drawings under the loan facility were segregated into two components: i drawings for injectable flu development of $70.6 million repayable out of income generated by IDB on future non-Canadian injectable flu products, subject to minimum annual repayments in respect of the first $30 million of the drawing, to be made between 2007 and 2017: and ii drawings for pipeline development of $29.4 million repayable out of income generated by IDB on future pipeline products and have no fixed repayment schedule.
The transaction gave rise to an overall loss on disposition of the vaccines business of $41.1 million, recorded as a loss on disposition at completion in 2004 of $44.2 million and a subsequent provision release of $3.1 million being recognized during the year to December 31, 2005.
This net loss on disposition of $41.1 million comprised a gain on disposition of net assets of $28.9 million together with a provision for a loss of $70 million out of the $100 million loan facility available to IDB.
This provision was made on the basis that those loan repayments based solely on future sales of flu and pipeline products in development provided no certainty of recovery.
The historical consolidated financial statements reflect the vaccines business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
On February 14, 2006 the Group received $78.7 million from IDB, being the full repayment of the $70.6 million injectable flu development drawings, together with accrued interest of $8.1 million.
The repayment followed GSKs acquisition of IDB, after which IDB was provided with resources by GSK to fund the early repayment of the injectable flu tranche.
The $29.4 million pipeline development tranche of the loan facility is still outstanding and is fully provided against.
At the time of the disposal, a provision of $70.0 million was charged to discontinued operations on the basis that there was no certainty of recovery of this amount.
The $70.0 million provision was allocated against all of the pipeline development tranche $29.4 million and against $40.6 million of the $70.6 million injectable flu development tranche.
Accordingly, the $78.7 million received was recorded as follows: a gain on disposition of discontinued operations of $40.6 million being the amount previously provided against the injectable flu development tranche : settlement of the loan receivable balance of $31.6 million being the unprovided component of the injectable flu development loan, plus recognized and accrued interest : and interest income of $6.5 million being interest earned in the year of $1.0 million and $5.5 million of interest earned but provided for in previous periods.
The repayment of the $70.6 million injectable flu tranche had no tax effect.
There were no further developments in respect of the $29.4 million outstanding tranche of the IDB loan.
129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Dividends 2007 2006 $M $M Equity shares: - Interim dividend of 2.69 pence 5.25 cents equivalent per share paid in April 2007 2006: 2.54 pence, paid in April 2006 4.42 cents equivalent 29.5 22.6 - Interim dividend of 1.05 pence 2.15 cents equivalent per share paid in October 2007 2006: 1.05 pence, paid in October 2006 1.93 cents equivalent 11.8 9.8 41.3 32.4 In accordance with IAS10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the proposed second interim dividend of 3.3151 pence 6.4690 cents equivalent per share has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The Board has resolved to pay the dividend on April 3, 2008 to persons whose names appear on the register of members of the Group at the close of business on March 14, 2008.
Shire Acquisition Inc. has during 2007 paid dividends totaling CAD $317,542.
These dividends qualify as eligible dividends under sub section 89 1 of the Income Tax Act Canada and hence would be eligible for the enhanced gross up and dividend tax credit afforded to eligible dividends paid by resident Canadian corporations.
Earnings per ordinary share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust Note 33, which are treated as canceled.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the year to December 31, 2007 share options to purchase approximately 2.9 million ordinary shares 2006: 7.7 million and the weighted average number of ordinary shares underlying the convertible bonds of 21.2 million 2006: nil were not dilutive and were therefore excluded from the computation of diluted EPS.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2007 $M shares amount Basic EPS Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 82.4 540,266,664 15.3c Effect of dilutive securities Share options - 8,475,852 0.3c Warrants - 311,761 - Diluted EPS 82.4 549,054,277 15.0c 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2006 $M shares Amount Basic EPS Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 56.2 503,359,162 11.2c Effect of dilutive securities - Share options 5,324,980 0.2c - Warrants 601,485 - Diluted EPS 56.2 509,285,627 11.0c Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations: Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2007 $M shares amount Basic EPS Profit from continuing operations 82.4 540,266,664 15.3c Diluted EPS Profit from continuing operations 82.4 549,054,277 15.0c Weighted average Earnings number of Per share 2006 $M shares amount Basic EPS Profit from continuing operations 15.6 503,359,162 3.1c Gain from discontinued operations 40.6 503,359,162 8.1c Diluted EPS Profit from continuing operations 15.6509,285,627 3.0c Gain from discontinued operations 40.6509,285,627 8.0c 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Goodwill 2007 2006 $M $M Cost At January 1, 4,389.2 4,392.3 Recognized on acquisition of subsidiary 591.7 0.6 Adjustments relating to prior year acquisitions 11.0 3.7 Transferred to held for sale 5.5 - Disposals 29.9 - Exchange differences 23.3 - 4,957.8 4,389.2 Accumulated impairment losses At January 1, 2,583.3 2,313.8 Impairment 133.7 271.9 Exchange differences 13.2 2.4 2,703.8 2,583.3 Net book value December 31, 2,254.0 1,805.9 Acquisitions During the year to December 31, 2007 the Group recognized goodwill of $591.7 million on acquisition of New River see Note 12.
This goodwill is recorded in the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment.
Adjustments relating to goodwill arising on the acquisition of TKT of $11.0 million 2006: $3.7 million have been recorded as a result of the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect to acquired net operating losses.
Impairments During the year to December 31, 2007 an impairment charge of $133.7 million 2006: $271.9 million was made in relation to goodwill arising on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc.
The recoverable value of the cash-generating unit to which the business relates was determined based on value-in-use calculations using discounted pre-tax cash flows.
The impairment charge is included within selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
A range of pre-tax discount rates between 13% - 15% was applied to probability-adjusted forecasts.
The impairment charge recognized during 2007 primarily reflected the after tax value of 3TC and Zeffix royalty income received during the year ended December 31, 2007.
Disposals The Group has disposed of $29.9 million of goodwill 2006: $nil with respect to the disposal of product rights to Almirall see Note 7 and has reclassified to assets held for sale $5.5 million of goodwill 2006: $nil for other products disposed of to Almirall where recognition of the disposal is dependent on the transfer of relevant regulatory or other consents.
132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: Specialty 2007 Pharmaceutical HGT All other Total $M $M $M $M North America 1,212.5 314.8 433.5 1,960.8 Rest of the world - 0.6 292.6 293.2 Total 1,212.5 315.4 726.1 2,254.0 Specialty 2006 Pharmaceutical HGT All other Total $M$M $M $M North America 653.7 325.7 494.0 1,473.4 Rest of the world - 0.6 331.9 332.5 Total 653.7 326.3 825.9 1,805.9 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations generally use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering up to seven years, however for certain CGUs, projections of up to thirteen years are used to fully model relevant product lifecycles.
Cash flows beyond the projected forecast period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below.
The growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for relevant territories in which the CGU operates.
Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations: Specialty Specialty 1 1 pharma HGT All other pharma HGT All other 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2 Gross margin 84%-87% 86%-91% n a 73%-88% 88%-92% n a 3 Growth rate 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 4 Discount rate 13% 13% 10%-15% 15% 15% 13% 1 Gross margin for All other is not considered by the Group to be a key assumption as revenue and income primarily relates to the royalty stream.
3 Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the projection period of 13 years as appropriate.
4 Pre-tax discount rate applied to pre tax cash flows.
Management determined budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The discount rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments.
133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Other intangible assets Intellectual Software and property other Total $M $M $M Cost At January 1, 2007 2,059.5 65.7 2,125.2 Additions 180.9 23.6 204.5 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 3,085.8 - 3,085.8 Disposals 76.4 2.6 79.0 Transferred to held for sale 20.9 - 20.9 Write-off in relation to the effective settlement of the pre-existing relationship with New River.
These assets relate to IPR&D $1,943.3 million, intellectual property $1,133.3 million and favorable manufacturing contracts $9.2 million.
Other additions of $204.5 million to other intangible assets, primarily relating to upfront and milestone payments relating to in-licencing technology were also recorded during the year to December 31, 2007.
The weighted average amortization period of these assets is 18 years.
During the year to December 31, 2007 the Group recognized impairment charges of $256.8 million, 2006: $1.1 million for certain of the Groups IPR&D and intellectual property intangible assets.
The Group has recognized a charge of $205.0 million in relation to IPR&D for DYNEPO principally in respect of the oncology indication.
The impairment was recognized following the Groups reconsideration of the commercial viability of DYNEPO for this indication now that the recommendations of the EMEA safety review of all EU approved erythropoietins have been received.
Scientific Advice meetings have been arranged with a number of regulatory authorities to discuss this.
Given the safety concerns raised recently regarding the use of erythropoiesis stimulating agents ESAs in the treatment of anaemia in oncology treated patients, regulatory authorities are requesting that all ESA companies conduct significant long-term post approval clinical observation studies in this patient population.
Although the Group is currently reconsidering the commercial viability of the oncology indication for DYNEPO, the Group considers it unlikely that it will pursue the indication for commercialization and has fully impaired the DYNEPO IPR&D.
The resulting impairment charge of $205.0 million has been recognized in the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment.
Other impairment charges of $51.8 million 2006: $1.1 million in respect of other IPR&D and intellectual property assets principally relate to: REPLAGAL in the US market due to changes to the development program required to obtain approval of the product: and SPD 493 formerly known as Valrocemide and SPD 500 Tissue protective cytokine technology as a result of the cessation of the development of these in-licensed compounds by the Group as they have failed to demonstrate sufficient differentiation.
In accordance with IAS 36, the Group will continue to review the circumstances surrounding the commercial viability and development of these intangible assets.
If circumstances change, the Group may recognize the reversal of these impairment losses in future periods.
135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
All motor vehicles are held under finance leases.
Freehold land, amounting to $12.1 million 2006: $12.1 million for the Group has not been depreciated.
Depreciation expense of $5.0 million 2006: $4.8 million has been charged in cost of sales, and $45.5 million 2006: $35.6 million in selling, general and administrative expenses.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset is realized.
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
Share ACA STTD based Intangible 1 Tax losses payments assets Total 2007 $M $M $M $M $M Deferred tax asset at January 1, 2007 161.3 258.5 23.6 76.5 519.9 Deferred tax liability at - 10.2 - 536.9 547.1 January 1, 2007 Credit to the Income statement 97.6 92.6 7.2 134.2 146.4 Credit to equity 15.3 3.3 5.5 - 17.5 Effect of the rate change in the income statement 5.5 0.5 0.5 1.8 7.3 Acquisition of subsidiary 53.5 - - 1,110.6 1,057.1 Exchange differences 4.6 0.1 - 2.7 7.2 Deferred tax asset at 326.8 181.4 35.8 69.3 613.3 December 31, 2007 - 28.6 - 1,505.2 1,533.8 Deferred tax liability at December 31, 2007 1 Accelerated capital allowances short-term timing differences.
137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Share based Intangible 2006 Tax losses ACA STTD payments assets Total $M $M $M $M $M Deferred tax asset at January 1, 2006 140.6 190.1 10.3 73.3 414.3 Deferred tax liability at January 1, 2006 - 28.3 - 538.4 566.7 Credit to the income statement 19.5 86.9 7.3 4.7 109.0 Credit to equity - - 4.6 - 4.6 Exchange differences 1.2 0.4 1.4 9.4 11.6 Deferred tax asset at December 31, 2006 161.3 258.5 23.6 76.5 519.9 Deferred tax liability at December 31, 2006 - 10.2 - 536.9 547.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are as follows: 2007 2006 $M $M Deferred tax assets 173.4 120.0 Deferred tax liabilities 1,093.9 147.2 920.5 27.2 At December 31, 2007 based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income, management believes it is more likely than not that the Group will realize the benefits of the recognized deferred tax assets.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if estimates of taxable income are revised.
2007 2006 Unrecognized deferred tax assets: $M $M Tax losses 70.8 63.9 Other timing differences 24.5 45.7 95.4 109.6 At December 31, 2007 the Group has not made a UK provision on approximately $2.8 billion 2006: $2.1 billion of unremitted earnings of its international subsidiaries.
The Group does not provide for income taxes on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries located outside of the UK, where such earnings have been retained indefinitely for reinvestment, or where it is managements decision that the earnings will be remitted in a tax free jurisdiction or dividends from these will be substantially offset by foreign tax credits.
138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Investments accounted for using equity method Joint Associates ventures Total 2007 $M $M $M At January 1, 2007 17.7 6.5 24.2 Additions 3.3 - 3.3 Share of post tax loss profit 4.7 6.5 1.8 Dividends received 2.2 6.8 9.0 Exchange differences 3.2 1.4 4.6 At December 31, 2007 17.3 7.6 24.9 Joint Associates ventures Total $M $M $M 2006 At January 1, 2006 17.1 5.9 23.0 Additions 1.4- 1.4 Share of post tax profit 0.5 6.3 5.8 Dividends received 0.3 5.8 6.1 Exchange differences - 0.1 0.1 17.7 6.5 24.2 At December 31, 2006 Investments in joint ventures consist of a 50% share of the commercialization partnership with GlaxoSmithKline GSK, through which the products 3TC and ZEFFIX are marketed in Canada.
Investments in associates consist primarily of investments in the GeneChem Technologies Venture Fund and the GeneChem Therapeutics Venture Fund together The Funds.
The Funds are limited partnerships with a December 31 year-end formed under the laws of the Province of Quebec, Canada, investing in healthcare research and development companies, in which the Group owns 30% GeneChem Technologies Venture Fund and 11% GeneChem Therapeutics Venture Fund respectively.
At December 31, 2007 the Funds net assets totaled approximately $88.8 million 2006: $72.0 million.
The Group is involved as a limited partner and is the general partner of the Funds: the Groups involvement in the Funds dates from between 1997 and 2000.
The Groups exposure to loss as a result of its involvement with the Funds is limited to the carrying value of the investment, $10.4 million at December 31, 2007 2006: $11.2 million.
The Group has not committed to any further investment in 2007 2006: $1.7 million.
139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Aggregated amounts relating to associates, all of which are unlisted, are shown below: 2007 2006 $M $M Assets 141.5 110.9 Liabilities 0.4 0.2 141.1 110.7 Revenue 1.9 1.0 Post tax loss 19.5 10.7 Aggregated amounts relating to the joint venture are shown below: 2007 2006 $M $M Non-current assets - - Current assets 16.3 13.9 Non-current liabilities - - Current liabilities 1.0 0.9 15.3 13.0 Revenue 38.9 37.6 Operating expenses 25.8 25.0 13.1 12.6 Taxation - - Post tax profit 13.1 12.6 22.
Investments 2006 2007 $M $M Available-for-sale investments Investments in private companies 23.2 15.1 Available-for-sale securities 62.1 16.5 85.3 31.6 The fair value of available-for-sale investments as at December 31, 2007 was $85.3 million 2006: $31.6 million.
140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Available-for-sale investments Investments in private companies During the year to December 31, 2007 additions to investments in private companies included $6.2 million 2006: $8.0 million to ViroChem Pharma Inc. in return for an additional equity interest.
During the year to December 31, 2007 the Group recorded impairments of $nil 2006: $1.8 million against its investments in private companies based on a decline in the estimates of their fair value that the Group believes represents objective evidence of impairments.
The changes in fair values which resulted in write-downs were based on the Groups estimates, derived from financial and other publicly available information such as press releases and recent capital raising activities.
Available-for-sale securities Renovo Group plc Renovo On June 19, 2007 Shire signed a development and license agreement with Renovo Limited, an affiliate of Renovo to develop and commercialize JUVISTA, Renovos novel drug candidate in late Phase 2 development, outside the EU.
In accordance with this agreement, on August 20, 2007 Shire made an equity investment of $50.0 million for 12.4 million ordinary shares in Renovo, which represented 6.5% of the total outstanding shares in Renovo immediately after the issue.
The Group has accounted for this investment as an available for sale security in accordance with IAS 39.
For further information on the development and license agreement, see Note 36.
Avexa Limited Avexa On January 22, 2007 Shire amended its out-license agreement with Avexa relating to the investigational HIV compound SPD754, to extend Avexas exclusive commercialization rights to include the US and Canadian markets.
In return, the Group received an up-front cash payment of $10.0 million, eight million additional Avexa shares valued at $2.9 million taking its shareholding in Avexa to just over 8% and will receive further milestones and royalty payments upon approval and commercialization of the product.
In March 2007, Avexa reported positive Phase 2b results for SPD754 and initiated a capital raising program, including a rights issue, to fund Phase 3 trials.
Shire has fully participated in the rights issue and accordingly has recognized an additional investment of $3.6 million.
During 2007, the Group sold an investment in part of its portfolio of available for sale securities, valued at $0.4 million, realizing a gain on the sale of $0.1 million.
In 2006, there were no sales of available-for-sale securities.
At December 31, 2007 the Group had available-for-sale investments in an unrealized gain position of $7.7 million and one available-for-sale investment Renovo Group plc in an unrealized loss position of $16.9 million for which there existed no objective evidence of impairment.
The Group considers that as at December 31, 2007 there is no objective evidence of impairment as the decline of Renovo Group plcs share price in the fourth quarter of 2007 was related to the results of one clinical trial for JUVISTA, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2007.
The Group considers that, as the clinical trials in multiple other surgery types are continuing and seven other trials have demonstrated statistically significant efficacy, the decline in Renovo Group plcs share price as at December 31, 2007 does not represent objective evidence of impairment.
The fair value of the Groups available-for-sale investment in an unrealized loss position is $33.1 million.
Impairment of available-for-sale securities The Group recorded impairments of $3.0 million against its available-for-sale securities in the year to December 31, 2007 2006: $0.3 million.
141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Inventories 2007 2006 $M $M Raw materials 40.3 21.8 Work in progress 59.2 66.2 Finished goods 67.6 50.1 174.1 131.1 The value of inventories carried at fair value less costs to sell at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $nil.
Trade and other receivables 2007 2006 $M $M Trade receivables 451.3 319.6 Less: provision for impairment 9.8 8.8 Trade receivables net 441.5 310.8 Interest receivable 2.9 3.9 Prepayments and accrued income 38.1 39.0 Other debtors 68.7 44.7 SERP Note 30 7.9 10.0 Total 559.1 408.4 Less: Non-current portion 12.3 15.9 Current portion 543.2 396.1 The movement in the impairment provision is as follows: 2007 2006 $M $M As at January 1, 8.8 9.7 Charged to operations 60.1 47.1 59.1 48.0 Utilization As at December 31, 9.8 8.8 142 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Further details of the SERP asset are provided in Note 30.
The amount shown above is the cash at bank and non-current marketable securities held in a Rabbi Trust.
The legal form of the trust is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Group on winding up.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets and are recorded on the balance sheet.
A related liability is shown in Note 28.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 50 days 2006: 51 days.
An allowance has been made for doubtful accounts and sales discounts of $9.8 million 2006: $10.7 million.
This allowance has been determined by specific review of outstanding receivables at the balance sheet date.
At December 31, 2007 trade receivables of $140.2 million 2006:$ 94.7 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2007 2006 $M $M Up to 3 months past due 85.3 60.1 3 to 6 months past due 13.7 9.7 Over 6 months past due 41.2 24.9 140.2 94.7 25.
Assets held for sale During 2007 Shire commenced a process to dispose of certain products that are no longer core to Shires strategy.
i Disposal of non-core products to Laboratorios Almirall S. A.
On December 18, 2007 the Group completed the divestment of a portfolio of its non-core products, including SOLARAZE and VANIQA, to Almirall for cash consideration of $209.6 million, net of costs of $2.2 million arising on the transfer of product licences.
Proceeds of $32.7 million, included within the $209.6 million, have been recorded as a deposit within trade and other payables until the relevant regulatory or other consents for the transfer of these products are obtained.
The assets related to these product rights to be disposed of have been reclassified to assets held for sale.
At December 31, 2007 assets held for sale included assets with a carrying value of $12.8 million, represented by attributed goodwill of $5.5 million and intangible assets of $7.3 million.
ii Other disposals At December 31, 2007 assets held for sale also included intangible assets with a carrying value of $1.9 million in respect of other non-core product licences held for sale.
In 2007 Shire received cash consideration of $6.4 million in respect of these product licenses, which is recorded as deposits within trade and other payables.
These deposits remain refundable to the purchasers until the relevant regulatory authorizations for the products are transferred expected to occur by the end of H1 2008, upon which an additional gain of approximately $4.2 million will be recorded.
All assets classified as held-for-sale form part of the Speciality Pharmaceuticals segment.
143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Borrowings 2007 2006 $M $M Non-current Finance lease liabilities i 7.9 6.9 Convertible bonds ii 910.2 - 918.1 6.9 Current Finance lease liabilities 4.7 3.5 Total borrowings 922.8 10.4 All borrowings are denominated in US dollars.
i Shire 2.75% Convertible Notes due 2014 On May 9, 2007 Shire plc issued $1,100.0 million in principal amount of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid ordinary shares of Shire plc of par value 0.05 each the Bonds.
The net proceeds of issuing the Bonds, after deducting the commissions and other direct costs of issue, totaled $1,081.7 million.
The Bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount, and unless previously purchased and canceled, redeemed or converted, will be redeemed on May 9, 2014 the Final Maturity Date at their principal amount.
The Bonds bear interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constitute direct, unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu and rateably, without any preference amongst themselves, and equally with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
The Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the Company, the Call Option, at their principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any time after May 23, 2012 if on no less than 20 dealing days in any period of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shire plcs ordinary shares underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 would exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights shall have been exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancellations, and or redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount of Bonds originally issued.
The Bonds may also be redeemed at the option of the Bond holder at their principal amount including accrued but unpaid interest on May 9, 2012 the Put Option, or following the occurrence of change of control.
The Bonds are repayable in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Company to settle redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the Final Maturity Date and following exercise of the Put Option, by delivery of the underlying Shire plc ordinary shares and a cash top-up amount.
The Bonds are convertible into Shire plc ordinary shares during the conversion period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the close of business on the date falling fourteen days prior to the Final Maturity Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption by the Company, the close of business fourteen days before the date fixed for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bond holder giving notice of redemption in accordance with the conditions: and iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds are accelerated by reason of the occurrence of an event of default.
Upon conversion, the Bond holder is entitled to receive Shire plc ordinary shares at the initial conversion price of $33.5879 per Shire plc ordinary share, subject to adjustment as outlined below, being 2,977.26265 shares per $100,000 denomination.
The initial conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any dividend or distribution by the Company, ii a change of control and iii customary antidilution adjustments for, inter alia, share consolidations, share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus 144 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued issues and reorganizations.
The Shares issued on conversion will be delivered credited as fully paid, and will rank pari passu in all respects with all fully paid Shares in issue on the relevant conversion date.
The fair values of the liability component and the equity component were determined at issuance of the Bonds.
The fair value of the liability component was calculated using a market rate for an equivalent nonconvertible bond.
The residual amount, representing the value of the equity conversion option, is included in shareholders equity as a separate reserve.
The value of the Bonds as recognized in the balance sheet is as follows: $M Nominal value of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 1,100.0 Direct costs of issue 18.3 Net proceeds received on issue of the convertible bonds 1,081.7 Equity component 195.6 Liability component at date of issue 886.1 1 Interest charged 43.6 Interest paid 15.1 Liability component at December 31, 2007 914.6 Of which: Non-current liability 910.2 2 Current liability 4.4 Liability component at December 31, 2007 914.6 1 Interest charged represents the accrued coupon and amortization of issue costs and discount.
2 Interest payable represents the coupon of 2.75% on the bonds, payable semi-annually in arrears.
ii Finance leases 2007 2006 $M $M Finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Not later than 1 year 5.1 3.8 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 8.7 7.6 Later than 5 years - - 13.8 11.4 Future finance charges on finance leases 1.2 1.0 Present value of finance lease liabilities 12.6 10.4 The Groups finance leases are in respect of motor vehicles, and do not impose any significant restrictions on the Group.
145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Credit Facilities Multicurrency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement In connection with the acquisition of New River, Shire entered into a Multicurrency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement the Facilities Agreement with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc the Arrangers on February 20, 2007.
The Facilities Agreement comprised three credit facilities: i a committed multicurrency five year term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $1,000.0 million Term Loan A, ii a committed multicurrency 364 day term loan facility with a further 364 day extension option in an aggregate amount of $300.0 million Term Loan B and iii a committed five year revolving loan facility in an aggregate amount of $1,000.0 million the RCF and, together with Term Loan A and Term Loan B, the Facilities.
Shire plc has agreed to act as guarantor for any of its subsidiaries that borrow under the Facilities Agreement.
On April 18, 2007 the Company fully utilized Term Loan A of $1,000.0 million and Term Loan B of $300.0 million to partially fund the acquisition of New River.
In May 2007 Shire issued $1,100.0 million principal amount of the Bonds.
The proceeds of the issue were used to repay and cancel $800.0 million of Term Loan A and all of Term Loan B in accordance with the terms of the Facilities Agreement.
The remaining $200.0 million drawn down under Term Loan A was repaid on June 29, 2007.
The RCF has not been utilized.
On July 19, 2007, the Company entered into a syndication and amendment agreement in relation to the Facilities Agreement the Amended Facilities Agreement, which increased the RCF to an aggregate amount of $1,200.0 million, amended the covenant relating to the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA and syndicated the RCF.
The RCF, which includes a $250.0 million swingline facility, may be used for general corporate purposes and matures on February 20, 2012.
The availability of loans under the RCF is subject to customary conditions, including the absence of any defaults thereunder and the accuracy in all material respects of Shires representations and warranties contained therein.
The interest rate on each loan drawn under the RCF for each interest period, as determined by the Company, is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of the applicable margin initially set at 0.80 per cent per annum until delivery of the compliance certificate for the year ending December 31, 2007 and thereafter ranging from 0.40 to 0.80 per cent per annum, depending on the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA and LIBOR for the applicable interest period.
Shire shall also pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 35 per cent per annum of the applicable margin.
The Amended Facilities Agreement includes requirements that i Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the Amended Facilities Agreement does not exceed 3.5 to 1 for both the 12 month period ending December 31 and June 30 unless Shire has exercised its option which is subject to certain conditions to increase it to 4.0 to 1 for two consecutive testing dates: and ii that the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as defined in the Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0 to 1, for both the 12 month period ending December 31 and June 30, and iii additional limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans, giving of guarantees and granting security over assets.
Upon a change of control of Shire or upon the occurrence of an event of default and the expiration of any applicable cure period, the total commitments under the Facilities may be canceled and or all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued or outstanding may become immediately due and payable.
Events of default under the Amended Facilities Agreement include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the Facilities: ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants: iii material misrepresentation in any of the finance documents: iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults under other financial indebtedness: v certain insolvency events or proceedings: vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition of the group: vii certain US Employee Retirement Income Security Act breaches which would have a material adverse effect: viii if it becomes illegal for Shire or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the Amended Facility Agreement to perform their obligations or ix if Shire or any subsidiary of Shire which is party to the Amended Facility Agreement repudiates the Amended Facility Agreement or any Finance Document as defined in the Amended Facility Agreement.
146 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued During the year ended December 31, 2007 the Group paid $14.5 million for the arrangement of the Facilities of which $9.4 million has been amortized in the year to December 31, 2007 including $7.9 million written off following repayment of Term Loan A and Term Loan B.
The remaining arrangement costs of $5.1 million, which relate to the RCF, have been deferred and are being amortized over the estimated term of the facility $1.2 million within Trade and other receivables and $3.9 million within Other receivables non-current.
147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Risk management and financial instruments Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: credit risk: liquidity risk and market risk including foreign currency exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to economically hedge certain risk exposures.
Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by the Board of Directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
As a matter of policy, the Group does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase currency or interest rate exposure.
Credit risk Financial instruments that potentially expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and trade accounts receivable.
Excess cash is invested in short-term money market instruments, including bank term deposits, money market and liquidity funds.
These investments typically bear minimal risk.
The Groups revenues from product sales are mainly derived from agreements with major pharmaceutical companies and relationships with pharmaceutical wholesale distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
For the year to December 31, 2007 there were three customers in the US who accounted for 75% of the Groups total revenues.
However, such clients typically have significant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered minimal.
The Group has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly defined credit evaluation procedures.
The Group limits exposure to credit risk on counterparties used for cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and derivative financial instruments through a system of internal credit limits which require counterparties to have a long term credit rating of A A1 or better from the major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved by the Board and exposure against these limits is monitored monthly by Group Treasury.
The counterparties to the financial instruments are major international financial institutions.
The credit quality of trade receivables is as follows: 2007 2006 $M $M Counterparties with external credit rating S&P BBB 182.5 99.8 Ba1 26.7 - BBB- - 13.4 209.2 113.2 Counterparties without external credit rating 232.3 197.6 441.5 310.8 Counterparties without external credit ratings are primarily existing customers with no defaults in the past.
148 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The financial exposure of a counterparty is determined as the total of cash and deposits, plus the risk on derivative financial instruments assessed as the fair value of the instrument plus a risk element based on the nominal value and the historic volatility of the market value of the instrument.
Shire does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk.
The maximum credit risk exposure on financial instruments at 31 December 2007 was $1,249.4 million 2006: $1,467.5 million, comprising $762.5 million on cash and cash equivalents 2006: $1,126.9 million, $39.5 million on restricted cash 2006: $29.8 million, $5.9 million on foreign exchange contracts 2006: $nil, and $441.5 million on trade receivables 2006: $310.8 million.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group ordinarily finances its activities through cash generated from operating activities, private and public offerings of equity and debt securities and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals.
The Group anticipates that its operating cash flows together with available cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its anticipated future operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service and lease obligations as they become due over the next twelve months.
Maturity analysis of financial liabilities 2007 Between Greater Less than Between 6-12 Between Between than 5 3 months 3-6 months months 1-3 years 3-5 years years Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Trade payables 77.7 1.7 0.2 - - - 79.6 Other financial i liabilities - - 480.2 - - - 480.2 Finance leases 1.1 1.2 2.4 7.9 - - 12.6 Derivative financial liabilities 2.8 - - - - - 2.8 Convertible ii bonds - - - - - 1,100.0 1,100.0 81.6 2.9 482.8 7.9 - 1,100.0 1,675.2 2006 Trade payables 53.2 1.2 0.1 - - - 54.5 Other financial i liabilities - - 452.3 - - - 452.3 Finance leases 0.9 0.9 1.7 6.9 - - 10.4 Derivative financial liabilities 9.1 - - - - - 9.1 63.2 2.1 454.1 6.9 - - 526.3 i Liability to dissenting shareholders, for further detail see Note 12 and 36. ii Shire 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014, for further detail see Note 26.
149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Market risk Foreign currency exchange risk The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates against the US Dollar for trading transactions and the translation of net assets, liabilities and earnings of non-US subsidiaries.
The main trading currencies of the Group are the US Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, Pounds sterling, the Euro and Swedish Krona.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the subsidiarys functional currency.
The exposure to foreign exchange is managed and monitored by Group Treasury.
Exposures are generally managed through natural hedging via the currency denomination of cash balances.
As at December 31, 2007 the Group had outstanding swap and forward foreign exchange contracts with a total net principal amount of $435.0 million 2006: $98.3 million to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with inter-company loans.
As at December 31, 2007 there were net unrealized gains of $5.4 million 2006: $8.1 million loss on these contracts.
All contracts have an expected contractual maturity of less than 3 months.
Price risk As of December 31, 2007 the Group has $110.2 million 2006: $55.8 million of financial assets comprising equity investments in private companies, publicly quoted equities, institutional cash funds.
The publicly quoted assets are exposed to market risk.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge this risk.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange swaps which are all at floating rate.
This exposure is primarily to US Dollar interest rates.
As the Group maintains all of its investments on a short term basis for liquidity purposes this risk is not actively managed.
In 2007 the average interest rate received on cash and liquid investments was approximately 5.0% per annum 2006: 4.7%.
The largest proportion of investments was in US Dollar money market and liquidity funds.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been entered into to hedge this exposure.
At December 31, 2007 the Group had debt at a carrying value of $922.7 million outstanding 2006: $10.4 million, comprising the liability component of Shire plcs $1,100 million in principal amount of 2.75% convertible bonds, due 2014 which were issued in May 2007 and finance lease obligations.
The company incurs interest at a fixed rate on both the convertible bonds and on its finance lease obligations.
The Groups interest expense includes a provision for interest, which may be awarded by the Court in respect of amounts due to those ex-TKT shareholders who have requested appraisal of the acquisition consideration payable for their TKT shares.
The Group is exposed to the risk that the Court awards interest in excess of the amount provided.
The trial for the appraisal rights litigation is scheduled for May 2008.
Further details of the appraisal rights litigation are set out in Note 36.
The Group continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place to manage the risk.
No derivative instruments have been entered into to manage interest rates at March 7, 2008.
Market risk sensitivity analysis The following table outlines, as required by IFRS 7, a market rate sensitivity analysis illustrating the fair value of the Groups financial instruments and the impact on the Groups income statement and consolidated shareholders equity of reasonably possible changes in selected market risks.
The selected sensitivities include i an increase or decrease of 1% in interest rates: ii a 10% strengthening or weakening in the US dollar against all other currencies: and iii a 66% increase or decrease in the price of the Groups equity investments, from the rates or prices applicable at December 31, 2007, for each class of financial instrument.
150 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Interest rate risk Foreign exchange risk Market price risk 1% 1% 10% 10% strength- 66% 66% decrease increase in weakening ening in the decrease increase in in interest interest in the US US dollar in share share Sensitivity analysis 1 1 rates rates dollar price price $M $M $M $M $M $M --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- At December 31, 2007 Decrease increase in fair value of financial instruments 3.2 3.2 27.3 27.3 56.3 56.3 Impact on income statement: loss gain 3.2 3.2 10.7 10.7 - - Impact on equity: gain loss - - 51.1 51.1 56.3 56.3 --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- At December 31, 2006 Decrease increase in fair value of financial instruments 7.0 7.0 17.2 17.2 20.9 20.9 Impact on income statement: loss gain 7.0 7.0 4.4 4.4 - - Impact on equity: gain loss - - 27.7 27.7 20.9 20.9 --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- 1 The Group has used a one year historic weighted average volatility for each of its listed available-for-sale investments in its portfolio to determine a reasonably possible change in market price risk.
151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Financial instruments The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of each class of financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006.
Designated Available Loans and Amortized Carrying Fair at fair value for sale receivables cost amount value $M $M $M $M $M $M 2007 Available for sale investments i - 85.3 - - 85.3 85.3 Trade and other receivables ii - - 441.5 - 441.5 441.5 Derivative financial assets iii 8.2 - - - 8.2 8.2 Cash and cash equivalents ii - 762.5 - - 762.5 762.5 Restricted cash ii - 39.5 - - 39.5 39.5 Finance leases iv - - - 12.6 12.6 12.6 Convertible bonds v - - - 910.2 910.2 1,110.1 Trade and other payables ii - - - 79.6 79.6 79.6 Other financial liabilities vi - - - 480.2 480.2 480.2 Derivative financial liabilities iii 2.8 - - - 2.8 2.8 5.4 887.3 441.5 1,482.6 148.4 348.3 Designated Available Loans and Amortized Carrying Fair 2006 at fair value for sale receivables cost amount value $M $M $M $M $M $M Available for sale investments i - 31.6 - - 31.6 31.6 Trade receivables ii - - 310.8 - 310.8 310.8 Derivative financial assets iii 1.0 - - - 1.0 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents ii - 1,126.9 - - 1,126.9 1,126.9 Restricted cash ii - 29.8 - - 29.8 29.8 Finance leases iv - - - 10.4 10.4 10.4 Trade payables ii - - - 54.5 54.5 54.5 Other financial liabilities vi - - - 452.3 452.3 452.3 Derivative financial liabilities iii 9.1 - - - 9.1 9.1 8.1 1,188.3 310.8 517.2 973.8 973.8 152 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued i Available-for-sale investments: The fair values of available-for-sale investments are estimated based on quoted market prices for listed investments.
For other unlisted investments for which there are no quoted market prices, a reasonable estimate of fair value could not be made without incurring excessive costs, and the Group therefore considers the carrying value of these investments to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
ii The carrying amounts of restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables approximate fair value because of the short-term maturity of these amounts.
iii Derivative financial assets and liabilities derivative instruments comprise swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The fair value of these financial instruments estimated based on the amount the Group would pay or receive if the transaction was terminated.
Their fair values are calculated using standard market calculation conventions with reference to the relevant published closing spot and forward exchange rates taken from an active market.
iv Finance leases - the fair value of finance lease obligations are estimated based on the discounted future cash flows using currently available interest rates.
The Directors consider that the carrying value of the Groups finance leases approximate their fair value.
v The fair value of the Groups Convertible bonds is based on the quoted market price of the bonds at the balance sheet date as such the fair value quoted above represents the composite fair value for both the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds, whereas the carrying amount represents only the liability component.
vi Other financial liabilities relate to the liability to dissenting shareholders relating to the acquisition of TKT.
Capital risk management The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes borrowings disclosed in Note 26, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Note 34.
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns and to ensure the Group has sufficient capital available to meet future funding requirements.
The Group had net debt of $160.3 million at December 31, 2007 2006: $1,116.5 million net funds which is low relative to its market capitalization, and positions the Group to take advantage of any opportunities that might arise to develop the business.
Details of funding requirements are explained in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the Financial Review on page 22.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Trade and other payables 2007 2006 $M $M Trade payables 79.6 54.5 Other creditors 50.3 18.0 Accruals and deferred income 578.0 532.9 SERP Note 30 4.6 4.7 Total 712.5 610.1 Less: Non-current portion 34.3 24.6 Current portion 678.2 585.5 Trade payables comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade payables is 19 days 2006: 20 days.
The remaining contractual maturity of all trade payables is less than 3 months.
Accruals and deferred income includes accrued rebates and sales return reserves, accrued bonuses and other accrued expenses.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Legal Reorganization Other Total $M $M $M $M January 1, 2007 - 5.0 30.9 35.9 Charge for the year 51.6 - 4.6 56.2 Reversed unutilised - - 0.3 0.3 Utilised - - 15.1 15.1 Transfer to others - 5.0 5.0 - December 31, 2007 51.6 - 25.1 76.7 Less: Non-current portion 20.5 Current portion 56.2 Legal The legal provision of $51.6 million includes $50.0 million in respect of the settlement of the TKT purported securities fraud class action suit, presented gross of an expected insurance recovery of $23.0 million from the Groups insurers.
The insurance recovery has been presented as a receivable within current assets, see Note 22.
Other Other provisions primarily relate to provisions for guarantees, insurance and onerous lease provisions in relation to vacated properties.
Provisions for insurance and guarantees totaling $15.9 million are expected to be settled between one and three years.
Onerous lease provisions of $8.6 million will be paid over the next three years, the remaining life of the relevant leases.
154 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Reorganization Other Total $M $M $M January 1, 2006 7.8 26.1 33.9 Charge for the year - 17.2 17.2 Reversed unutilised - 0.9 0.9 Utilised 2.8 11.5 14.3 December 31, 2006 5.0 30.9 35.9 Less: Non-current portion 27.6 Current portion 8.3 30.
Retirement obligations The Group has a number of defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The Groups contribution is fixed as a set percentage of employees base salary.
The pension cost charge for the defined contribution schemes for the year was $21.3 million 2006: $13.2 million.
The closing creditor in respect of pension premiums at December 31, 2007 is $4.6 million 2006: $3.6 million.
The Group has two Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans SERPs, which are defined benefit plans.
The Roberts SERP is for some US employees of Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation Roberts who met certain age and service requirements.
Shire acquired Roberts in 1999, and the plan was discontinued in 2000.
There were no contributions payable by the Company in respect of 2007 and 2006.
The Company paid a lump sum of $18.0 million into the Roberts SERP, which was accounted for as a fair value adjustment, on the acquisition of Roberts to make good the deficit on this scheme at the time of acquisition.
This lump sum payment has led to the Company having no future liability under the SERP, which is closed to new members with contributions no longer payable by existing members.
Assets are set aside to fund these benefits in a Rabbi Trust.
The legal form of the trust is such that the assets held to cover the pension liabilities are available to the general creditors of the Company on winding up.
Accordingly, the assets held by the trust are not plan assets as defined by IAS 19 Employee Benefits, and are recorded on the balance sheet see Note 24.
The Shire SERP defined benefit scheme is an unfunded arrangement: the benefits are payable to certain senior US employees as lump sums on leaving the Companys employment or earlier due to death, disability or termination.
The amount of benefit is based on the value of notional contributions increased with earned investment returns as if they were invested in investments of the employees choice.
The entire benefit liability has been recognized on the balance sheet.
The liabilities of the two SERPs totaling $4.6 million at December 31, 2007 2006: $4.7 million are shown in Note 28.
155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Share capital 2007 2007 2006 2006 Ordinary shares Number Number '000 $M '000 $M Authorized At January 1, ordinary shares of 5p each 750,000 64.6 750,000 64.6 At December 31, ordinary shares of 5p each 750,000 64.6 750,000 64.6 Allotted, issued and fully paid At January 1, ordinary shares of 5p each 506,746 43.7 495,734 42.7 Issued on exercise of options for cash consideration 4,327 0.4 8,312 0.2 Issued on exchange of exchangeable shares 1,669 0.2 2,700 0.8 Issued on exercise of warrants for cash consideration 1,346 0.1 - - Issue of ordinary share capital 42,884 4.3 - - At December 31, ordinary shares of 5p each 556,972 48.7 506,746 43.7 2007 2007 2006 2006 Special ordinary voting shares Number Number '000 $M '000 $M Authorized At January 1 and December 31, - special ordinary voting shares of 0.00001p 10,000 10,000 - Allotted, issued and fully paid At January 1 and December 31 2,363 - 2,363 - Authorized share capital The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2007 was 750,000,000 ordinary shares 2006: 750,000,000, 10,000,000 special voting shares 2006: 10,000,000, and 2 deferred ordinary shares 2006: 2.
On November 1, 2006 50,000 non-voting preference shares were redeemed by the shareholders at par.
The special voting shares are held by a Voting Trustee, providing the holders of exchangeable shares in Shire Acquisition, Inc. with as nearly as practicable voting rights equivalent to those attached to Shires ordinary shares.
Issue of ordinary shares On February, 20 2007 the Company raised $877.3 million net of issue costs of $21.5 million by means of an equity placement to part fund the acquisition of New River.
The funds were raised using a cash box structure with the cash box being a company established specially for the purposes of the placing.
A 156 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued cash box placing is structured to enable a company to obtain merger relief on the issue of placing shares, which relieves the company from the requirement to credit any amount paid up on the shares in excess of the nominal value to the share premium account.
Shire plc therefore transferred the excess over the nominal value totaling $873.0 million from a merger reserve to retained earnings, and this amount is available for distribution to shareholders.
During the year ended December 31, 2007 the Company allotted 1,669,461 ordinary shares 2006: 2,700,262 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.1 million $0.1 million 2006: 0.1m $0.2million on the exchange of exchangeable shares, which were issued following the acquisition of BioChem in 2001.
These shares were issued at a premium of 18.1 million $25.7 million 2006 29.2 million $41.5 million.
Exchange of exchangeable shares As at December 31, 2007 731,302 exchangeable shares were held by the public and 16,560,846 exchangeable shares were held by a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire.
The special voting shares relating to the exchangeable shares held by the wholly owned subsidiary of Shire were held by the Voting Trustee on trust for Shire, but without Shire having the legal right to vote on those shares.
As at December 31, 2006 1,287,789 exchangeable shares were held by the public and 16,004,359 exchangeable shares were held by a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire.
The Company exchanged 556,487 exchangeable shares during the year ended December 31, 2007.
Each exchangeable share is capable of being exchanged for ordinary shares or ADSs, at a rate of one exchangeable share for three ordinary shares or one exchangeable share for one ADS, at any time at the request of the holder.
Only BioChem shareholders with Canadian residency had the option to receive exchangeable shares for their shares of BioChem at the time of acquisition.
The exchangeable shares were issued by Shire Acquisition Inc. a company incorporated under the Canada Business Corporations Act, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Holders of exchangeable shares are entitled to vote at shareholder meetings of the Company and are entitled to a dividend and other rights that are economically equivalent to those of ordinary shares, through a voting trust and by means of the special ordinary voting shares in Shire.
As at December 31, 2007 731,302 exchangeable shares remained unconverted.
On February 12, 2008, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire exercised a redemption call right and purchased all of the exchangeable shares of Shire Acquisition Inc. SAI Exchangeable Shares remaining in public ownership.
As a result of the purchase of all of the outstanding Exchangeable Shares held by the public by the wholly owned subsidiary of Shire following the exercise of the redemption call right, all of the special voting shares relating to the Exchangeable Shares are now held by the Voting Trustee on trust for Shire, but without Shire having the legal right to vote on those shares.
Exchangeable Shares, being shares of a Canadian resident corporation SAI, were issued to Canadian resident shareholders of BioChem Pharma Inc. now Shire Canada, Inc. as consideration for the acquisition by the Group of BioChem Pharma Inc. in 2001.
Exchangeable Shares were listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
On February 12, 2008, each holder of Exchangeable Shares was entitled to elect to receive either three ordinary shares of Shire plc or one ADS representing three ordinary shares of Shire plc for each Exchangeable Share held.
The Exchangeable Shares have now been delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The exchangeable shares are included as part of share capital in the consolidated balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the consolidated Groups capital structure, which differs from the Companies Act 1985 requirements to reflect these amounts as minority interests, as they will become, and are equivalent, to ordinary shares.
Share warrants On April 24, 2002 the Company issued 741,812 share warrants, at 4.88 per warrant, and on November 21, 2002 the Company issued a further 604,595 share warrants, at 4.895 per warrant, both issues being made to Technology Partnership Canada TPC, pursuant to an agreement between BioChem and 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued the Government of Canada.
Each warrant grants a right to subscribe for a corresponding number of ordinary shares of the Company within five years from the date of issue of the warrant.
On March 12, 2007 the April 2002 warrants were exercised in full.
On July 30, 2007 the November 2002 warrants were exercised in full.
Share based payments Historically the Group has granted options to directors and employees over ordinary shares under six stock option plans.
On November 28, 2005 the ordinary shareholders of Shire approved the adoption of the Shire plc Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B, a new share based compensation plan, which provides for stock-settled share appreciation rights and performance share awards to be made to directors and employees over ordinary shares and American depositary shares ADS.
No further awards will be made under the previous stock option plans.
The highest and lowest market prices during the year ended December 31, 2007 were 13.10 and 10.39 2006: 10.80 and 7.00 respectively.
The average share price during the year was 11.53 2006: 8.83.
The Group has granted options to Directors and employees over ordinary shares under the following six share option schemes: i Stock option plans i Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option Scheme - Parts A and B Executive Scheme Options granted under the Executive Scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless Shires ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If Shire plcs ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three years, they are thereafter tested quarterly by reference to share price growth over the extended period.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options will become exercisable.
On February 28, 2000 the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme so as to include a cliff vesting provision.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the Executive Scheme.
ii Shire plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 Executive Scheme Options granted under this scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any option granted prior to August 2002, if Shire plcs ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, the option becomes exercisable in full.
If it increases by at least 14.5% per annum over the same three-year period, 60% of the options granted become exercisable.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three-year measurement period, they will thereafter be tested quarterly by reference to compound annual share price growth over an extended period.
The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reflected the market in which the Group operates.
Given the Groups development, it was considered appropriate that an earnings per share based measure should be adopted in place of share price growth targets.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in the Groups Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shires option EPS growth over a three year period from the date of award exceeds the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% Directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The new earnings per share performance criteria apply to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
After consultation with certain of its institutional shareholders, the Group has decided that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the re-test of the performance condition if Shires option EPS growth has fallen short of the minimum annual average percentage increase over the three year period from grant, has been changed.
The performance condition will be retested once only, at five years after the grant.
Hence the level of option EPS growth in the next two years needs to be consequentially higher to meet the test.
161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Six weeks prior to the expiration date, any options that have not become exercisable at an earlier date, automatically vest without reference to the performance criteria.
In December 2006 the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the performance criteria for options granted under the 2000 Executive scheme that had not already vested.
The RPI based growth rate was replaced with equivalent fixed growth rates based on historical and forecast inflation.
The fair value of the awards were unaffected by this change and no additional compensation cost was recorded.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
iii Shire Pharmaceuticals Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
iv Shire plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The offering period is for 27 months.
v Pharmavene 1991 Stock Option Plan SLI Plan Options issued under the SLI Plan were originally granted over shares in SLI, formerly Pharmavene Inc. a company acquired by the Group on March 23, 1997.
Exercise of these options results in the option holder receiving ordinary shares in Shire plc.
As a result of the acquisition of SLI, and in accordance with the terms of the original, share option plan, all options granted under that plan became immediately capable of exercise.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the SLI Plan.
vi BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over ordinary shares of Shire plc.
All BioChem Pharma Inc. options, which were not already exercisable, vested and became exercisable as a result of the acquisition.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BioChem Stock Option Plan.
ii Stock-settled share appreciation rights vii Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors performance conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of the award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 1 3 per cent of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level will not be subject to performance conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
162 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Performance share plan viii Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share awards granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part B are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
For one-third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In a period of ten years, not more than 10% of the issued share capital of Shire may be placed under option under any share scheme.
In addition, the following terms apply to options that may be granted under the various plans: i 2000 Executive Scheme: the maximum number of Shire plc ordinary shares over which incentive options may be granted under Part 3 of the scheme is 25,000,000: and ii Share Purchase Plan: up to 2,000,000 Shire plc ordinary shares.
163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The maximum term and vesting period of awards granted and outstanding as at December 31, 2007 is summarised below: Expiration Compensation Number of period from type awards date of issue Vesting period Executive Stock options 89,256 7 to 10 years 3 years, subject to performance Scheme criteria 2000 Executive Stock options 12,177,880 10 years 3 years, subject to performance Scheme criteria Sharesave Stock options 364,641 6 months after 3 or 5 years Scheme vesting Stock Purchase Stock options 467,836 On vesting 27 months Plan date BioChem Plan Stock options 13,642 10 years Immediate on acquisition by the Group Total share 13,113,255 option schemes Portfolio Share Stock-settled share 5,680,361 5 years 3 years, subject to performance Plan - Part A appreciation rights criteria for Executive Directors ordinary shares only Portfolio Share Stock-settled share 16,242,072 5 years 3 years, subject to performance Plan - Part A appreciation rights criteria for Executive Directors 1 ADSs only Total Portfolio Share Plan - 21,922,433 Part A Portfolio Share Performance 240,406 3 years 3 years, subject to performance Plan - Part B shares ordinary criteria for Executive Directors shares only Portfolio Share Performance 897,309 3 years 3 years, subject to performance 1 Plan - Part B shares ADSs criteria for Executive Directors only Total Portfolio 1,137,715 Share Plan - Part B 1 For the purposes of this table the ADSs have been converted into ordinary shares.
One ADS is equivalent to three ordinary shares.
164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Options outstanding as of December 31, 2007 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average average Weighted exercise exercise price Number of average price of options Number of of options options Exercise prices remaining outstanding options exercisable outstanding life exercisable 1,919,337 0.01-4.00 5.0 3.55 1,844,812 3.54 7,543,303 4.01-6.00 6.9 5.47 2,276,523 5.22 2,461,371 6.01-10.00 6.4 7.07 67,779 9.43 1,189,244 10.01-13.00 3.0 12.10 943,532 12.57 13,113,255 5,132,646 Stock-settled share appreciation rights over ordinary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2007 have the following characteristics: Weighted average exercise Weighted Weighted price of average Number of average options Number of exercise price options Exercise prices remaining outstanding options of options outstanding life exercisable exercisable 2,411,823 0.01-10.00 3.5 8.48 - - 3,268,538 10.01-11.90 4.2 10.93 - - 5,680,361 - Stock-settled share appreciation rights over American depositary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2007 have the following characteristics: Weighted average exercise Weighted Weighted price of average Number of average options exercise price Number of options Exercise prices remaining outstanding options of options outstanding $ life exercisable $ exercisable 2,704,321 35.01-60.00 3.4 46.56 - - 2,709,703 60.01-75.00 4.2 66.00 - - 5,414,024 - 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Options and stock-settled share appreciation rights granted in the period under plans without market conditions were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Grants in the year under plans with market conditions were valued using a binomial model.
Performance share awards over ordinary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2007 have the following characteristics: Weighted average exercise Weighted Weighted price of average Number of average options Number of exercise price options Exercise prices remaining outstanding options of options outstanding life exercisable exercisable 240,406 0.00 1.9 - - - Performance share awards over American depositary shares outstanding as at December 31, 2007 have the following characteristics: Weighted average exercise Weighted Weighted price of average Number of average options Number of exercise price options Exercise prices remaining outstanding options of options outstanding $ life $ exercisable exercisable 299,103 0.00 1.9 - - - The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: 2007 2006 Weighted-average share price at grant dates 11.16 8.77 Weighted-average share exercise price 10.63 8.61 1 Shares under share-based award 12,481,344 10,018,948 Vesting period years 2.25-5.00 1.00-5.00 Expected volatility 25-28% 24-37% Option life years 1.00-5.00 2.25-5 Expected life years 1.00-5.00 2.25-5 Risk free interest rate 3.38-5.35% 4.66-4.96% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 0-0.5% 0.5% Estimated annual forfeiture rate 5% 5% Average fair value per option 3.26 2.87 1 For the purpose of this disclosure ADSs have been converted into ordinary shares.
166 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The weighted average expected volatility is based on historical volatility of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
In addition to equity-settled share based schemes discussed above, the Group operates a cash-settled share based scheme for senior executives, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The LTIP was adopted at the Companys 1998 Annual General Meeting and amended in 2000.
Under the Plan, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to make awards of shares subject to a maximum of 100% of salary a year.
The performance condition attached to the vesting of the share awards made under the LTIP is Shires Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index over a three-year period.
The Committee considers that this measure is a reliable and appropriate measure of the Groups performance and that the FTSE 100 is an appropriate benchmark given that the Company is a member of the Index.
Under this Plan: all shares vest if Shires TSR is in the top 10% of the FTSE 100: 20% of the shares vest if Shires TSR is at the median of the FTSE 100, with vesting between these points on a linear basis: and no shares vest if Shires TSR is below the median of the FTSE 100.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether and to what extent the performance condition has been met on the basis of data provided by an independent third party.
To date, all awards made under the LTIP have been made as a conditional allocation, thereby allowing, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, for a cash equivalent to be paid on maturity of the award.
Whilst the performance period is measured over three years, an award is normally transferred after the fourth anniversary of grant, to the extent the performance condition has been met.
For awards made under the LTIP prior to June 2001, performance is measured over a three-year period but the performance conditions are based on criteria of i 50% TSR benchmarked against FTSE mid-250 index and ii 50% subject to an EPS condition measured against the diluted EPS of the Group for the financial year ended before the commencement of the performance period and the diluted EPS of the Group for the financial year ended on or before the end of the performance period.
For awards made on March 1, 2000 the Committee determined that 44.84% of the part of the award subject to TSR performance measures and 100% of the part of the award subject to EPS performance measures could be transferred, resulting in 72.42% of the total award being transferred to participants.
These calculations were verified by external advisers.
The total liability under LTIP scheme is $9.9 million 2006: $8.1 million and is included in trade and other payables as disclosed in Note 28.
There were no liabilities outstanding for which the right to cash had vested at the year-end.
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was $73.6 million 2006: $20.4 million, all of which related to equity-settled share based payment transactions.
167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Treasury shares The Employee Share Option Trust ESOT reserve arises in connection with the ESOT, a discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the Groups long-term incentive scheme for senior management.
The amount of the reserve represents the deduction in arriving at shareholders funds for the consideration paid for the Companys shares purchased by the trust which had not vested unconditionally to employees at the balance sheet date.
The Deferred Bonus Plan the Plan provides for participants to use up to 50% of their annual bonus to buy shares in the Company.
The Group will match any shares bought, but the matched shares will vest, for Executive Directors, only if the Groups EPS grows by more than 15% in excess of RPI over a three-year period 9% in excess of RPI for other eligible employees.
Recent fiscal changes in the US have made the Plan less attractive to participants and the Remuneration Committee discontinued the Plan after bonus awards for the 2004 financial year.
The number and market value of the ordinary shares held by the ESOT trust at December 31 was: 2007 2007 2006 2006 Number Market value Number Market value 000 $M 000 $M Shares allocated but not vested 51 1.2 51 1.1 Unallocated shares 13,984 320.2 5,735 118.6 14,035 321.4 5,786 119.7 168 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Shareholders funds and statement of changes in shareholders equity Equity component Exchange of Capital Share Share Treasury able shares convertible Other reduction Retained capital premium shares bonds reserve reserve earnings Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M 43.7 125.7 94.8 59.5 - 2,099.7 2,946.5 1,034.9 4,145.4 Balance at January 1, 2007 Foreign currency translation differences - - - - - - - 24.2 24.2 Unrealized holding loss on available-forsale securities, net of taxes - - - - - - - 16.5 16.5 Realized loss on available-for-sale - - - - - - - 0.1 0.1 securities Net income recognized directly in equity -- - - -- - 7.6 7.6 Employee share option scheme: - value of employee services - - - - - - - 73.6 73.6 - proceeds from shares issued 0.4 29.9 - - - - - - 30.3 1 New shares issued, net of issue costs 4.3 - - - - - - 873.0 877.3 Exchange of exchangeable shares 0.2 25.7 - 25.9 -- - - - Proceeds from exercise of warrants 0.1 12.8 - - - - - - 12.9 - Purchase of shares by employee share ownership trust - - 186.0 - - - - 186.0 Equity component of convertible bonds see Note 26 - - - - 195.6 - - - 195.6 Dividends -- - - -- - 41.3 41.3 Tax benefit associated with share - - - - - - - 20.8 20.8 options Transfer of distributable reserves -- - - -- 32.0 32.0 - Profit for the year - - - - - - - 82.4 82.4 Balance at December 31, 2007 48.7 194.1 280.8 33.6 195.6 2,099.7 2,914.5 13.2 5,218.6 The cumulative foreign exchange differences on translation amount to a $56.0 million gain as at December 31, 2007 2006: $31.9 million gain.
The capital and other reserves arose in relation to various Group reconstructions and certain financing transactions.
1 During the year to December 31, 2007 the Company obtained merger relief on the new shares issued in excess of their nominal value, and accordingly recorded this excess, net of issue costs, to a merger reserve.
This excess of $873.0 million has transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings: this account is available for distribution to shareholders, see Note 31.
169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Capital Share Share Treasury Exchange Other reduction Retained capital premium shares able shares reserve reserve earnings Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M Balance at January 1, 2006 42.7 3.0 2.8 101.2 2,099.7 2,946.5 1,109.0 4,081.3 Foreign currency translation differences - - - - - - 26.7 26.7 Unrealized holding loss on available-forsale securities - - - - - - 1.8 1.8 Net income recognized directly in equity - - - - - - 24.9 24.9 Employee share option scheme: - value of employee services - - - - - - 20.4 20.4 - proceeds from shares issued 0.8 81.2 - - - - - 82.0 Exchange of exchangeable shares 0.2 41.5 - 41.7 - - - - Purchase of shares by ESOT - - 92.0 - - - - 92.0 Dividends 32.4 32.4 Tax benefit associated with exercise of share options - - - - - - 5.0 5.0 Profit for the year - - - - - - 56.2 56.2 Balance at December 31, 2006 43.7 125.7 94.8 59.5 2,099.7 2,946.5 1,034.9 4,145.4 170 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Cash generated from operations For the year For the year ended ended December December 31, 31, 2007 2006 $M $M Profit for the year 82.4 56.2 Profit for the year from discontinued operations - 40.6 Adjustments for: Taxation 51.0 114.0 Finance costs 93.1 27.0 Investment revenues 50.6 50.5 Other income expenses, net 1.9 - Share of post tax profit from associates and joint ventures 1.8 5.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 50.6 40.4 Amortization of intangible assets 148.5 81.5 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1.8 0.5 Impairment of intangible assets 256.8 1.1 Impairment of goodwill and adjustments in respect of prior year acquisitions 144.7 271.9 Impairment of available-for-sale investments 3.0 - Charge on effective settlement of pre-existing relationship 100.0 - Movements in financial assets 0.3 2.2 Gain on disposal of non-financial assets 0.2 0.8 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 - Gain on sale of product rights 102.9 63.0 Stock option compensation 73.6 20.4 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 745.8 454.5 Changes in working capital: Increase decrease in inventories 45.9 7.2 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 111.9 4.6 Decrease in other assets 0.4 0.7 Increase in trade and other payables 32.8 107.7 Increase decrease in deferred income 5.0 1.8 Cash generated from operations 626.2 572.9 Interest paid 25.7 2.3 Income tax paid 33.5 5.6 Net cash flows from operating activities 567.0 565.0 Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single category of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Guarantees, commitments and contingencies a Leases The Group leases property, computer and office equipment and certain motor vehicles under operating leases.
The rents payable under property leases are subject to renegotiation at various intervals specified in the leases.
The Group pays for substantially all of the insurance, maintenance and repair of these assets.
171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and Motor 2007 buildings Equipment vehicles Total $M $M $M $M Not later than 1 year 29.5 0.1 2.4 32.0 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 92.3 0.1 2.9 95.3 Later than 5 years 95.7 0.5 - 96.2 217.5 0.7 5.3 223.5 Land and Motor 2006 buildings Equipment vehicles Total $M $M $M $M Not later than 1 year 23.4 0.6 2.1 26.1 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 61.5 1.1 11.4 74.0 Later than 5 years 43.7 - - 43.7 128.6 1.7 13.5 143.8 The future aggregate payments for land and buildings include $195.1 million in respect of operating leases expiring in 2023 on the Groups US headquarters in Wayne, Pennsylvania, and the Groups HGT business headquarters at Lexington Technology Park, Lexington, Massachusetts and in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
b Guarantees and collateral At December 31, 2007 the Group had $8.6 million 2006: $6.7 million of restricted cash held as collateral for certain equipment leases.
c Letters of credit As at December 31, 2007 the Group had the following letters of credit: i an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Barclays Bank plc, in the amount of $14.2 million, providing security on the recoverability of insurance claims.
The Group has restricted cash of $14.2 million, as required by this letter of credit: and ii an irrevocable standby letter of credit with Bank of America in the amount of $7.7 million, providing security on the payment of lease obligations.
The Group has restricted cash of $7.7 million, as required by this letter of credit.
d Financial commitments i Alba Therapeutics Corporation On December 14, 2007 Shire acquired worldwide rights to SPD550, also known as AT-1001, in markets outside of the US and Japan, from Alba.
SPD550 is Albas lead inhibitor of barrier dysfunction in various gastrointestinal disorders that is currently in Phase 2 development for the treatment of Celiac disease.
Shire paid an upfront payment of $25 million $16.4 million of which has been capitalized as an other intangible asset in 2007 and will pay further development and sales milestones up to a maximum of $300 million.
Shire will also pay tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
Tiered royalty rates will be single or double digit dependent on annual net sales.
Alba and Shire have formed a joint development committee to monitor R&D activities of SPD550.
Alba will fund all development until SPD550 has completed Proof of Concept, which is expected to be in the 172 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued first half of 2009, after which Shire and Alba will share equally development costs under a joint development plan.
ii Amicus Therapeutics, Inc. On November 7, 2007 Shire licensed from Amicus the rights to three pharmacological chaperone compounds in markets outside of the US: AMIGAL for Fabry disease Phase 2, PLICERA for Gaucher disease Phase 2 and AT2220 for Pompe disease Phase 1.
Shire paid Amicus an upfront license fee of $50 million capitalized as other intangible asset in 2007, and will pay further development and sales based milestones to a maximum of $390 million.
Shire will also pay tiered, double digit, royalties on net sales of the products.
Shire and Amicus will pursue a joint development program toward market approval in the US and Europe: expenses for this program will be shared equally.
iii JUVISTA On June 19, 2007 Shire signed an agreement with Renovo to develop and commercialize JUVISTA, Renovos novel drug candidate in late Phase 2 development.
JUVISTA is being studied for the prevention and reduction of scarring in connection with both cosmetic and therapeutic surgery.
Under the terms of the agreement Shire has the exclusive right to commercialize JUVISTA worldwide, with the exception of EU member states.
Following the expiration of the Hart Scott-Rodino HSR waiting period on August 10, 2007, Shire paid Renovo $75 million capitalized as other intangible asset in 2007 and made an equity investment in Renovo of $50 million at a subscription price of 2 per share, representing 6.5% of Renovos share capital immediately after the issue.
In addition, Shire will pay Renovo $25 million on the filing of JUVISTA with the FDA: up to $150 million on FDA approval: royalties on net sales of JUVISTA: and up to $525 million on the achievement of very significant sales targets.
Shire will bear the cost of clinical trials designed specifically for obtaining US regulatory approval.
Renovo will bear the costs of clinical trials designed specifically for obtaining EU regulatory approval.
Shire and Renovo will share equally the costs of conducting global clinical trials that are designed for obtaining both US and EU regulatory approvals.
iv DAYTRANA In connection with the Groups acquisition in 2003 from Noven Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Noven of the worldwide sales and marketing rights to DAYTRANA, Shire paid $50 million to Noven in the year to December 31, 2007 as a result of reaching sales milestones, of which $25 million was accrued at December 31, 2006.
These amounts have been capitalized within other intangible assets and will be amortized over approximately 10 years.
Shire has a further obligation to pay Noven $25 million, contingent on future sales performance.
v Womens Health Products In September 2006 Shire and Duramed entered into an agreement related to SEASONIQUE, a number of products using Durameds transvaginal ring technology and other oral products.
Shire has the right to market these products in a number of markets outside of North America, including the larger European markets.
Under this agreement, Shire will reimburse Duramed for US development expenses incurred going forward up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years from September 2006.
US development expenditure reimbursement for the year to December 31, 2007 totaled $15.9 million.
At December 31, 2007 the maximum future reimbursement for Duramed incurred US development expenditure was $121.6 million.
Shire is separately responsible for development costs in its licensed territories.
vi Other R&D and sales milestones In addition to the commitments set out in i to iv, at December 31, 2007 the Group had commitments payable on achievement of specified milestones and fees payable for products under development inlicensed from third parties of $5.3 million 2006: $75.6 million.
173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued vii Clinical testing At December 31, 2007 the Group had committed to pay approximately $77.6 million 2006: $55.0 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
However, the timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities.
viii Contract manufacturing At December 31, 2007 the Group had committed to pay approximately $109.7 million 2006: $83.4 million in respect of contract manufacturing.
The Group expects to pay $91.3 million of these commitments in 2008 2006: $64.5 million in 2007. ix Purchase and service commitments At December 31, 2007 the Group had committed to pay approximately $49.4 million in respect of commitments for purchases and services, predominately relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing and IT outsourcing.
The Group expects to pay $31.0 million of these commitments in 2008. x Investment commitments At December 31, 2007 the Group had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totaling $7.9 million 2006: $15.9 million which may all be payable in 2008, depending on the timing of capital calls.
xi Capital commitments At December 31, 2007, the Group has committed to spend $52.0 million in respect of capital projects, including commitments for the expansion and improvements to office space at the UK headquarters at Basingstoke, and improvements to laboratory and office space leased by the HGT business at Lexington, Massachusetts.
e Contingent liabilities General The Group accounts for litigation losses in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
The amount recognized as a provision in managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, in other words the amount that an entity would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or transfer it to a third party at the time.
As at December 31, 2007 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $67.5 million 2006: $35.7 million.
ADDERALL XR i Colony and Actavis In December 2004, Shire was notified that Colony Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Colony had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of US Patent No.
6,322,819 the 819 Patent and US Patent No.
6,605,300 the 300 Patent, the Shire patents that cover ADDERALL XR.
Colony is a member of the 174 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Actavis Group hf group of companies.
On March 20, 2007, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the District of Maryland against Colony, Actavis, Inc. and Actavis Group hf collectively Colony and Actavis for infringement of the 819 Patent, the 300 Patent and also US Patent No.
The lawsuit alleges that all of Colony and Actavis generic strengths infringe the three patents in suit.
In response, Colony and Actavis have alleged as affirmative defenses and counterclaims noninfringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the three patents.
Because the case was not filed pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, there is no 30-month stay of approval of Colony and Actavis ANDA products associated with this litigation.
On August 2, 2007, Colony filed a motion for partial summary judgement of non-infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
Following a discovery period and briefing, the Court heard oral argument on November 27, 2007.
In a decision dated January 2, 2008, the Court denied Colonys summary judgment motion.
On January 17, 2008, Colony filed motions for clarification reconsideration and a request for certification.
The Court denied both motions on January 23, 2008.
Expert discovery is ongoing and is to be completed in April 2008.
No trial date has been set.
ii Teva Pharmaceuticals In February 2005, Shire was notified that Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Teva Pharmaceuticals had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 10mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Groups 819 and 300 Patents.
In June 2005, Shire was notified that Teva Pharmaceuticals had amended its ANDA to seek permission to market additional strengths of 5mg, 15mg and 20mg of its generic ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the '819 and '300 Patents.
In January 2006, Shire received a third notice letter that Teva Pharmaceuticals had further amended its ANDA to seek permission to market the 25mg strength generic version of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the 819 and 300 Patents.
On March 2, 2006 Shire filed a lawsuit in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. collectively Teva alleging that all of Tevas ANDA products infringe both the 819 and the 300 Patents.
The lawsuit triggered a stay of FDA approval of Tevas 25mg strength product for 30 months from the date of the Groups receipt of Tevas third notice letter.
There is no such stay with respect to Tevas 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg and 30mg strength versions of ADDERALL XR.
Teva counterclaimed that the 819, 300 and 768 Patents are not infringed and or invalid.
On January 30, 2007, the case was transferred to the civil suspense docket because discovery was stayed pending settlement discussions.
No discovery was taken in this case.
This case settled on March 6, 2008, with Teva conceding that its proposed generic ANDA products infringe Shires 819, 300 and 768 Patents, and that the three patents are valid and enforceable.
Under the terms of the settlement, Teva will be permitted to sell their generic versions of ADDERALL XR that are the subject of Teva's ANDA one hundred eighty one days after the launch by Barr Laboratories, Inc. of a generic ADDERALL XR product, subject to FDA approval of Teva's ANDA products.
No payments to Teva are involved in the settlement agreement.
The settlement agreement, which was effective immediately, has been submitted to the FTC and DOJ for review, as required by law.
iii Andrx and Watson In September 2006, Shire was notified that Andrx Pharmaceuticals, LLC Andrx had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg and 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration date of the Groups 819 and 300 Patents.
Shire Laboratories and Shire LLC filed lawsuits in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey and the Southern District of Florida against Andrx and Andrx Corporation for infringement of the Groups 819 and 300 Patents.
Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. the recent acquiror of Andrx, was also named as a defendant in the lawsuits.
In March 2007, Shire dismissed the Florida lawsuit without prejudice.
Thereafter in July 2007, the US District Court for the District of New Jersey ordered the pending action in New Jersey transferred to Southern District of Florida.
The Florida case settled on November 20, 2007 with Andrx and Watson conceding to the infringement of the 819, 300 and 768 patents.
Under the terms of the settlement, Andrx and Watson will be permitted to sell their generic versions of ADDERALL XR one hundred eighty one days after the launch by Barr Laboratories, Inc. of a generic ADDERALL XR product provided Andrx and or Watson has received FDA approval of their ANDA.
No payments to Andrx, and no payments to Watson are involved in the settlement.
As required by law, Shire submitted to the FTC and the US Department of Justice DOJ all of the agreements entered into as part of this settlement.
175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iv Sandoz In December 2006, Shire was notified that Sandoz Inc. Sandoz had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, 25mg, 30mg strengths of ADDERALL XR prior to the expiration of the Groups 819 and 300 Patents.
On January 26, 2007 Shire filed suit in the US District Court for the District of Colorado for infringement of the 819 and 300 Patents.
Pursuant to the Hatch Waxman Act, there will be a 30 month stay with respect to Sandoz proposed generic products.
In response to Shires complaint, Sandoz has alleged affirmative defenses and counterclaims of non infringement and invalidity.
Sandoz has also alleged sham litigation and patent misuse, and the Group has filed a motion to strike these two affirmative defenses.
The Court has denied the motion without prejudice.
Discovery is ongoing and affirmative expert reports were filed on September 21, 2007 and rebuttal reports were filed on October 12, 2007.
On December 21 and 26, 2007 Sandoz and Shire, respectively, each filed motions for summary judgement.
Opposition briefs were exchanged on February 8, 2008.
Reply briefs were exchanged on February 28, 2008.
CARBATROL i Nostrum In August 2003, the Group was notified that Nostrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Nostrum had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 300mg strength of CARBATROL Nostrums ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the Groups US patents for CARBATROL, US patent No.
5,912,013 the 013 Patent and US patent No.
The notification alleges that the 013 and 570 Patents are not infringed by Nostrums ANDA product.
On September 18, 2003, Shire filed suit against Nostrum in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA product.
The lawsuit triggered a stay of FDA approval of up to 30 months from Shires receipt of Nostrums notice letter.
The 30 month stay expired on February 6, 2006.
Nostrum could be in a position to market its 300mg extended-release carbamazepine product upon FDA final approval of its ANDA.
On January 23, 2004 the Group amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
On July 17, 2006 the Court entered an order staying discovery in this case until and through September 15, 2006.
The parties requested, and the Court granted, an extension of the stay of discovery until and through December 29, 2006.
The stay of discovery has been extended.
Nostrum requested and the Court permitted Nostrum to file claim construction briefs in the Shire v. Corepharma case also pending in New Jersey.
Opening briefs were submitted on October 3, 2007 and responding briefs on October 24, 2007.
There has yet to be a Markman hearing, if necessary, or a decision.
The case has been stayed pending a claim construction ruling in the Shire v. Corepharma action.
ii Corepharma On March 30, 2006 the Group was notified that Corepharma LLC Corepharma had filed an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of carbamazepine extended release products in 100mg, 200mg and 300mg strengths prior to the expiration date of the 013 and the 570 Patents.
On May 17, 2006 Shire filed suit against Corepharma in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Corepharmas ANDA and ANDA products.
Pursuant to the Hatch Waxman Act, there will be a 30 month stay with respect to Corepharmas proposed generic products.
On September 1, 2006 the Group amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
On May 4, 2007 Corepharma filed a motion for summary judgement of non infringement of the 570 Patent.
Shires opposition to that motion was filed on July 30, 2007.
The Court informed the parties on August 30, 2007 that Corepharmas motion was denied without prejudice.
The Court set a Markman schedule and opening briefs were exchanged on October 3, 2007 including an amicus brief, filed with the Courts permission by Nostrum.
Responding briefs were exchanged on October 24, 2007.
While the Court has also entered a discovery schedule, no trial date has been set.
176 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Teva On March 20, 2007 the Group was notified that Teva USA had filed an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of carbamazepine extended release products in 100mg, 200mg and 300mg strengths prior to the expiration date of the 013 and the 570 Patents.
On May 2, 2007, Shire filed suit against Teva in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging infringement of the 013 and the 570 Patents by Tevas ANDA and ANDA products.
On August 23, 2007 Shire amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
Teva USA raised counterclaims that the 570 and 013 Patents were not infringed.
Shire has offered Teva USA a covenant not to sue with respect to the 013 Patent.
The Court held a status conference on October 16, 2007.
Teva withdrew its counterclaim directed to the 013 patent.
The parties have submitted a discovery schedule to the Court.
GENE ACTIVATION In 1996 Applied Research Systems Holding N. V. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Serono S. A. Serono, now refered to as Merck Serono, and Cell Genesys became involved in a patent interference involving Seronos US Patent No.
5,272,071 the 071 Patent, which purportedly covers certain methods of gene activation.
In June 2004, the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences of the US Patent and Trademark Office PTO held that both Serono and Cell Genesys were entitled to certain claims in their respective patent and patent application, and Serono and Cell Genesys each appealed the decision of the interference to the US District Court of Massachusetts and the US District Court of the District of Columbia, respectively.
Shire Human Genetic Therapies Inc. Shire HGT formerly TKT was not a party to this interference.
The District of Columbia action was subsequently transferred and consolidated with the District of Massachusetts action the Appeal.
In August 2004, Serono served Shire HGT with an amended complaint in the Appeal.
The amended complaint alleges that Shire HGT infringes Seronos 071 Patent.
In November 2007, Shire HGT and Serono entered into a settlement agreement granting Shire HGT a license to the 071 Patent and its foreign counterparts, as well as additional patents and patent applications related to gene-activation.
DYNEPO Since 1997, Shire HGT and Sanofi-Aventis have been involved in ongoing patent litigation regarding Amgens allegations that DYNEPO infringes claims of five of Amgens patents.
In 2001, the United States District Court of Massachusetts concluded that DYNEPO infringed certain claims of the patents that Amgen had asserted.
This decision was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit the Federal Circuit which affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded the action to the United States District Court of Massachusetts for further proceedings.
In 2004, the United States District Court of Massachusetts issued a decision on the remanded issues, finding that certain claims related to four of the patents asserted by Amgen are infringed by Shire HGT and Sanofi-Aventis.
This decision was subsequently appealed to the Federal Circuit which affirmed in part, reversed in part, and once again remanded certain issues to the District Court.
Amgen filed a petition for a writ of Certiorari with the Supreme Court in March 2007, requesting review of the Federal Circuits 2004 decision.
Amgens petition was denied on May 14, 2007 and the case was remanded to the District Court.
Under the existing decisions, the Group and Sanofi-Aventis would be precluded from making, using and selling DYNEPO in the United States until the expiration of the relevant patents.
The Group is required to reimburse Sanofi-Aventis, which controls the litigation and is paying the litigation expenses, for 50% of the expenses incurred in connection with the litigation from and after March 26, 2004.
This litigation has no impact on Shires ability to make, use and sell DYNEPO outside of the United States.
REMINYL On January 29, 2008 Generics UK Ltd commenced a rectification action in the UK seeking a declaration that the duration of the Supplementary Protection Certificate SPC for EP 236684, the patent that claims the use of galantamine for the treatment of Alzheimers disease, is zero ie the period of exclusivity conferred by the patent has already expired, or alternatively that it expires on 31 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued December 2008.
This SPC represents the primary patent protection for Reminyl in the EU.
The current term of the SPC extension runs to January 2012.
Absent the SPC extension, the patent would have expired in January, 2007.
REMINYL is entitled to a 10 year data exclusivity in the UK, which will not expire until March 2010.
Appraisal Rights In connection with Shires merger with TKT, former holders of approximately 11.7 million shares of TKT common stock submitted written demands to the Delaware Court of Chancery for appraisal of these shares and, as a result, elected not to accept the $37 per share merger consideration.
On October 10, 2005 at the request of one of the holders to tender 365,000 shares at the merger price of $37 per share, TKT filed a motion to dismiss the holders demand.
On October 12, 2005 the Delaware Court of Chancery granted this motion, and the holder tendered the shares at the merger consideration of $37 per share.
Therefore, as at December 31, 2007, former holders of approximately 11.3 million shares of TKT common stock maintained written demands for appraisal of these shares and have elected not to accept the $37 merger consideration.
In November 2005, the Delaware Court of Chancery approved a stipulated consolidation order whereby actions brought by all petitioners have been consolidated as one case.
In April 2006, Shire filed a motion for partial summary judgment in respect of approximately 8 million shares, claiming that the petitioners were not entitled to assert appraisal rights in connection with such shares.
In May 2007, the Delaware Court of Chancery denied this motion and held that the owners of such shares were entitled to seek appraisal of them.
To the extent that petitioners demands were validly asserted in accordance with the applicable requirements of Delaware law and the former holders perfect their rights thereunder, such former holders will be entitled to receive the fair value of these shares as determined by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
The determination of fair value will be made excluding any element of value arising from the transaction, such as cost savings or business synergies.
At December 31, 2007 the Group recorded a liability of $419.9 million based on the merger consideration of $37 per share for the 11.3 million shares outstanding at that time, plus a provision for interest of $60.3 million that may be awarded by the Court.
The total consideration for the acquisition of TKT, including amounts payable in respect of stock options and convertible securities, is approximately $1.6 billion at the merger price of $37 per share.
This could change if Shire is required to pay a different amount of consideration in respect of the approximately 11.3 million shares for which holders have asserted appraisal rights.
For every dollar increase decrease in the merger consideration applicable to those TKT shareholders who have asserted appraisal rights, the total estimated purchase price would increase decrease by approximately $11.3 million.
Until such time as the appraisal process is complete, the Group is unable to determine the extent of its liability.
As a result of the new action described below, the April 23, 2007 trial date previously set for the first appraisal rights action was postponed.
On March 8, 2007 certain of the former TKT shareholders who previously asserted appraisal rights in connection with the Shire TKT merger filed a second suit in the Delaware Chancery Court alleging, among other claims, breaches of fiduciary duty by TKT and certain members of its board in connection with the merger with Shire.
Shire plc and TKT have been named as defendants as are four former directors of TKT.
The new complaint also asserts a claim that the merger itself was not properly approved by a majority of the outstanding stock of TKT entitled to vote.
The complaint seeks rescissory damages with interest, attorneys fees and costs.
A consolidated trial for both actions is scheduled for May 2008.
Class Action Shareholder Suit In January and February 2003, various parties filed purported securities fraud class action lawsuits against TKT and Richard Selden, TKT's former Chief Executive Officer, in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
In April 2003, the Court appointed a Lead Plaintiff and Lead Counsel and consolidated the various matters under one matter: In re Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. Securities Litigation, C. A.
"In July 2003, the plaintiffs filed a Consolidated and Amended Class Action Complaint the ""Amended Complaint"" against TKT: Dr Selden: Daniel Geffken, TKT's former Chief Financial Officer: Walter 178 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Gilbert, Jonathan S. Leff, Rodman W. Moorhead, III, and Wayne P. Yetter, then members of TKT's board of directors: William R. Miller and James E. Thomas, former members of TKT's board of directors: and SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company, underwriters of TKTs common stock in prior public offerings."
The Amended Complaint alleges that the defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information concerning the status and progress for obtaining United States marketing approval of REPLAGAL during the period between January 4, 2001 and January 10, 2003.
The Amended Complaint asserts claims against Dr Selden and TKT under Section 10 b of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder: and against Dr Selden under Section 20 a of the Exchange Act.
The Amended Complaint also asserts claims based on TKT's public offerings of June 29, 2001, December 18, 2001 and December 26, 2001 against each of the defendants under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 and against Dr Selden under Section 15 of the Securities Act: and against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company under Section 12 a 2 of the Securities Act.
The plaintiffs seek equitable and monetary relief, an unspecified amount of damages, with interest, and attorneys' fees and costs.
In May 2004, the Court granted in part and denied in part TKT's motion to dismiss.
"In particular, the Court dismissed allegations against TKT to the extent they arose out of certain forward-looking statements protected by the ""safe harbor"" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and dismissed claims based on the public offerings of June 29, 2001 and December 18, 2001."
The Court allowed all other allegations to remain.
In July 2004, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed all claims based on the third public offering dated December 26, 2001.
In November 2005, the court granted the plaintiffs motion for class certification.
On May 23, 2005, the court entered judgment on all claims alleged against SG Cowen Securities Corporation, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Pacific Growth Equities, Inc. and Leerink Swann & Company.
On June 5, 2006, the court entered judgment on all claims alleged against Messrs. Gilbert, Leff, Moorhead, Yetter, Miller, and Thomas.
On November 9, 2006, Mr Geffken filed an Agreement for Judgment on all claims alleged against him.
On September 1, 2007 the SEC filed suit against Dr Selden.
The case is entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Richard B Selden, Civil Action No.
The Group is obligated to indemnify Dr Selden for his costs incurred in connection with the SEC Action.
In October 2007, the parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve the Class Action Shareholder Suit, subject to court approval, for $50 million.
Shire will contribute $27 million toward the settlement and its insurance companies will contribute the remaining $23 million.
The $27 million net settlement cost has been provided for within SG&A during the year to December 31, 2007.
179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37.
Principal subsidiaries The Company and the Group have investments in the following subsidiary undertakings which principally affected the results or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Country of Principal activity Holding % incorporation Shire LLC US Licensing, development, production and 100% distribution of pharmaceuticals Shire US, Inc.
US Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited UK Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited UK Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire France SA France Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Italia SpA Italy Marketing of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica SL Spain Marketing and distribution of 100% pharmaceuticals Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Limited UK Holding Company 100% Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
US Management services company 100% Shire Development, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, 100% including on behalf of other Group companies Shire Regulatory, Inc.
US Development of pharmaceuticals, 100% including on behalf of other Group companies Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Marketing and distribution of 100% pharmaceuticals Shire Canada Inc. formerly Shire Canada Marketing, research and development of 100% BioChem, Inc. pharmaceuticals, including on behalf of other Group companies Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Licensing and development of 100% pharmaceuticals Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited UK Development of pharmaceuticals, 100% including on behalf of other Group companies Shire US Manufacturing, Inc.
US Manufacturer of pharmaceuticals 100% Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc.
US Marketing, manufacture, research and 100% formerly known as Transkaryotic Therapies, development of pharmaceuticals, Inc. including on behalf of other Group companies TKT Europe AB Sweden Marketing and distribution of 100% pharmaceuticals Held directly by Shire plc.
All subsidiary undertakings have been included in the consolidated financial statements.
Country of incorporation or principal business address 180 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Employees, directors and key management Staff The average monthly number of people employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 Number Number Manufacturing and distribution 588 584 Sales and marketing 1,563 1,299 General and administrative 468 429 Research and development 817 556 3,436 2,868 Aggregate remuneration of Directors The total amounts for remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2007 2006 $M $M Emoluments 6.9 6.0 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.5 Gains on exercise of share options 4.4 0.4 11.8 6.9 No fees were payable to third parties in respect of Directors services for either year.
The numbers of Directors who were members of Group retirement schemes were as follows: 2007 2006 Number Number Defined contribution schemes 2 2 Defined benefit scheme SERP 1 1 The above amounts for remuneration include the following in respect of the highest paid Director: 2007 2006 $M $M Aggregate emoluments 3.7 3.2 Pension contributions 0.4 0.4 4.1 3.6 181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Aggregate remuneration of key management The total amounts for remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2007 2006 $M $M Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 16.0 14.9 Post-employment benefits 1.2 1.3 Termination benefits 1.9 - Share-based payments 9.1 5.6 28.2 21.8 The key management figures given above include Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Related-party transactions Professional fees The Group incurred professional fees with Stikeman Elliott, a law firm in which the Hon.
James Grant, a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc until May 2007, is a Chair Emeritus, totaling $0.2 million for the year to December 31, 2007 2006: $0.6 million: 2005: $0.5 million.
In April 2004, the Group contributed cash of $3.7 million CAD$5.0 million and equipment and intellectual property to the start-up of a new Canadian-based pharmaceutical research and development organization, ViroChem Pharma Inc. ViroChem, in return for an equity interest and royalties on the sale of certain products subsequently launched by ViroChem.
In November 2007, April 2006 and April 2005, the Group contributed cash of $6.2 million CAD$6.0 million, $8.0 million CAD$9 million and $4.1 million CAD$5 million respectively to ViroChem in return for an additional equity interest.
Dr Bellini, a Non-Executive Director of Shire BioChem, Inc. and, until May 10, 2003, a Non-Executive Director of Shire, had, at the time of the transaction, an indirect substantial interest in a company, which is a co-investor of ViroChem.
In October 2005, the Group sub-leased its office premises in Newport to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Group, was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals, Inc. up to February 9, 2007 and remains a Board Director.
As a result of the transaction the Group will receive $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease period from Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. 182 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2007 which comprise the Balance sheet and the related notes A to J.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2007 and on the information in the Directors' remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors' Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans review, the Chief Executive Officers review and the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors' Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
183 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 A.
Presentation of the financial statements Description of the business Shire plc is the parent company of the Shire Group, the principal activity of which is the research, development and marketing of prescription medicines.
The Group focuses on four therapeutic areas: ADHD, gastrointestinal, human genetic therapies and renal.
Preparation of financial statements These financial statements are drawn up in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP as at December 31, 2007, with comparative figures as at December 31, 2006.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented in this Annual Report.
The Company reported a profit for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $21.6 million 2006: loss of $15.3 million.
Accounting convention and standards The balance sheet has been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and law.
Accounting principles and policies The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with UK GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companys accounting policies approved by the Board and described in Note B.
Directors emoluments and employees Details of directors remuneration can be found in Note 38 and the Directors Remuneration Report of the Group accounts.
There was one employee of the Company in the year 2006: one.
Details of the Groups share option schemes are contained in the Note 32 of the Group accounts.
The share based compensation charge recorded by the Company during the year is $1.7 million 2006: $0.4 million relating to one director.
Dividends Details of the dividends paid during the year can be found in Note 15 of the Group accounts.
Audit fees Details of the audit and non-audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP and their associates by the Company and the Group can be found in Note 6 of the Group accounts.
186 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 B.
Accounting policies Intangible assets Brand name Intangible assets comprise the cost of acquiring a brand name, which has not been amortized as the end of its useful economic life cannot be foreseen.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost or, if applicable under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, the nominal value of the shares issued, less any provision for impairment.
Exchangeable shares The exchangeable shares are included as part of share capital in the Companys balance sheet to present a true and fair view of the Companys capital structure, which differs from the Companies Act 1985 requirements to reflect these amounts as minority interests, as they will become, and are equivalent, to ordinary shares.
Dividends paid and received Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognized in respect of goods and services received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Foreign currency transactions Items included in the financial statements of the Company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates the functional currency.
These financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet dates are reported at the rate of exchange prevailing at that date.
187 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 B.
Accounting policies continued Share-based compensation The Company operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options was valued using option pricing models.
Options granted without market-based performance conditions were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Options granted with market-based performance conditions were valued using a binomial model.
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payments, the resulting cost for the Companys employee is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the options.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
The cost for options granted to the Companys subsidiaries employees represents additional capital contributions by the Company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in subsidiaries has been recorded with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the grant date fair value of the options issued, allocated over the underlying grants vesting period.
The Company also provides its employee with the option to purchase the Companys ordinary shares under the Shire Pharmaceuticals Sharesave Scheme at an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to the employee.
The Company provides finance to an ESOT to purchase company shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running the ESOT are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOT, presented as Treasury shares, are deducted from equity shareholders funds.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognized in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognized in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognized only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided in timing differences arising on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
188 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 B.
Accounting policies continued Convertible bonds On issue the Company bifurcates convertible bonds into their debt and equity components.
The fair value of the debt component is estimated using the market interest rate for an equivalent nonconvertible bond.
Issue costs incurred in respect of the convertible bonds are allocated to the liability and equity elements pro-rata to their fair value of each component.
C. Intangible Assets Brand name 2007 2006 $M $M At January 1 and December 31 0.4 0.4 D. Fixed Asset Investments 2007 2006 $M $M Shares in subsidiary undertakings At January 1 3,111.5 3,088.8 Additions - - Impairments 22.9 - Return of capital - 0.6 Capital contribution relating to share based payments 72.0 22.7 At December 31 3,160.0 3,111.5 Additions During the year the Company acquired a 100% holding in a subsidiary undertaking, Shire Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in the Jersey.
Impairments In the year to December 31, 2007 an impairment charge of $22.9 million 2006: $nil was recognized in respect of the Companys investment in 3829359 Canada Inc. Callco.
The recoverable amount of the investment was compared to its carrying value and as a result of a decline in the value of Callcos net assets during 2007 attributable to the Companys ordinary share holding an impairment charge was recognized, during the year to December 31, 2007.
189 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 D. Fixed Asset Investments continued Return of capital During the year to December 31, 2007 the Company received a return of capital in respect of its investment in Callco totaling $0.7 million.
The Company credited its investment in Callco by $0.6 million to reduce the Companys investment to its recoverable amount, with the excess of the return of capital received over the recoverable amount of the Companys investment in Callco totaling $0.1 million, being credited to the profit and loss account during the year to December 31, 2007.
Details of the Companys direct subsidiaries as at December 31, 2007 are as follows: Country of Principal incorporation activity Holding % Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom Holding company 100 3829359 Canada Inc. Canada Investment - company Shire Jersey Limited Jersey Non trading 100 Details of indirect subsidiaries can be found in Note 37 of the Group accounts.
E. Debtors 2007 2006 $M $M Amount due within one year: Amounts due from group undertakings 114.2 62.3 Deferred financing costs 5.6 - Other debtors 1.1 0.6 120.9 62.9 2007 2006 $M $M Amounts due after one year: Amounts due from group undertakings 1,978.9 - F. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2007 2006 $M $M Amounts owed to group undertakings 303.1 117.6 Other taxes and social security payable 0.1 0.6 Accrued interest 4.8 - Accruals and deferred income 1.6 0.6 309.6 118.8 190 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 G. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Convertible bonds On May 9, 2007 the Company issued $1,100.0 million in principal amount of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid ordinary shares of Shire plc of par value 0.05 each.
See Note 26 of the Group accounts for details.
The value of the Bonds as recognized in the balance sheet is as follows: $M Nominal value of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 1,100.0 Direct costs of issue 18.3 Net proceeds received on issue of the convertible bonds 1,081.7 Equity component 195.6 Liability component at date of issue 886.1 1 Interest charged 43.6 Interest paid 15.1 Liability component at December 31, 2007 914.6 Of which: Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 910.2 2 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 4.4 Liability component at December 31, 2007 914.6 1 Interest charged represents the accrued coupon and amortization of issue costs and discount.
2 Interest payable represents the coupon of 2.75% on the bonds.
H. Share capital As at December 31, 2007: $M Authorized 750,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each 64.6 10,000,000 Special voting shares of 0.00001 pence - 64.6 Called-up and allotted 556,972,011 ordinary shares of 5 pence each 48.7 As at December 31, 2006: Authorized 750,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each 64.6 10,000,000 Special voting shares of 0.00001 pence - 64.6 Called-up and allotted 506,745,968 ordinary shares of 5 pence each 43.7 191 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 H. Share capital continued Number $M As at January 1, 2007 506,745,968 43.7 1 New shares issued 42,883,721 4.3 Issued on exchange of exchangeable shares 1,669,461 0.2 Issued on exercise of options for cash consideration 4,326,454 0.4 Issued on exercise of warrants for cash consideration 1,346,407 0.1 As at December 31, 2007 556,972,011 48.7 Number $M As at January 1, 2006 495,733,782 42.7 Issued in Scheme of Arrangement 2,700,262 0.2 Issued on exercise of options for cash consideration 8,311,924 0.8 As at December 31, 2006 506,745,968 43.7 1 In February 2007, the Company raised $877.3 million by means of an equity placement to part fund the acquisition of New River.
A cash box placing is structured to enable a Company to obtain merger relief on the issue of placing shares, which relieves the company from the requirement to credit any amount paid up on the shares in excess of the nominal value to the share premium account.
Shire plc therefore transferred the excess over the nominal value totaling $873.0 million from a merger reserve to the profit and loss account, and this amount is available for distribution to shareholders.
Details of the Companys share capital is included in Note 31 of the Group accounts and the Companys shares under option are shown in Note 32 of the Group accounts 192 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 I.
Movement on reserves Distributable Reserves Equity component Share of Capital Profit and capital Share Treasury ExchangeOther convertible reduction loss premium shares able shares reserves debt reserve account 2007 2006 $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M January 1, 2007 43.7 125.7 94.8 59.5 22.7 - 2,914.5 15.3 3,056.0 3,093.1 i Shares issued 4.3 - -- - - - 873.0 877.3 123.7 Options exercised 0.4 29.9 - - - - - - 30.3 - Warrants exercised 0.1 12.8 - - - - - - 12.9 - Exchange of exchangeable shares 0.2 25.7 - 25.9 - - - - - 41.7 186.0 94.8 Purchase of treasury shares - - 186.0 - - - - - Capital contribution relating to share based payments - - -- 72.0 - - - 72.0 22.7 Share based compensation - - - - - - - 1.7 1.7 0.4 Dividends - - -- - - - 41.0 41.0 32.1 Equity component of convertible debt - - - - - 195.6 - - 195.6 - Profit loss for period - - - - - - - 21.6 21.6 15.3 As at December 31, 2007 48.7 194.1 280.8 33.6 94.7 195.6 2,914.5 840.0 4,040.4 3,056.0 i The Company obtained merger relief on the issue of placing shares and accordingly $873.0 million, which represents the amount paid up in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued, has ultimately been recorded to the profit and loss account, see Note H. At December 31, 2007 distributable reserves were $3,754.5 million 2006: $2,899.2 million.
193 Notes to the Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued As at December 31, 2007 J.
Commitments and Contingencies Guarantees The Company has guaranteed the external operating lease commitments of a subsidiary, in the amount of $77.1 million.
Multicurrency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement On February 20, 2007 the Company entered into a Multicurrency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
See Note 36 of the Group accounts for further detail.
