Significant accounting policies for the year ended 15 September 2007 Associated British Foods plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 15 September 2007 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group and the groups interest in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 6 November 2007.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
These are presented on pages 94 to 99.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that biological assets and certain financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Assets classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements under Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on experience.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by management in the application of Adopted IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment next year are discussed in note 31.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised from the period in which the estimates are revised.
The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are prepared for the 52 weeks ended 15 September 2007, except that, to avoid delay in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, the results of certain subsidiaries are included up to 31 August 2007.
The results of Illovo are included for the period to 30 September 2007 in line with Illovos local reporting date.
Adjustments are made as appropriate for significant transactions or events occurring between 31 August and 30 September.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all of its subsidiaries from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
The consolidated financial statements also include the groups share of the after-tax results of its jointly-controlled entities and associates on an equity-accounted basis from the point at which joint control or significant influence respectively commences, to the date that it ceases.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Jointly-controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, typically established by contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities in which the group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Business combinations On the acquisition of a business or an interest in a joint venture or associate, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Provisional fair values subsequently finalised are adjusted by restatement of the comparative period in which the acquisition occurred.
Revenue Revenue represents the net invoiced value of goods delivered to customers, excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products have been substantially transferred to the customer.
Revenue is stated net of price discounts, certain promotional activities and similar items.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1.
52 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The accounting policies set out below have been applied to all periods presented except for the following: The provisions of IAS 32 and IAS 39 were adopted from 18 September 2005, resulting in an opening implementation adjustment in the comparative period.
In light of British Sugars acquisition of additional sugar quota this year, the policy of excluding intangible amortisation from the calculation of adjusted profit and earnings has been refined.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets that arise on a business combination non-operating intangibles will continue to be excluded from adjusted profit and earnings measures.
Amortisation arising on intangibles that are purchased in the ordinary course of business operating intangibles is charged to operating profit.
No amortisation of operating intangibles has historically been excluded from adjusted profit and earnings, hence there has been no need for restatement of comparative periods.
Details of new accounting standards which came into force in the year are set out at the end of this note.
None of them required restatement of comparative periods, nor had any significant impact on the groups consolidated results or financial position.
Foreign currencies In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting differences are taken to the income statement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange other than substantial transactions which are translated at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
Differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of group companies, together with differences arising from the restatement of the net results of group companies from average or actual rates to rates at the balance sheet date, are taken to the translation reserve.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In addition the group has defined contribution plans and other unfunded post-employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of benefits accruing to employees over the year, plus any benefit improvements granted to members by the group during the year.
It also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on pension plan assets over the year, offset by a charge equal to the expected interest on plan liabilities over the year.
The difference between the market value of plan assets and the present value of plan liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
Any related deferred tax to the extent it is recoverable is disclosed separately in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any actuarial gains or losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Surpluses on defined benefit plans are recognised only to the extent that they are recoverable.
Movements in irrecoverable surpluses are recognised immediately as an actuarial gain or loss in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Other unfunded postemployment liabilities are accounted for as for defined benefit pension plans.
Share-based payments: employee benefits The Share Incentive Plan allows executives to receive allocations of shares to be distributed subject to attainment of certain financial performance criteria and typically after a three year performance period.
The fair value of the shares to be awarded is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the shares allocated is measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the shares were allocated.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
The Share Option Scheme 1994 and Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 allow executives to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items taken directly to reserves.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than those acquired in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 Significant accounting policies continued for the year ended 15 September 2007 A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities, except for other current investments and derivative financial instruments, are measured initially at fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs, and thereafter at amortised cost.
Other current investments classified under other financial assets are designated as at fair value through profit and loss because they are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with the groups risk management and investment strategy.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits and investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet, within other financial assets and liabilities, at their fair value.
Fair value is based on market rates or calculated using either discounted cash flow or option pricing models consistently applied for similar types of instrument.
These calculations take into consideration managements best estimates and assumptions based on market-related data at the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the groups economic exposure to financial and commodity risks.
The principal instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts, futures, swaps or options the hedging instrument.
The group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact on the groups income statement of changes in foreign exchange or interest rates and commodity prices, by matching the impact of the hedged risk and the hedging instrument in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives that are expected to be effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction the hedged item.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must meet several conditions with respect to documentation, probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
At the inception of the transaction, the group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
This includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific firm commitments or forecast transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at inception and at least quarterly thereafter, as to whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been, and are likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of the gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the hedging reserve.
The ineffective part of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within operating profit in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains and losses, previously recognised in equity, are included in the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, gains and losses previously recognised in equity are removed and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are related to an underlying exposure that no longer exists are taken directly to the income statement.
Hedges of the groups net investment in foreign operations take the form of either borrowings in the currency of the investments net assets or derivatives that hedge the translation exposure of the net investment.
The effective portion of fair value movements on hedging instruments are taken to the translation reserve within equity until the net investments are sold or otherwise disposed of.
The ineffective part of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within interest in the income statement.
The group economically hedges foreign currency exposure on recognised monetary assets and liabilities but does not seek hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Any derivatives that the group holds to hedge this exposure are classified as held for trading under other financial assets and liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of such derivatives and the foreign exchange gains and losses arising on the related monetary items are recognised within operating profit in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives that are embedded in other financial instruments or other non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value.
54 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Intangible assets other than goodwill Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that arise on business combinations and typically include intellectual property, brands, customer relationships and grower agreements.
Operating intangible assets are intangible assets acquired in the ordinary course of business and typically include software costs and expenditure in relation to the purchase of additional sugar quota.
Intangible assets other than goodwill that have a finite life are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Intangible assets other than goodwill that do not have a finite life are subject to an annual impairment test.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement within operating costs on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are generally deemed to be no longer than: Customer relationships up to 5 years Grower contracts up to 10 years Technology and brands up to 15 years Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 3 September 2004, goodwill represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired, including separately identified intangible assets.
Certain commercial assets associated with the acquisition of a business are not capable of being recognised in the acquisition balance sheet.
In such circumstances, goodwill is recognised, which may include, but is not necessarily limited to, workforce assets and the benefits of expected future synergies.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, represented by the net book value recorded under previous GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 3 September 2004 has not been reconsidered on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the groups non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangibles without a finite life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment charge is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment charges are recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
Impairment charges recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit or group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro rata basis.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Significant accounting policies continued for the year ended 15 September 2007 Reversals of impairment An impairment charge in respect of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment charge is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment charge had been recognised.
Property, plant & equipment Items of property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant & equipment sufficient to reduce them to their estimated residual value.
The estimated useful lives are generally deemed to be no longer than: Freehold buildings 66 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings sugar factories, yeast plants and mills 20 years other operations 12 years Vehicles 10 years Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset that is subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases.
Finance leases are recognised as assets of the group at the inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the income statement as a financing charge.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The benefit of lease incentives received is recognised in the income statement over the life of the lease.
Biological assets Cane roots and growing cane are stated at fair value determined on the following bases: Cane roots the escalated average cost, using appropriate inflation-related indices, of each year of planting adjusted for the remaining expected life.
Expected useful lives are currently 10 years in South Africa, 7 years in Zambia and 8 years in each of the other countries of operation.
Growing cane the estimated sucrose content valued at the estimated sucrose price for the following season, less the estimated costs for harvesting and transport.
When harvested, growing cane is transferred to inventory at fair value less costs to sell.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads, but not borrowing costs.
Cost is calculated on a first-in first-out basis.
New accounting policies The following standards or interpretations, issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Accounting for share-based payments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 May 2006.
Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits effective for annual reports beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
Amendment to IAS 21 Net investment in a foreign operation effective for annual reports beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial guarantee contracts effective for annual reports beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
The following standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB or the IFRIC, have not yet been endorsed by the EU except for IFRIC 10, and have not yet been adopted by the group: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
This standard contains new regulations concerning the disclosure of financial instruments.
IFRS 7 replaces and augments the disclosure requirements of IAS 32 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and must be applied to reporting periods that commence on or after 1 January 2007.
The impact of IFRS 7 on the groups financial instruments is not expected to be material.
56 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 IFRS 8 Operating segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This standard contains requirements for the disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments and also about the entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers.
The standard is concerned only with disclosure and replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting.
The group is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its financial statements, but it is not expected to be material.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to IAS 23 generally eliminates the option to expense borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as incurred, and instead requires the capitalisation of such borrowing costs as part of the cost of specific assets.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the amendment on the results and net assets of the group.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
The IFRIC makes it generally more difficult to recognise defined benefit pension surpluses and the related deferred tax liabilities on the balance sheet.
The group is currently assessing the impact of this interpretation on its financial statements.
The group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB, either applicable in the current year or not yet applicable, have, or will have, a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57
