Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing prepare the financial statements on the going the annual report and the group and parent concern basis unless it is inappropriate to company financial statements in accordance presume that the group and the parent with applicable law and regulations.
company will continue in business.
Company law requires the directors to prepare The directors are responsible for keeping group and parent company financial statements proper accounting records that disclose with for each financial year.
Under that law they are reasonable accuracy at any time the financial required to prepare the group financial statements position of the parent company and enable in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the them to ensure that its financial statements EU and applicable law and have elected to comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have prepare the parent company financial statements general responsibility for taking such steps as in accordance with UK Accounting Standards are reasonably open to them to safeguard the and applicable law UK Generally Accepted assets of the group and to prevent and detect Accounting Practice.
The group financial statements are required Under applicable law and regulations, the by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to directors are also responsible for preparing a present fairly the financial position and the directors report, directors remuneration report performance of the group: the Companies Act and corporate governance statement that 1985 provides in relation to such financial comply with that law and those regulations.
statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true The directors are responsible for the maintenance and fair view are references to their achieving and integrity of the corporate and financial a fair presentation.
information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation The parent company financial statements are and dissemination of financial statements may required by law to give a true and fair view of differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the state of affairs of the parent company and of the profit or loss of the parent company for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and 46 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007
