INTRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL SUMMARY The Smith & Nephew Group is a global medical devices business engaged in orthopaedic reconstruction, orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced wound management with revenue of over $3.3 billion in 2007.
Smith & Nephew plc is the parent company of the Smith & Nephew Group.
It is an English public limited company with its shares listed on the official list of the UK Listing Authority and it is traded on the London Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
This report is the Annual Report of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
It comprises in a single document the Annual Report and Accounts of the company in accordance with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
A summary report on the year, the Summary Financial Statement 2007, intended for the investor not requiringthe full detail of the Annual Report is available on Smith & Nephews corporate website at www.
com investors along with the electronic version of this Annual Report.
The Summary FinancialStatement includesa  and .
The Groups fiscal year ends on 31 December of each year.
References in this Annual Report to a particular year are to the fiscal year unless otherwise indicated.
Except as the context otherwise requires, Ordinary Share or sharerefer tothe OrdinaryShares of Smith& Nephewplcof US 20 each.
For the convenience of the reader, a Glossary of technical and financial terms used in this document is included on page 160.
The product names referred to in this document are identified by the use of capital letters and are trademarks ownedby orlicensedto members of the Smith& NephewGroup.
Key Performance Indicators The Report of the Directors includes a number of measures that management uses as key performance indicators.
Underlying growth in revenue is not presented in the accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS and is therefore a non Generally Accepted Accounting Principle non-GAAP measure.
The principal key  inthe AnnualReport are: Underlying growth in revenue Underlying growth in revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure which is a key performance indicator used by the Groups management in order to compare the revenue in a given year to that of the previous year on a like-for-like basis.
This is done by adjusting for the impact both of sales of products acquired in business combinations in the current year and the prior year and of movements in exchange rates.
An explanation of how thisnon-GAAPmeasure is calculated is presented inthe Business Overview onpage 28.
The Group believes that the tabular presentation and reconciliationof  tounderlying assists investors in their assessment of the Groups performance in each business segment and for the Group as a whole.
Underlying growth in revenue is considered by the Group to be an important measure of performance in terms of local functional currency since it excludes those items considered to be outside the influence of local management.
The Groups management uses this non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performance on both a business segment and a consolidated Group basis.
Revenue growth at constant currency is important in measuring business performance compared to competitors and compared to the growth of the market itself.
The Groups annual bonus incentive plans include an element which relates to revenue growth performance.
Targets are set and performance measured in constant currency excludingthe step-change impactof acquisitions.
The Group considers that the revenue from sales of products acquired in business combinations results in a step-up in growth in revenue in the year of acquisition that cannot be wholly attributed to local managements efforts with respect to the business in the year of acquisition.
Depending onthe timingofthe acquisitionthere will usually be a further step change in the following year.
A measure of growth excluding the effects of business combinations also allows senior management to evaluate the performance and relative impact of growth from the i existing business and growth from acquisitions.
The process of making business acquisitions is directed and approved fromthe  objectives and also funded centrally.
The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure is that it excludes certain factors, described on page i, which ultimately have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group compensates for this limitation by taking into account relative movements in exchange rates in its investment, strategic planning and resource allocation.
In addition, as the evaluation and assessment of business acquisitions is not within the control of local management, performance of acquisitions is monitored centrally for the first two years or until the business is integrated.
The Groups management considers that both the non-GAAP measure of underlying growth in revenue and the GAAP measure of growth in revenue are complementary measures neither of which management use exclusively.
Basic adjusted earnings per ordinary share EPSA, trading profit and adjusted attributable profit Growth in EPSA and trading profit are measures which present the trend growth in the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents these measures to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
EPSA growth and trading profit are also the key measures used for remunerating senior management in order to align the interests of senior management with those of investors.
The Groups internal financial reporting budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans, focuses primarily on profit and earningsbefore these items.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be adjusted and identified separately: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets: significant restructuring events: gains and losses arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses: and taxation thereon.
A reconciliation of attributable profit to adjusted attributable profit, which represents the numerator used in the EPSA calculation, is presented in Selected Financial Data on page 151.
An explanation of how trading profit is calculated ispresented inBusiness Overview onpage 29.
EPSA and trading profit are permitted measures under IFRS.
The material limitation of these measures is that they exclude significant income and costs that have a direct impact on current and prior years profit attributable to shareholders.
They do not, therefore, measure the overall performance of the Group presented by the GAAP measures of earnings per share and operating profit.
The Group considers that no single measure enables it to assess overall performance and therefore it compensates for the limitation of the adjusted earnings per share and trading profit measures by considering them in conjunction with their GAAP equivalents.
Gains or losses which are identified separately arise from irregular events or transactions.
Such events or transactions are authorised centrally and require a strategic assessment which includes consideration of financial returns and generation of shareholder value.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles will occur each year, whilst other excluded items arise  events that give rise to suchitems.
Presentation The results of the Group, as reported in US Dollars, are affected by movements in exchange rates between US Dollars and other currencies.
The Group used the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of non-US Dollar reporting companies into US Dollars.
The currencies which most influenced these translations inthe years coveredby this report were Sterling, Swiss Francand the Euro.
The Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew in this Annual Report are presented in US Dollars.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, certain parts of this Annual Report contain translations of amounts in US Dollars into Sterling at specified rates.
These translations should not be construed as representations that the US Dollar amounts actually represent such Sterling amounts or could be converted intoSterlingat the rate indicated.
Except as where stated otherwise, the translation of US Dollars and cents to Sterling and pence appearing in this Annual Report has been made at the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers in Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate on the date indicated.
TheAccountsof the Groupinthis AnnualReport are presented inmillions m unless otherwiseindicated.
Smith & Nephews corporate website, www.
com, gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website is not intended to be, and should not be regarded as being, part of thisAnnualReport.
