Contingent Liabilities The Group is party to legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
Other than as set out below the Group considers that these will not result in any material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations orfinancialposition.
In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
As at 31 December 2007 1,029 implants required revision surgery as a result of some patients not achieving adequate fixation and settlements had been agreed with patients in respect of 977 of these revisions.
A provision of $154m was established in 2004 for the estimated cost of settling patient claims.
In 2007, this provision was increased by $22m to reflect an increase in anticipated costs to settle outstandingand future claims.
The total amount paid out to 31 December 2007 in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses has been $195m of which $60m was recovered from the insurer who provided the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
A further $22m was received during 2007 from a successful legal settlement.
The balance of $113m is due from five other insurers who have declinedcoverage.
A provision of $41m remains available to cover the estimated cost of settling pending and future claims by patients assuming that insurance cover continues to be declined.
The key variables in assessing the adequacy of the provision are the number of revisions likely to arise and the average cost of settling patient claims for those revisions.
Whilst managements estimate of the most probable net cost remains $154m, it is possible that the eventual outcome may be different.
Based on independent statistical projections carried outin2006 ofrevisionsthroughto the endof2009 the rangeofpossible costs is$133mto$194m.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these revisions and related matters constitute forward looking statements that are subject to uncertainties,  outcomeofsettlements as compared to the assumptions made in estimating claim amounts.
Smith & Nephew cannot provide assurance that these estimates will prove correct.
Depending on the number and average cost of future settlements, costs maybe greater orless thanthe amountprovided.
The Group sponsors pension plans for its employees in most of the countriesin whichit has major operating companies.
Pension plans are established under the laws of the relevant country.
Funded plans are funded by the payment of contributions to, and the assets held by, separate trust funds or insurance companies.
In those countries where there is no company-sponsored pension plan, state benefits are considered adequate.
Employees retirement benefits are the subject of regular management review.
The Groups major defined benefit pension plans in the UK and US were closed to new employees in 2003 and replaced by defined contributionplans.
