INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS  Following shareholder approval in 2007, the Company will be sending paper copies of the Annual Report only to those shareholders that have elected to receive shareholder documentation by post.
ADS holders also will not be sent a hard copy unless they have elected to receive it.
This document, as well as the electronic Summary Financial Statement, will be available on the Groups website at www.
com and both ordinary shareholders and ADS holders can request a hard copy of the Annual Report, which will be provided free of charge.
The Group will continue to send the notice of the Annual General Meeting with an accompanying letter to ordinaryshareholders and ADS holders by post whichwillstate that the AnnualReport isavailable onthe Groups website.
Shareholders who have elected to receive the notice electronically are informed by e-mail of the availability ofthe documentsonthe Groups website.
In 2006, at the half year an Interim Report was published in a national newspaper and from 2007, following regulatory changes in the UK, the Interim Report has been made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website.
Quarterly reports are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website.
Hard copies are available on request.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, Summary Financial Statements and Interim Reports are also available on the Smith & Nephew website alongwithpress releases,  and audiowebcasts.
 There is a regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the executive directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-executive directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the directors at the AGM, at which the level of proxy votes received are advised, and the Company regularly responds toletters fromshareholders ona rangeof issues.
Financial Calendar Quarter Oneresults and AGM 1 May 2008 Payment of2007  9 May 2008 Half yearresults announced 7 August 2008 i Quarter Threeresults announced 6 November2008 Payment of2008 first interimdividend November2008 Fullyearresults announced February 2009 i AnnualReport available March2009 AnnualGeneral Meeting May 2009 i Dividend declaration dates.
Dividend The Ordinary Shares and ADSs will trade ex-dividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges respectively from 16 April 2008 and the record date will be 18 April 2008 in respect of the second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 7.38 per Ordinary Share to be paid on 9 May 2008.
The Sterling equivalent per Ordinary Share will be set on 18 April 2008.
Shareholders may elect to receive their  orUS Dollarsand the last day forelectionwillbe 16 April2008.
Ordinary Shares Payment ofcashdividends Shareholders who wish their dividends to be paid directly to a bank or building society and who have not already completed an electronic bank transfer mandate should contact the Companys registrar, Equiniti, formerly Lloyds TSBRegistrars.
 plan The Company has a dividend re-investment plan that offers shareholders, except those in North America, the opportunity to invest their cash dividends in further Smith & Nephew Ordinary Shares, which are purchased in 146 the market at competitive dealing costs.
Application forms for re-investing the 2007 second interim dividend and forfuturedividends are available  plan onbehalf ofthe Company.
UK capital gainstax Forthe purposes of UK capital gainstax the priceof OrdinaryShares on31 March1982was 35.04p.
Smith& Nephewshare price The Companys Ordinary Shares are quoted on the LSE under the symbol SN.
The Companys share price is available on the Smith & Nephew website www.
com whereitisupdated at intervals throughoutthe day.
It is also quoted dailyinUK nationalnewspapers.
Smith& NephewcorporateISA The Company has a corporate Individual Savings Account ISA, for UK shareholders, administered by the Companys registrar.
For information about this service if calling from the UK please contact their helpline on telephone 0871 384 2081 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony providers costs mayvary or 44 0 121 415 7072 if callingfromoutside the UK.
Shareview To view information about your shareholdings on the internet, register at www.
com, the registrars enquiryand portfolio management service for shareholders.
Whenyouhave registered forshareview youwillalso be able to register your proxy instructions online and elect to receive future shareholder communications via our website at www.
Shareholderenquiries For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and changes to personal details all shareholders should contact Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, UK on telephone 0871 384 2081 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony providers costs mayvary or 44 0 121 415 7072 if callingfromoutside the UK.
American DepositaryReceipts ADRs In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, and trade on the NYSE under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents five Ordinary Shares.
The Bank of New York is the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
For further information on Global BuyDIRECT contact: The Bank of New York on 1-888-BNY-ADRS toll-free or visit www.
The Company furnishes the Bank of New York, as depositary, with copies of this annual report containing Consolidated FinancialStatements and the opinionexpressed thereon by its independent auditors.
Suchfinancial statements are prepared under IFRS.
Upon receipt thereof, the Bank of New York will mail all such reports to recorded holders who have elected to receive hard copy versions.
The Company also furnishes to The Bank of New York all notices of shareholders meetings and other reports and communications that are made generally available to shareholders of the Company.
The Bank of New York makes such notices, reports and communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and mails to all recorded holders of ADSs  meetings received by TheBankof NewYork.
Smith& NephewADS price The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the official New York Stock Exchange website at www.
com andisquoted dailyinthe WallStreet Journal.
ADS Enquiries All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to The Bank of NewYork, PO Box11258, ChurchStreet Station, NewYork, NY10286-1258, USA.
147 Investor Information Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting is to be held on 1 May 2008 at 2pm at The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AG, UK.
Notice of the meeting has been sent to all shareholders with an accompanyingletter fromthe Chairman.
 and Registeredoffice The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered office address is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
com Advisors Solicitors: Ashurst LLP Freshfields BruckhausDeringer Auditors: Ernst & YoungLLP Stockbrokers: JP MorganCazenove UBS 148
