NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS 1.
General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the Group are to develop, manufactureand market medicaldevices inthe sectors oforthopaedic reconstruction, orthopaedictrauma and clinicaltherapies, endoscopyandadvanced woundmanagement.
Presentation  The Group changed its presentational currencyfrom Pounds Sterling to US Dollars with effect from 1 January 2006 as at that time the Groups principal assets and operations were in the US and the majority of its operations were conducted in US Dollars.
Additionally, the Company redenominated its share capital into US Dollars on 23 January 2006 and will retain distributable reserves and declare dividends in US Dollars.
Consequently its functional currency became the US Dollar.
This lowers the Groups exposure to currency translation risk on its revenue, profits and equity.
Financial information for prior periods was restated from PoundsSterling intoUS  21.
The cumulative translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2003 i. e. the transition date to IFRS.
All subsequent movements comprising differences on the retranslation of the opening net assets of non US Dollar subsidiaries and hedging instruments have been charged to the cumulative translation reserve included in Other Reserves.
Share capital and share premium were translated at the rate of exchange on the date ofredenomination.
As a result of the above, the presentational currency of the Group i. e. US Dollars for 2005 is different from the functionalcurrencyof the Company i. e. PoundsSterling.
Prior to 2006 the Group protected its equity, as measured in Pounds Sterling, by matching non-Sterling assets with non-Sterling liabilities principally by the use of currency swaps.
Exchange movements on both the non-Sterling net assets and the hedging instruments were recorded as movements in Other Reserves.
As hedging was effective up to the date of the change in functional currency, the Group has continued to present these as movements in Other Reserves as this hedging is regarded as valid in the comparator years.
In 2005 the retranslation of the net Pounds Sterling assets results in the large exchange differences showninthe GroupStatement of RecognisedIncomeand Expense.
As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 1985, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2007.
The Group has also prepared its accounts in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as at 31December2007.
The Group applied IFRS 1 First Time Adoption for International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005 to provide a starting point for reporting under IFRS.
The Groups date of transition to IFRS was 1 January 2003 and all comparative information in the financial statements was restated to reflect the Groups adoption of IFRS, except  underIFRS 1.
IFRS 1 required an entity to comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date for its first IFRS financial statements.
As a general principle, IFRS 1 required the standards effective at the reporting date to be applied retrospectively.
However, retrospective application was prohibited in some areas, particularly where retrospective application would require judgements by management about past conditions after the outcome of the particular transaction is already known.
A number of optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS were granted where the cost of compliance was deemed to exceed the benefits to users of the financial statements.
Where applicable, the options selected by management are set outinNote2.
In the current year, the Group has altered the presentation of its income statement to present items by function as permitted by IAS 1.
The presentation of prior years has been amended to conform to the current yearpresentation.
