GLOSSARYOF TERMS Unless the context indicatesotherwise, the followingterms have the meaningsshownbelow: Term Meaning ADR In the US, The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of ADSs evidenced by  ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of  ADSs.
Advanced WoundManagement A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin products wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable films and polymers to products providing active wound healing by .
AGM AnnualGeneral Meeting of the Company.
Arthroscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal applicationsbeingthe kneeand shoulder.
Basis Point One hundredthof onepercentage point.
Bio-absorbable Bio-absorbable materials: Materials used in surgical procedures which degrade and are absorbed by the body after a period of time, thus removingthe need to surgicallyremovethem.
Chronicwounds Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores and diabetic footulcers.
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwiserequires.
CompaniesAct Companies Act 1985 or Companies Act 2006, as amended, of England and Wales.
Digitaloperatingroom The digital operating room is a custom-designed operating room solution providing auto-video connectivity, medical device control, integration with hospital information systems and surgical documentation devices for medical facilities to help improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and, by extension, patient care.
EBITA Earningsbefore interest, tax and amortisation.
Endoscopy Endoscopy allows surgeons to operate through coin-sized openings in the body, rather thanlarge incisions.
Endoscopyproducts A product group comprising specialised viewing and access devices, surgical instruments and powered equipment used in minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Through a small incision surgeons are able to see insidethe bodyusinga monitorand .
Euroor References to the commoncurrencyused in the majority of the countriesof the EuropeanUnion.
External fixation The use of wires or pins transfixed through bone to hold a frame to the positionof a fracture.
Financialstatements Refers to the & Nephewplc.
FTSE 100 Index of the largest 100 listed companies on the London Stock Exchange by market capitalisation.
160 Term Meaning Fracturecasting A product group comprising products that are used externally to immobilize a bone fracture or damaged joint, usually made of plaster of paris orsyntheticmaterials.
GrouporSmith& Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwiserequires.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations as adopted by the EU and as issued by the  Board.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and as issued by the  Board.
Insufflation The use of carbon dioxide to inflate body cavities during endoscopic surgeryto enable surgeonsto viewinternalorgans.
 Stainless steel or titanium implants shaped like a nail implanted in the  fractures.
LSE LondonStockExchange  A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in younger patients whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip head substantially preserved.
Negative Pressure WoundTherapy A technology used to treat chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, pressure sores and post operative wounds through the application of  to anopenwound.
NYSE NewYorkStockExchange  Any product that is primarily intended to act as a scaffold and or actively stimulates bonegrowth.
Orthopaedicproducts Products that comprise implants, devices and systems to replace diseased or injured hip, knee and shoulder joints, and trauma devices such as rods, pins, screws, plates and external fixationused totreat bonefractures.
OXINIUM OXINIUM material is an advanced load bearing technology.
It is created through a proprietary manufacturing process that enables zirconium to absorb oxygen and transform to a ceramic on the surface, resulting in a material that incorporates the features of ceramic and metal.
Management believes that OXINIUM material used in the production of components of knee and hip implants exhibits unique performance characteristics due to its hardness, low-frictionand resistance .
PoundSterling, Sterling, pence References to UK currency.
orp Reconstruction Joint replacement systems for knees, hips and shoulders and support products such as computer assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgerytechniques.
Repair A product group within endoscopy comprising specialized devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within endoscopy comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand instruments forresectingtissue.
Traditionalwoundcare Product group comprising medical textile products, adhesive tapes and fixative sheets to  productstothe body.
161 Investor Information Term Meaning  Trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures including rods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Clinical therapies products comprise a joint fluid therapy for pain reduction of the knee and an ultrasoundtreatment to accelerate the .
UK United Kingdomof Great Britainand NorthernIreland.
UK GAAP  inthe United Kingdom.
US United States of America.
US Dollars, US $ orcents References to US currency.
US GAAP  inthe United States ofAmerica.
Visualisation Products within endoscopy comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcastingsystems foruse .
Woundbed An area of healthydermal and epidermal tissue ofa wound.
