Post Balance Sheet Events Persuant to the share buy back programme detailed in Note 29 of the Notes to the Group Accounts, in the period between 1 January 2008 and 12 March 2008 6,579,000 Ordinary Shares had been purchased at a costof$79m.
New Accounting Standards New  The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations, which are relevant to the Group, have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB but are not yet effective or have not yet been adopted by the Group.
Unless otherwise stated, none is likely to have a material effect on the Groups results of .
In November 2006, the IASB issued IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is required to be implemented in the financial year commencing 1 January 2009.
This IFRS requires segment information to be reported on the same basis as used by management when evaluating performance.
This IFRS was endorsed by the EU in November2007.
In November 2006, the IASB issued IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions which is required to be implemented in the financial year commencing 1 January 2008.
This interpretation provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving group entities should be accounted for as equity settled orcashsettled transactions.
ThisIFRIC was endorsed by the EU inJune2007.
In March 2007, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs which the Group will adopt in the financial year commencing1 January 2009.
This amendment removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The Group currently has this policy so it will therefore be required to capitalise borrowing costs as part ofthe cost of suchassets.
Thisamendment has notyet been endorsed bythe EU.
In July 2007, the IASB issued IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
This interpretation is required to be implemented in the financial year commencing 1 January 2008 and provides guidance regarding recognition of assets in relation to a surplus ofa defined benefit pensionscheme.
ThisIFRIC has notyet been endorsed bythe EU.
In September 2007, the IASB issued a revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which the Group will adopt in the financial year commencing 1 January 2009.
This revised standard requires information in financial statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and introduces a statement of comprehensiveincome.
Thisrevised standard has notyet been endorsed bythe EU.
