Accounting Policies continued Adjusted Earnings Per Share Adjusted earnings per share is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers as affect the Groups short-term profitability.
Adjusted attributable profit is the numerator used for this measure.
A reconciliation from attributable profit to adjusted attributable profit is included in Note 12 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded when arriving at adjusted attributable profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets: significant restructuring events: gains and losses arising from legal disputes and uninsuredlosses:andtaxation thereon.
3 a. BusinessSegmental Analysis For management purposes, the Group is organised into four business segments Reconstruction, Trauma and Clinical Therapies, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
These business segments are the basis onwhichthe Groupreports its primarysegment information.
Responsibility for the Groups spinal products was transferred from the Endoscopy business to the Trauma and Clinical Therapies business with effect from 1 January 2007.
Spinal products are now reported within the Trauma and Clinical Therapies segment and comparative periods have been amended to conform to currentyear presentation.
Trading profit is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers as affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets: significant restructuring events: and gains and losses arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
An impairment loss of $1m was recognised within operating profit in 2007 2006 nil, 2005 $32m.
The impairment loss of $1m in 2007 2005 $32m was recognised in administrative expenses 2005 $24m administrative expenses and $8m cost of goods sold and can segmentally be allocated as follows: Reconstruction $1m 2005 Endoscopy$5m and Advanced WoundManagement $27m.
Capital expenditure in the Group Cash Flow Statement comprises additions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets net of $7m 2006 nil, 2005 nil of assets capitalised under finance leases and $11m 2006 nil, 2005 nil of assets transferred into property, plant and equipment frominventory.
The $16m in 2006 relates to the acquisition related costs and the $41m in 2005 relates to the restructuring and .
