SHAREHOLDER RETURN Dividend History Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000 the Group adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected Financial Data, to ordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004 the dividend increased in line with inflation and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy from that of increasing dividends in line with inflation to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars the Board re-affirmed its policy of increasing the dividendby10% a year inUS Dollarterms.
Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its Ordinary Shares in each year since 1937.
An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in August and paid in November.
Up to 2004 a final dividend for each year was recommended by the Board of Directors in the following February and paid in May after approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Following shareholder approval in December 2005, the directors may declare and pay interim dividends.
In 2006 and 2007 shareholders received two interim dividends andare expected to  in2008.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financialconditionof the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out inSpecial NoteRegarding  and Risk Factors.
The following table shows the dividends on each Ordinary Share as increased by the associated UK tax credit of 10%, but before deduction of withholding taxes for the fiscal years 2003 through 2007.
The 2007 second interim dividend will be payable on 9 May 2008.
All dividends, upto the , weredeclared in pence per Ordinary Share and translated into US cents per share at the Noon Buying Rate on the payment date.
All dividends from the second interim dividend for 2005 have been declared in US cents per Ordinary Share.
144 Share Prices The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest and lowest sales pricesofADSs as reported onthe NewYorkStockExchange compositetape.
