MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The following summarises certain material rights of holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares under the material provisions of the Companys memorandum and articles of association and English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 and the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
The Companys Ordinary Shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be required to make additional contributions of capital in respect of the Companys shares in the future.
In the followingdescription, a shareholder is the person registered inthe Companysregister ofmembers as the .
The Company is incorporated under the name Smith & Nephew plc and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 324357.
The fourth clause of the Companys memorandum of association provides that its objects include to carry on business as an investment holding company, to carry on all or any of the businesses of dealers in and manufacturers of surgical dressings and instruments, pharmaceutical preparations or articles, proprietary articles of all kinds, surgical and scientific apparatus and materials of all kinds and buyers and sellers of goods of all kinds.
The memorandum grants to the Company a range of corporate capabilities to effect these objects.
Directors Under the Companys articles of association, a director may not vote in respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he, or any person connected with him, has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company.
This is subject to certain exceptions relating to proposals a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred on behalf of the Company, b indemnifying a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities in which he will be interested as an underwriter, d concerning another body corporate in which the director is beneficially interested in less than one percent of the issued shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate, e relating to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally with other employees and f relating to any insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of directors of the Company in respect of actions undertakenas directors and orofficers of the Company.
A director shall not vote or be counted in any quorum concerning his own appointment or terms of his appointment.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all monies borrowed after deducting cash and current asset investments bythe Companyand its subsidiaries shall notexceed the sumof $6,500,000,000.
Any director who has been appointed by the directors since the previous Annual General Meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director, holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting and then shall be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
The other directors retire and are eligible for re-appointment at the third annual general meeting after the meeting at which they were last re-appointed.
The directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Board or the shareholders.
Any director attaining 70 years of age retires at the next Annual General Meeting following their birthday.
Such a director may be re-appointed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Directors are not required to hold any shares ofthe Companyby wayof qualification.
RightsAttaching to Ordinary Shares Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys Ordinary Shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom and by the Companies Act 1985.
Holders of the Companys Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive final dividends as may be declared by the directors and approved by the shareholders in general meeting, rateable according to the amounts paid up on such shares, provided that the dividend cannot exceed the amount recommendedby the directors.
155 Investor Information The Companys Board of Directors may declare such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified by the Companys financial position.
If authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Board may also direct payment of a dividend in whole or in part by the distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid up shares ordebentures of the Company.
Any dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and willrevert to the Company.
Therehave been nomaterial modificationsto the rightsof shareholders underthe Articles during2007.
Voting Rightsof Ordinary Shares Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded and held.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each Ordinary Share held by that shareholder.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the chairmanof the meeting: at least five shareholders present orby proxyentitled to vote at the meeting: any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rightsofall shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting:or any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferringthat right.
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one, as above.
The necessary quorum for a general meeting is two shareholders present in person or by proxy carrying the right tovote uponthe business to be transacted.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the processing and passing of resolutions of whichthere are three kindsof whichthe most frequent willbe ordinaryorspecial resolutions: an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the re-election of directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration of dividends other than interim dividends, the appointment and re-appointment ofauditors, the increaseof authorisedshare capital orthe grant of authoritytoallot shares: a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending the Companys memorandum and articles of association, disapplyingstatutory  Companysname:and an extraordinary resolution, which includes resolutions modifying the rights of any class of the Companys shares at a meeting of the holders of such class or relating to certain matters concerning the Companys windingup.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes of those persons voting at the meetingat whichthere is a quorum.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the persons votingat the meetingat whichthere is a quorum.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled tocast the decidingvote inadditionto anyothervote hemayhave as proxy.
Annual General Meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
Other meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days for the passing of a special resolution and 14 days for any other resolution, depending on the nature of the business to be transacted.
The days of delivery or receipt of notice are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of the business to be transacted.
Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors.
Members with 10% of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company may requisitionthe Boardto convenea meeting.
156 Variation of Rights If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in writing of holders of three-quarters in value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at an Extraordinary General Meeting apply, except that the quorumistobe the numberof persons whichmust be twoormore whoholdorrepresent byproxynotless than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class and at any such meeting a poll may be demanded in writing by any five persons who hold or represent by proxy not less than one fortieth of the nominal value of the shares ofthat class.
Rightsin a Winding-Up Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balanceofassets available fordistribution: after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, whether statutorily preferred :and subject toanyspecial rightsattachingto anyotherclass of shares: is to be distributed among the holders of Ordinary Shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of any extraordinary resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders the wholeoranypart of the Companysassets inkind.
Limitations on Voting and Shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys memorandum or articles of association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitationsthat wouldgenerallyapply to all of the Companysshareholders.
Transfers of Shares The Board may refuse to register the transfer of shares held in certificated form which a are not fully paid provided that it shall not exercise this discretion in such a way as to prevent stock market dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis, b are not duly stamped or duly certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty, lodged at the Transfer Office or at such other place as the Board may appoint and save in the case of a transfer by a person to whom no certificate was issued in respect of the shares in question accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates, and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so to do, c are in respect of more than one class of shares or d are in favour of not more than fourtransferees.
DeferredShares Following the redenomination of share capital on 23 January 2006 the Ordinary Shares nominal value became US 20 each.
There were no changes to the rights or obligations of the Ordinary Shares.
In order to comply with the Companies Act 1985, a new class of Sterling shares was created, Deferred Shares, of which 50,000 were issued and allotted as fullypaid to the ChiefExecutive Officer thoughthe Boardreserves the righttotransfer them to another member of the Board should it so wish.
These Deferred Shares have no voting or dividend rights and on winding up only are entitled to repayment at nominal value only if all ordinary shareholders have received the nominalvalue of theirshares plus anadditional$1,000 each.
Amendments The Company does not have any special rules about amendments to its articles of association beyond those imposedbylaw.
