Company Information REGISTERED OFFICE Joint Financial Advisors and Corporate Brokers SOCO International plc Merrill Lynch International St Jamess House Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 23 King Street 2 King Edward Street London London SW1Y 6QY EC1A 1HQ United Kingdom United Kingdom Registered in England Citigroup Global Markets Limited Company No.
3300821 33 Canada Square Canary Wharf wEBSITE London www.
co. uk E14 5LB United Kingdom COmPANy SECRETARy Cynthia B Cagle Registrar Equiniti Limited FINANCIAL CALENDAR Aspect House Group results for the year to 31 December are announced in Spencer Road March April.
The Annual General Meeting is held during the second Lancing quarter.
Half year results to 30 June are announced in August.
BN99 6DA Additionally, the Group will issue an interim management statement United Kingdom between 10 weeks after the beginning and six weeks before the end of each half year period.
Solicitors Ashurst ADvISORS Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street Auditors London Deloitte & Touche LLP EC2A 2HA London, United Kingdom United Kingdom Bankers The Royal Bank of Scotland International PO Box 64 Royal Bank House 71 Bath Street St Helier Jersey JE4 8PJ Channel Islands JPMorgan Chase 125 London Wall London EC2Y 5AY United Kingdom 76 SOCO at a Glance $32.3m 6,316 post tax profits BOPD We are an international oil and gas exploration and production company headquartered in London and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has designated core areas in South East Asia, the Middle East and West Africa regions and employs a strategy for building shareholder value through a portfolio of oil and gas assets by focusing on: RECOGNISING OPPORTUNITY 4 OVERVIEW By cultivating relationships and having early access 02 SOCO Around the World into regions, projects or situations where there is 06 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement potential to create significant upside through the 4 BUSINESS REVIEW Companys participation.
12 Review of Operations 20 Financial Review 24 Corporate Responsibility 4 GOVERNANCE CAPTURING POTENTIAL 30 Board of Directors By adding the Companys managerial, technical and 32 The Annual Report of the Directors 36 Corporate Governance commercial expertise to progress activities through 42 The Directors Remuneration Report the formative stages or through periods of difficulty.
4 FINANCIALS This document includes certain forward-looking statements regarding the SOCO Group.
By their nature, forward-looking 50 Independent Auditors Report 51 Consolidated Income Statement statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions 52 Balance Sheets that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from REALISING VALUE 53 Cash Flow Statements and Statements of those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
By locking in returns, regardless of the phase of the Recognised Income and Expense These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely 54 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements project life cycle, once the Companys capability to affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events 71 Five Year Summary add value begins to diminish.
Forward-looking statements contained in this document regarding past trends or activities should not be taken 72 Reserve Statistics as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the 73 Notice of Meeting future.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking 76 Company Information statements, which speak as only of the date of this document.
Except as required by law, the Company is under no obligation to publicly update or keep current the forward-looking statements contained in this document or to publicly correct any inaccuracies which may become apparent in such forward-looking statements.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Recognising opportunity Capturing potential Realising value SOCO International plc St Jamess House 23 King Street London SW1Y 6QY United Kingdom T: 44 0 20 7747 2000 F: 44 0 20 7747 2001 www.
co. uk Annual Report and Accounts 2007
