Statement of Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation The parent company financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
No profit and loss account has been presented for the Company as permitted by Section 230 Companies Act 1985.
The Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC, which are publicly available.
Consequently the Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 Cash Flow Statements Revised 1996.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS8 Related Party Transactions from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the same group.
Turnover Turnover represents fees charged excluding VAT by the Company for services provided relating to its principal activities.
Turnover is recognised when the services are provided in full.
Fixed Asset Investments Fixed asset investments are included at cost, less amounts written off in respect of diminution in value.
Deferred Taxation The Company accounts for taxation, which is deferred or accelerated by reason of timing differences which have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
Finance Costs Finance costs are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the debt so that the amount charged is at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Finance costs include issue costs, which are initially recognised as a reduction in the proceeds of the associated capital instrument.
Financial Instruments and Derivatives The Companys accounting policy for derivatives is to defer and only recognise in the Company profit and loss account gains and losses on hedges of revenues, operating payments and capital expenditure to match the underlying transactions.
Interest rate cap agreements taken out are recorded at cost in the balance sheet and amortised over the period of the agreements.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate cap agreements are recognised in the net interest payable charge on an accruals basis.
Debt Instruments Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds adjusted to amortise the issue cost of debt evenly over the term of the debt.
Trade Payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividend Distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys Shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 79
