Shareholder information Financial calendar Brokers Hoare Govett Limited Annual General Meeting 16 May 2008 Merrill Lynch Record date for 2007 final dividend 30 May 2008 2007 Final dividend payable 20 June 2008 Corporate finance advisers 2008 First half trading update 10 July 2008 Merrill Lynch 2008 Interim results 22 August 2008 Shareholder relations advisers 2008 Preliminary results February 2009 Makinson Cowell Company secretary Financial PR advisers R J Stephens, FCIS FD Registered office Registrars Spectris plc Equiniti Limited Station Road Aspect House Egham Spencer Road Surrey Lancing TW20 9NP West Sussex England BN99 6DA Tel: 44 0 1784 470470 The registrars provide a range of shareholder services on-line at Email: info@spectris.
co. uk Company registered in England, No.
2025003 Share price information The companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Auditors Exchange.
The latest share price is available via the companys KPMG Audit Plc website at www.
com Bankers E-mail news service Royal Bank of Scotland Plc To receive details of press releases and other announcements as they are issued, register with the e-mail alert service on the Solicitors companys website at www.
com Ashurst Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners Printed in England by the colourhouse, a carbon neutral company Acknowledgements: The case study on page 11 is abridged from an article in the September 2007 issue of AWE International by Dr Gary Pritchard, PANalytical, and Dr Scott C Stark, Australian Antarctic Division AAD.
Photography on page 17 courtesy of the Bureau of Reclamation, Lower Colorado Region.
This report is printed on Revive Special Silk, which is produced using at least 30% fide-inked post-consumer recovered fibre with the remainder being wood fibre from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
The paper is manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 certificate for environmental management and the pulp is bleached using either totally chlorine free or elemental chlorine free processes.
Spectris plc February 2008 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 85 Directory of companies Materials Analysis Malvern PANalytical Particle Measuring Instruments X-ray analytical Systems Analytical systems equipment for Micro-contamination for materials industrial and monitoring systems characterisation, from scientific applications.
for ultraclean bulk powders to environments and nanomaterials and manufacturing macromolecules.
Test and Measurement Brel & Kjr HBM Sound & Vibration Load cells, Transducers, sound transducers, strain level meters and gauges, signal analysers for sound conditioning and data and vibration acquisition systems, measurement.
test and measurement software and services.
In-line Instrumentation Beta LaserMike Brel & Kjr Vibro BTG Group Fusion UV Systems NDC Infrared Servomex Non-contact, laserMachine condition Instruments, Ultraviolet light Engineering Gas analysers, gas based dimensional monitoring systems coating and creping processing technology Infrared, X-ray, analysis systems and measuring and flaw and maintenance technology for the for curing isotopic and microwave transducers.
pulp and paper photo-sensitive inks, sensors for on-line dimensional gauging.
coatings and measurement of adhesives.
moisture, composition, film thickness and coat weight.
Industrial Controls Microscan Red Lion Controls High speed industrial Operator interfaces, bar code scanning signal conditioners, and decoding temperature instruments.
controllers, counters, rate indicators and panel meters.
