qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 50 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 1 Accounting policies Speedy Hire Plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated and Parent Company financial statements were authorised for issuance on 21 May 2007.
Statement of compliance Both the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting standards not yet effective These consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related IFRIC interpretations in issue that have been endorsed by the European Commission and are effective as at 31 March 2007.
The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has introduced a number of accounting standards which have been adopted by the European Commission, and are available for early adoption.
However, the Group has not applied these in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The relevant standards and interpretations that will impact the Group are as follows: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosure is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, although early adoption is encouraged.
The Group has decided not to adopt the standard in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The application of IFRS 7 in 2007 would not have affected the balance sheet or income statement as the standard is concerned only with disclosure.
The Group and Parent Company plan to adopt it in the financial statements for the year ending on 31 March 2008.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the hire.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Transfers of risks and rewards are consistent across all hire contracts.
Transfer occurs when the product is received at the customers location.
Depreciation Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment is charged to the income statement so as to write off the cost or valuation of the assets over the estimated useful lives after taking account of estimated residual values.
Residual values are reassessed annually.
Hire equipment assets are depreciated so as to write them down to their residual value over their normal working lives which range from three to seven years depending on the category of the asset.
Losses and disposals of such assets are accounted for on a FIFO basis.
50 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348
