qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 50 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 1 Accounting policies Speedy Hire Plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated and Parent Company financial statements were authorised for issuance on 21 May 2007.
Statement of compliance Both the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
On publishing the Parent Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting standards not yet effective These consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related IFRIC interpretations in issue that have been endorsed by the European Commission and are effective as at 31 March 2007.
The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has introduced a number of accounting standards which have been adopted by the European Commission, and are available for early adoption.
However, the Group has not applied these in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The relevant standards and interpretations that will impact the Group are as follows: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosure is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, although early adoption is encouraged.
The Group has decided not to adopt the standard in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The application of IFRS 7 in 2007 would not have affected the balance sheet or income statement as the standard is concerned only with disclosure.
The Group and Parent Company plan to adopt it in the financial statements for the year ending on 31 March 2008.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the hire.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Transfers of risks and rewards are consistent across all hire contracts.
Transfer occurs when the product is received at the customers location.
Depreciation Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment is charged to the income statement so as to write off the cost or valuation of the assets over the estimated useful lives after taking account of estimated residual values.
Residual values are reassessed annually.
Hire equipment assets are depreciated so as to write them down to their residual value over their normal working lives which range from three to seven years depending on the category of the asset.
Losses and disposals of such assets are accounted for on a FIFO basis.
50 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 51 The principal rates and methods of depreciation used are as follows: Hire equipment Tools and general equipment between three and seven years straight-line Surveying equipment five years straight-line Power equipment between five to ten years straight-line Accommodation and storage units between ten to fifteen years straight-line Non-hire assets Freehold buildings, and long leasehold improvements over 50 years straight-line Short leasehold property improvement over the period of the lease Fixtures and fittings and office equipment excluding IT 25%45% per annum reducing balance IT equipment and software between three to five years straight-line, or over the period of software licence Motor vehicles 25% per annum reducing balance Start-up expenses and lease incentives Legal and start-up expenses incurred in respect of new hire depots are written off as incurred.
Premiums paid or incentives received including rent-free periods extending beyond the depots opening date on the acquisition of trading locations are written off over the period of the lease.
Leases Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
These assets are included in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value or present value of minimum lease payments at inception and are depreciated accordingly.
The capital element of the corresponding financing commitments is included in the balance sheet.
Lease payments in respect of finance leases are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Financing income and costs Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, and gains and losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the Income Statement see below.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest method.
Interest payable on borrowings includes a charge in respect of attributable transaction costs, which are recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the leases implicit interest rate.
Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 52 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 Segment reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services business segment or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
The Group primarily analyses its activities based on class of business.
Its operational activities are undertaken within the UK and Republic of Ireland, and accordingly the Groups operating activities are derived from only one geographical segment.
Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable overheads.
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, those components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Intangible assets As part of its transition to IFRS, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 April 2004.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Groups previous accounting framework, UK GAAP.
Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
In respect of acquisitions since 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, and is included as an intangible asset.
It is allocated to cashgenerating units and is tested annually for impairment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses see note 10.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives.
Intangible assets excluding goodwill are amortised from the date that they are available for use.
For a number of its acquisitions, the Group has identified intangible assets in respect of sole supply contracts, customer lists and brands.
The values of these intangibles are recognised as part of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, and are amortised over their useful lives, which are estimated as follows: Sole supply contracts over the unexpired period of the contracts, up to five years Customer lists ten years Brand between four and ten years Impairments The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than inventory and deferred tax, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows of the identified cash-generating units are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
52 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 53 A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and groups.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit or group of units on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where appropriate, overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes: however, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments and the movement in fair value is recognised in the Income Statement.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires, no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, is sold, is terminated or is exercised, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised.
In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount less impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and overnight deposits.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Translation of foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited directly to the Foreign Currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences become recognised in the income statement in the period in which the subsidiary undertaking is disposed.
Employee benefits Pension schemes The Group offers a stakeholder pension arrangement to employees and in addition makes contributions to personal pension schemes for certain employees.
Obligations for contributions to these defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 54 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2007 Share-based payment transactions The Group operates a number of schemes which allow certain employees to acquire shares of the Company, including the Performance Plan, the Co-investment Plan, and the Employee Share Scheme.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured, using an appropriate option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to total shareholder return not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Significant judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In relation to the Groups Property Plant and Equipment note 11, useful economic lives and residual values of assets have been established using historical experience and an assessment of the nature of the assets involved.
Assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to potential impairment of the carrying value of such assets.
No circumstances have been identified to suggest that this is the case.
Goodwill is required to be valued annually to assess the requirement for impairment.
Other intangible assets are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that the carrying value of such assets is not supportable.
Impairment testing on goodwill is carried out in accordance with the analysis described in note 10.
Such calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and long-term growth prevalent in particular markets as well as short-term business performance.
The Directors draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these judgements.
The charge for share-based payment is calculated in accordance with the analysis described in note 20.
The option valuation models used require subjective assumptions to be made including the future volatility of the Companys share price, expected dividend yields, risk-free interest rates and expected staff turnover.
The Directors draw upon a variety of external sources to aid in the determination of the appropriate data to use in such calculations.
54 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348
