Glossary 3G Third Generation Third generation of mobile communications following first generation analogue and second digital.
4G Fourth Generation Future generation of mobile communications following 3G.
10 Gig E 10-gigabit Ethernet Networking technology enabling Ethernet data to be transported at 10 gigabits per second.
A-GPS Assisted GPS A system utilising GPS, assisted by the cellular signal to a mobile device, to more quickly pinpoint its location.
ATM Asynchronous High-speed transmission technology used for transporting multiple simultaneous services Transfer Mode voice, data and multimedia applications with high quality of service levels.
Broadband Generic term for devices with a bandwidth greater than one megabit per second.
CDMA Code Division Technology allowing communications circuits to carry multiple conversations simultaneously, Multiple Access thus increasing its capacity.
DSL Digital Subscriber Line Technology that uses existing telephone copper lines to transport high-bandwidth data such as multimedia and video to service subscribers.
Ethernet A family of networking technologies developed for local area networks and now migrating to metro area networks.
EVDOrA Evolution-Data Optimised Data only revision A is a telecommunications standard for the wireless transmission of data through radio revision A or Evolution signals, typically for broadband Internet access.
Fibre-to-the-home FTTH A form of fibre-optic communication delivery in which the optical signal reaches the end users living or office space.
Fibre-to-the-node FTTN A telecommunication architecture based on fibre-optic cables run to a cabinet serving a neighbourhood.
Galileo The informal name for the European Global Navigation Satellite System, a system that will offer users anywhere in the world near pinpoint geographic positioning when it becomes fully operational.
GPS Global A system for determining location and height at any point on the earths surface.
A receiver Positioning System uses minute differences in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate these positions and altitudes.
IMS Internet protocol multimedia A standardised next-generation architecture for telecoms operators who want to provide mobile and fixed subsystem multimedia services.
Internet IP telephony Generic term used to describe various approaches to running voice telephony over IP Internet Protocol.
IP Internet Protocol Data protocol used by many networking devices to facilitate and control the flow of data.
IPMax hardware probe A triple play services test unit designed for the FTTN environment that works in combination with SmartSight Central software to provide data, VoIP and video customer emulation and diagnostics.
IPTV Internet Protocol television The delivery of programming by video stream encoded as a series of IP packets.
IPv6 Internet Protocol version 6 A network layer for packet-switched Internet.
It is designated as the successor of IPv4, the current version of the Internet Protocol, for general use on the Internet.
Location Based Services The delivery of information, mapping and locally available business and public data over the wireless network dependent upon the ability to locate mobile devices by means of GPS or A-GPS.
Push-to-talk over Cellular A means of instantaneous communication that uses a button to switch a device from voice transmission mode to voice reception mode employed in a wireless network.
RF Radio Frequency A technology used for wireless broadcasting and or communications.
Routing The process of determining the path packets take when moving through a network.
Security Testing Testing the security of communications networks, equipment and applications.
SmartSight Central software Proprietary software that acts as the operating system, test engine, graphical user interface, automation and expert analysis engine for the test and diagnostic triple play and Ethernet solution.
Switching The process of forwarding data packets on within a network.
TDM Time Division Multiplexing A digital transmission method that combines signals from multiple sources on a common path increasing capacity.
Triple play Voice, video and data transmitted over a single transport medium.
VoIP voice over IP The technology that makes it possible to have a telephone conversation where the signal is carried over the Internet or a dedicated network in Internet Protocol IP packets, instead of over dedicated voice transmission lines.
WCDMA Wideband CDMA A global standard for mobile 3G.
Web Applications Applications accessed or delivered over a network.
WiMax Worldwide Interoperability A wireless transmission technology.
for Microwave Access 124 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007
