Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Notes on the Financial Statements 55 for the year ended 31 March 2007 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on page 101.
The Groups principal activities are set out in the Directors Report at page 36.
A review of the Groups operations is set out in the Chief Executives Statement at pages 10 to 35.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
BASIS OF PREPARATION Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 30 May 2007.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: certain derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as available for sale.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The Groups critical accounting estimates are summarised at page 61.
As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
The following published standards and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: k IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures k IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment k IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives k IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment not yet endorsed k IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury share transactions not yet endorsed k IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements not yet endorsed Restated amounts Certain balance sheet items have been reclassified as current and non-current assets or liabilities to enhance understanding of the prior year results and to aid comparability with the current year presentation.
No revision on valuations has been made.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Pre-acquisition dividends are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, namely where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, as permitted by IAS 31: Interests in Joint Ventures.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
