Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Notice of Meeting 101 Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of 50p NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the varied or revoked by the company in general each in the capital of the company provided EIGHTEENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING meeting save that the company may before that: of Scottish and Southern Energy plc will be such expiry make an offer or agreement held at the Perth Concert Hall, Mill Street, which would or might require relevant i the maximum number of ordinary shares Perth, PH1 5HZ on Thursday, 26 July 2007 securities to be allotted after such expiry authorised to be purchased is 86,201,192 at 12 noon for the following purposes: and the Directors may allot relevant representing 10% of the companys securities in pursuance of such offer or issued ordinary share capital: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the agreement notwithstanding that the following resolutions, of which resolutions authority conferred hereby has expired.
ii the minimum price which may be paid 1 to 10 and 13-14 will be proposed as for such shares is 50p per share which ordinary resolutions, and resolutions 11 and Resolution 11 amount shall be exclusive of expenses: 12 will be proposed as special resolutions: that subject to the passing of resolution 10 above the Directors be and they are hereby iii the maximum price which may be paid Resolution 1 empowered pursuant to section 95 of the for an ordinary share shall not be more to receive the Financial Statements and the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot than 5% above the average of the middle Reports of the Directors and the auditors equity securities as defined in section 94 market quotations for an ordinary share for the financial year ended 31 March 2007. of the Act wholly for cash pursuant to the as derived from the London Stock authority conferred by resolution 10 above Exchange Daily Official List for the five Resolution 2 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to business days immediately preceding to approve the Remuneration Report any such allotment, provided that this power the date on which the ordinary share is of the Board for the financial year ended shall be limited to the allotment of equity purchased: 31 March 2007. securities: iv unless previously renewed, varied or Resolution 3 a in connection with an offer of such revoked, the authority hereby conferred to declare a final dividend for the year securities by way of rights to holders of shall expire on the conclusion of the ended 31 March 2007 of 39.9 pence per ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective companys next Annual General Meeting ordinary share.
holdings of such shares, but subject to or 15 months from the date of passing such exclusions or other arrangements of this resolution, if earlier: and Resolution 4 as the Directors may deem necessary to elect Nick Baldwin as a Director of the or expedient in relation to fractional v the company may make a contract or company.
entitlements or any legal or practical contracts to purchase ordinary shares problems under the laws of any territory, under the authority hereby conferred Resolution 5 or the requirements of any regulatory prior to the expiry of such authority to elect Richard Gillingwater as a Director body or stock exchange: and which will or may be executed wholly of the company.
or partly after the expiry of such b otherwise than pursuant to subauthority and may make a purchase Resolution 6 paragraph a above up to an aggregate of ordinary shares in pursuance of to re-elect Alistair Phillips-Davies as a nominal amount of 21,550,298: any such contract or contracts.
and shall expire on the conclusion of the Resolution 13 Resolution 7 next Annual General Meeting of the company that the company may send or supply to re-elect Sir Kevin Smith as a Director after the passing of this resolution save that documents or information to members of the company.
the company may before such expiry make by making them available on a website.
an offer or agreement which would or might Resolution 8 require equity securities to be allotted after Resolution 14 that KPMG Audit Plc be appointed auditor such expiry and the Directors may allot that the limit on the maximum potential of the company to hold office from the equity securities in pursuance of any such value of awards which may be granted in conclusion of this meeting until the offer or agreement notwithstanding that any financial year to an executive under rule conclusion of the next general meeting the power conferred hereby has expired.
3.5 of the Scottish and Southern Energy plc at which Financial Statements are laid Performance Share Plan be increased from before the company.
This power applies in relation to a sale 100% of base salary to 150% of base salary.
of shares which is an allotment of equity Resolution 9 securities by virtue of section 94 3A of By order of the Board that the Directors be authorised to the Act as if in the first paragraph of this determine the auditors remuneration.
resolution the words subject to the passing Vincent Donnelly of resolution 10 above and pursuant to the Company Secretary Resolution 10 authority conferred by resolution 10 above 30 May 2007 that the Directors be and they are hereby were omitted.
generally and unconditionally authorised for Registered Office: the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Resolution 12 Inveralmond House Act 1985 to exercise the powers of the that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of 200 Dunkeld Road company to allot relevant securities Association, the company be and is generally Perth as defined within that section up to an and unconditionally authorised for the PH1 3AQ aggregate nominal amount of 143,668,653 purposes of section 166 of the Companies provided that this authority shall expire on Act 1985 the Act to make one or more the conclusion of the next Annual General market purchases within the meaning of Meeting of the company after the passing section 163 3 of the Act on the London of this resolution unless previously renewed, Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Notice of Meeting continued 102 Notes and Information on Resolutions 3.
Information on resolutions 1 to 9 is 5.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights detailed below.
Only holders of ordinary shares on the register at 11.00pm on 24 July 2007 may Resolution 1 Resolution 11 proposes as a special attend and vote in respect of the number The Audited Accounts are set out on pages resolution to renew the Directors of shares registered in their name at that 51 to 99. authority, under section 89 of the time.
A shareholder of the company is Companies Act 1985, to allot shares for entitled to appoint one or more proxies Resolution 2 cash in certain circumstances otherwise to attend and, on a poll, vote instead The Remuneration Report is set out on than pro rata to all the shareholders.
A proxy need not be a pages 44 to 49.
This authority, which was last renewed shareholder.
A Proxy Form is enclosed at the Annual General Meeting in 2006, with this Notice.
The Proxy Form, duly Resolution 3 gives the company greater flexibility in completed and signed, together with any Details of the total dividend for the year are its financing arrangements.
power of attorney or other authority set out in the Directors Report on pages 36 under which it is signed or a notarially and 37.
This resolution deals with the allotment certified copy thereof, must reach the of shares for cash under a rights issue, registrar of the company, Computershare Resolutions 4, 5, 6 and 7 power to make adjustments to deal Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Directors biographical details are set out on with overseas shareholders, fractions Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB, pages 42 and 43: information on the Directors of shares and other such matters.
not later than 12 noon on 24 July 2007. seeking re-election is set out on page 36.
It also permits the Directors to make additional issues of shares for cash up Alternatively, you can submit your proxy Resolution 8 to 21,550,298 nominal share capital, vote electronically.
Further information Details of the audit and non-audit fees representing five per cent of the issued can be found in the Guidance Notes on charged by KPMG Audit Plc are set out share capital.
This limit is in line with the reverse of the Proxy Form.
in note 3 to the Audited Accounts.
There is no present intention 2.
The following documents will be Resolution 9 of exercising this authority.
available for inspection at the registered The resolution seeks authority for the office of the company during normal Directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
For the purposes of this resolution, business hours on any weekday public allotment of shares includes the sale holidays excepted from the date of this 4.
Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 10. of treasury shares see the note to Notice until the date of the Meeting and resolution 12 for further details.
thereafter at the place of the Meeting This resolution renews the Directors from 11.45am until the conclusion of the authority, under section 80 of the 6.
Purchase of Own Shares and Treasury Meeting: Companies Act 1985, to allot shares.
The authority to allot is limited to shares i the register of Directors share interests with a nominal value of 143,668,653 In certain circumstances it may be kept pursuant to section 325 of the representing one-third of the issued advantageous for the company to Companies Act 1985: share capital as at 30 May 2007, the purchase its own ordinary shares, and latest practicable date before the printing resolution 12 will, if approved, renew the ii copies of Directors service contracts and of the Notice of Meeting.
This authority companys authority from shareholders non-Executive Directors appointment was last renewed at the Annual General to make such purchases until the Annual letters: and Meeting in 2006.
The authority, if General Meeting in 2008 or 24 October renewed, will terminate at the conclusion 2008 whichever is the earlier.
Purchases iii The Performance Share Plan Rules of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
will only be made if the Directors believe The Directors have no present intention that to do so would result in an increase of issuing any shares other than pursuant in the Groups earnings per share and to existing rights under employee share would be in the best interests of schemes.
Any allotment of shares would shareholders generally.
be offered to existing shareholders first, subject to the limited pre-emption The resolution which will be proposed disapplication contained in resolution 11. as a special resolution specifies the The authority is in line with current maximum number of shares which institutional shareholder guidelines.
may be acquired 10% of the companys issued share capital and minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought.
There are options outstanding at the date of this report over 5.3 million ordinary shares, representing 0.61% of the issued share capital: if the authority given by resolution 12 were to be fully used, these options would represent 0.68% of the share capital in issue on that date.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 103 In connection with the amendment Any shares purchased in this way will the request.
Shareholders may revoke their described above, the Remuneration either be cancelled and the number of consent or deemed consent to website Committee considers it appropriate to: shares in issue reduced accordingly communication at any time.
Shares held in i reduce the threshold vesting level in treasury may subsequently be sold for In the event that Resolution 13 is passed respect of both the TSR for median cash within the limit of the shareholder and the company decides to progress performance and EPS for compound pre-emption disapplication contained in this initiative, shareholders will be annual growth in EPS equivalent to 3% resolution 11, cancelled, or used for the contacted in writing, and invited per annum above the UK retail price purposes of employee share schemes.
individually to agree to website index elements of awards under the Holding its own shares as treasury communication.
The invitation will set PSP from 30% to 25% of the shares shares would give the company the out the options for shareholders and the under each part of the award: and ability to re-issue them quickly and procedures involved.
Shareholders who cost effectively, and would provide the sign up for electronic communications ii amend the vesting schedule for the company with additional flexibility in can help the environment and will EPS element of awards under the PSP the management of its capital base.
in future be notified by email that a so that that element would only vest in The Directors believe that it is desirable document has been posted for viewing full if the companys compound annual for the company to have this flexibility.
Shareholders who do not provide an electronic address growth in EPS were equivalent to 9% per No dividends will be paid on shares whilst will need to be notified in paper form.
annum above the UK retail price index held in treasury and no voting rights will as opposed to 8%.
It is not considered be exercisable in respect of treasury The company intends to undertake a necessary to make any further shares.
Treasury shares transferred for full review of its Articles of Association amendments to the TSR element.
the purposes of the companys employee next year to take account of all new share schemes will count towards the changes under the 2006 Act.
However, These two changes do not require limits in those schemes on the number the passing of this resolution would shareholder approval.
of new shares which may be issued.
allow the company to take advantage of the significant early environmental During the year no ordinary shares were and administrative benefits that have purchased by the company.
The company so far been implemented by the 2006 does not currently hold any treasury Act provisions.
Proposed amendment to the Scottish 7.
Electronic Communications and Southern Energy plc Performance Resolution 13.
Resolution 13 will, if passed, give approval Following the introduction of the PSP for the company to communicate with last year, the Remuneration Committee shareholders via the companys website.
reviewed the scope and operation of the The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act plan.
The outcome of this review was contains new provisions facilitating that the performance based element communications between companies of senior managements remuneration and their shareholders in electronic form be increased, but only if more stringent and by means of a website.
To implement performance conditions are met.
Further the powers granted under the resolution, details of the background to this review the company must write to shareholders are set out in the Remuneration Report asking them individually if they would on page pages 45 to 46. prefer information in printed format or via the companys website.
If a The PSP, which was approved by shareholder fails to respond within shareholders at the AGM in 2006, 28 days, the company can assume provides for the grant of performance that the shareholder agrees to website related share awards to executive communications.
This default position directors and other senior executives.
goes beyond the previous legislation, The vesting of these awards is subject to under which a shareholder had to opt the companys performance over a three positively for communication in electronic year period, by reference to two separate form.
The introduction of the new performance measures.
The vesting of provisions has no effect on shareholders one half of the award is dependent on who have opted for electronic the companys relative total shareholder communication under the previous return TSR.
The vesting of the legislation.
Shareholders who have remaining half of the award is dependent agreed, or been deemed to have agreed, on the real compound growth of the to website communication will be notified companys earnings per share EPS.
by e-mail or hard copy that a document has been posted for viewing on the In light of further advice the companys website.
If a shareholder Remuneration Committee wishes to fails to respond, and is taken to agree increase the potential maximum value of to website communications, he or she share awards which may be made under can ask for a hard copy of any document the PSP in any financial year from 100% from the company at any time.
This amendment Company will then send the document requires shareholder approval.
free of charge within 21 days of receiving
