Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Shareholder Information 104 Website Electronic Communications with Benefits of eCommunication Shareholder Information Shareholders k You will receive email notification of the The companys website at www.
scottishIn early 2007 the first provisions of the availability of the interim results and southern.
co. uk has a dedicated Investor Companies Act 2006 were brought into have access to all annual reports and Centre section where shareholders can force.
The key change allows companies company announcements.
find more information about the services to use electronic communications with k You can lodge your proxy appointment available to them, download forms, view and its shareholders as a default position.
update their shareholding online, manage Shareholders that do not respond to a letter k You will save paper, help reforest areas their portfolio and view share price and from the company advising of the position of the UK and the tree planted may help dividend histories and trading graphs.
will going forward receive notification reduce global warming gases.
through the post of the availability of Voting Electronically the Annual Report and Accounts on the Keep us Informed The website and the Guidance Notes companys website.
Shareholders will at Where delivery of an email fails, the on the reverse of the Proxy Form contain any time be able to elect to recommence company is required to recommence sending information on how shareholders can receiving paper copies of the Annual Report you paper copies of documents.
You can help appoint their proxy electronically.
Your and Accounts to avoid this by: on-line proxy can be checked and updated k Keeping the company informed of up until 12 noon on 24 July 2007. eCommunications Programme changes to your email address by Millions of annual reports are posted to visiting scottish-southern.
co. uk Shareholder Enquiries shareholders each year, but now there is investor centre shareholder You can contact the registrar, another way to receive this information, services eCommunications Programme Computershare Investor Services PLC which is better for the environment.
and clicking on Click here following the Computershare, by phoning the dedicated k Elect to receive your AGM documentation instructions under How to register: and shareholder helpline on 0845 143 4005, via an email advising of its availability on k Regularly clearing out your in-box.
or writing to them at: The Pavilions, the companys website.
You will need an Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS13 8FB.
internet enabled computer with Internet Duplicate Share Accounts Explorer 5 or Netscape 4.
If you receive more than one annual report Computershare deal with the following: k In return, we will plant a tree in one mailing, this may be due to you having k Shareholding details of the Scottish and Southern Energy more than one share account due to minor k Transferring shares Woodlands.
differences in your name and address k Dividends details.
You can merge duplicate share k Death of a shareholder Registering for the Programme accounts by completing a Duplicate Share k Lost share certificates k Register your email address Account form.
For a form call 0845 143 4005. k Merging duplicate share accounts by visiting our website scottishk eCommunication southern.
co. uk investor If you choose to merge duplicate share centre shareholder services accounts, the company will plant a native Shareholder Services you will need your Shareholder species tree in one of the Scottish and Scottish and Southern Energy has a number Reference Number Southern Energy Woodlands.
of services including: k You will receive a confirmation k Elect for eCommunications and have email to which you must respond a tree planted to complete the process.
k Telephone and Internet share dealing services with ShareGift option k Merge duplicate share accounts and have a tree planted k Dividend reinvestment plan You can find further information on these services on the companys website at www.
co. uk investor centre shareholder services.
QXP 7 6 07 2:45 pm Page 4 Scottish and Southern Energy Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Annual Report 2007 Glossary of Terms Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP Share Price Information Copy Reports BETTA Distribution network Gas storage The DRP is a simple and cost effective way The share price of Scottish and Copies of the following documents can be The British Electricity Trading The network of high and low voltage SSEs gas storage facilities consist Our purpose is to provide people to build your shareholding in the company Southern Energy appears on www.
scottishobtained, free of charge, from the Company and Transmission Arrangements overhead lines and underground cables of underground caverns created by by using cash dividends to buy additional southern.
It also appears in the Secretary, Scottish and Southern Energy plc, arrangements relating to the trading distributing electricity to end users dissolving large subterranean salt shares.
To join the DRP either download a financial columns of the national press and Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, and transmission of electricity in customers, owned by the Distribution deposits.
Gas is pumped into the with the energy they need Dividend Reinvestment Plan Mandate form on various broadcast interactive services.
Perth PH1 3AQ or by accessing the Great Britain.
caverns under pressure and released and Terms and Conditions from scottishcompanys website at www.
scottishinto the gas network as required.
co. uk investor centre shareholder Financial Calendar southern.
co. uk: Biomass Distribution price controls in a reliable and sustainable way.
service reinvestment or, telephone the Annual General Meeting Biomass is anything derived from The regulatory mechanism set by Ofgem Gigawatt GW Shareholder Helpline on 0845 143 4005 to 26 July 2007 k Annual Report and Accounts 2007 plant or animal matter and includes which determines the level of capital 1,000 megawatts 1,000,000,000 watts.
k Annual Review 2007 agricultural and forestry wastes or expenditure the electricity and gas Ex dividend date k Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 residues and energy crops.
It can be distribution businesses are allowed Gigawatt hour GWh Investor Centre 22 August 2007 k Corporate Profile 2007 used for fuel directly by burning or to invest in their networks, and the 1,000 megawatt hours.
This Annual Report describes how The free online service, provided by the by extraction of combustible oils.
registrar, allows shareholders to manage Record date Integrated Pollution Control IPC and their share portfolios.
Shareholders can: 24 August 2007 BLX energywatch Integrated Pollution Prevention and weve worked to make energy better.
A strong high voltage overhead The independent gas and electricity Control IPPC k View, update and calculate the market Final dividend payable conductor system designed to withstand watchdog set up in November 2000 Systems to control pollution from value of their shareholdings: 21 September 2007 harsh weather conditions and improve through the Utility Act to protect and industry, enforced by the Environment k Change address details and dividend the reliability of electricity supply.
promote the interests of all gas and Agency and Scottish Environmental payment instructions online: and Interim announcement electricity consumers.
And were continuing to work k View share price histories and trading 14 November 2007 Careline graphs for listed companies.
A dedicated helpline staffed by advisers Energy Efficiency Commitment EEC Into Action Grant The Groups half-year results will be who give elderly customers, and those Domestic energy suppliers are given Employees can apply for fundraising to make it better still.
scottishpublished on the companys website with disabilities extra help with their energy saving targets related to the of up to 1,000 to match funds raised southern.
co. uk, click on Investor Centre at www.
co. uk on energy bills, advice on saving energy size of their customer base.
Energy or time spent volunteering for their in the left hand menu and follow the links 14 November 2007 and in the Independent and other matters to do with gas and Efficiency Commitment funding provides chosen charity.
newspaper on 15 November 2007, and will electricity, including security issues.
for energy efficiency improvements for detail ex dividend and record dates for the householders.
Half of all energy savings JD Power Share Dealing Service interim dividend payable in March 2008.
Carbon dioxide CO are to be achieved in properties occupied JD Power and Associates, a business 2 A Telephone Share Dealing service has been Paper copies of the half-year results are One of the so-called greenhouse by members of a priority group unit of McGraw-Hill, is a global arranged with Stocktrade which provides a not distributed to individual shareholders, gasses believed to contribute to households in receipt of means-tested marketing information firm that simple way of buying or selling Scottish and although shareholders who have elected global warming.
conducts independent surveys of Southern Energy plc Ordinary Shares.
Full for eCommunications do receive notification customer satisfaction, product quality details can be obtained by telephoning 0845 of the half-year results on the companys Charitable donations Energy Systems and buyer behaviour.
601 0995 and quoting reference Low Co 33. website.
Cash contributions made to UK-based The term used to cover the transmission charities and community organisations and distribution of electricity and gas.
Kilovolt kV Also, Computershare Investor Services PLC Provisional dates excluding gifts in kind and community 1,000 volts.
offer Telephone and Internet Share Dealing funds established for specific generation European Union Energy Trading Scheme services to buy or sell SSE plc Ordinary projects.
EU ETS Kilowatt kW Shares.
Further details can be obtained A mechanism whereby the amount 1,000 watts.
com dealing uk Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT of emissions from installations such or by telephoning 0870 703 0084.
The waste heat from a gas turbineas power stations are capped.
Savings Kilowatt hour kWh powered electricity generator is used on this cap can be sold, or excess One unit of electricity.
Please note that the value of shares can to make steam to generate additional emissions covered by purchasing surplus fall and you may get back less than you electricity via a steam turbine: this allowances from other installations.
Large Combustion Plant Directive invest.
If you are in any doubt about the last step enhances the efficiency of LCPD suitability of an investment, please consult electricity generation Ethernet The Large Combustion Plant Directive a professional adviser.
A frame-based technology for Local applies to combustion plants with a Combined Heat and Power CHP Area Letworks LANs and Wide Area thermal output of greater than 50 MW.
The heat created as a byproduct of Networks WANs connecting computer It aims to reduce acidification, ground electricity generation is captured and systems to form a network.
level ozone, and particles throughout distributed through pipe to provide Europe by controlling emissions of heating for industrial processes or sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and to heat houses.
Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD dust particulate matter from large In FGD processes, waste gases are combustion plants such as power Contracting treated with a chemical absorbent such stations, petroleum refineries, SSEs business that offers mechanical as limestone to remove sulphur dioxide.
steelworks, and other industrial and electrical engineering services.
The resulting slurry is then oxidised to processes running on solid, liquid, calcium sulphate gypsum which can or gaseous fuel.
Customer Minutes Lost CMLs then be used in the building trade.
A measurement of the reliability of the Megawatt MW electricity transmission and distribution 1,000 kilowatts, 1,000,000 watts.
networks calculated as the total of the number of minutes of each power Megawatt hour MWh interruption times the number of 1,000 units of electricity.
customers affected by each incident, divided by the total number of customers.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Corporate
