QXP 7 6 07 2:45 pm Page 4 Scottish and Southern Energy Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Annual Report 2007 Glossary of Terms Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRP Share Price Information Copy Reports BETTA Distribution network Gas storage The DRP is a simple and cost effective way The share price of Scottish and Copies of the following documents can be The British Electricity Trading The network of high and low voltage SSEs gas storage facilities consist Our purpose is to provide people to build your shareholding in the company Southern Energy appears on www.
scottishobtained, free of charge, from the Company and Transmission Arrangements overhead lines and underground cables of underground caverns created by by using cash dividends to buy additional southern.
It also appears in the Secretary, Scottish and Southern Energy plc, arrangements relating to the trading distributing electricity to end users dissolving large subterranean salt shares.
To join the DRP either download a financial columns of the national press and Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, and transmission of electricity in customers, owned by the Distribution deposits.
Gas is pumped into the with the energy they need Dividend Reinvestment Plan Mandate form on various broadcast interactive services.
Perth PH1 3AQ or by accessing the Great Britain.
caverns under pressure and released and Terms and Conditions from scottishcompanys website at www.
scottishinto the gas network as required.
co. uk investor centre shareholder Financial Calendar southern.
co. uk: Biomass Distribution price controls in a reliable and sustainable way.
service reinvestment or, telephone the Annual General Meeting Biomass is anything derived from The regulatory mechanism set by Ofgem Gigawatt GW Shareholder Helpline on 0845 143 4005 to 26 July 2007 k Annual Report and Accounts 2007 plant or animal matter and includes which determines the level of capital 1,000 megawatts 1,000,000,000 watts.
k Annual Review 2007 agricultural and forestry wastes or expenditure the electricity and gas Ex dividend date k Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 residues and energy crops.
It can be distribution businesses are allowed Gigawatt hour GWh Investor Centre 22 August 2007 k Corporate Profile 2007 used for fuel directly by burning or to invest in their networks, and the 1,000 megawatt hours.
This Annual Report describes how The free online service, provided by the by extraction of combustible oils.
registrar, allows shareholders to manage Record date Integrated Pollution Control IPC and their share portfolios.
Shareholders can: 24 August 2007 BLX energywatch Integrated Pollution Prevention and weve worked to make energy better.
A strong high voltage overhead The independent gas and electricity Control IPPC k View, update and calculate the market Final dividend payable conductor system designed to withstand watchdog set up in November 2000 Systems to control pollution from value of their shareholdings: 21 September 2007 harsh weather conditions and improve through the Utility Act to protect and industry, enforced by the Environment k Change address details and dividend the reliability of electricity supply.
promote the interests of all gas and Agency and Scottish Environmental payment instructions online: and Interim announcement electricity consumers.
And were continuing to work k View share price histories and trading 14 November 2007 Careline graphs for listed companies.
A dedicated helpline staffed by advisers Energy Efficiency Commitment EEC Into Action Grant The Groups half-year results will be who give elderly customers, and those Domestic energy suppliers are given Employees can apply for fundraising to make it better still.
scottishpublished on the companys website with disabilities extra help with their energy saving targets related to the of up to 1,000 to match funds raised southern.
co. uk, click on Investor Centre at www.
co. uk on energy bills, advice on saving energy size of their customer base.
Energy or time spent volunteering for their in the left hand menu and follow the links 14 November 2007 and in the Independent and other matters to do with gas and Efficiency Commitment funding provides chosen charity.
newspaper on 15 November 2007, and will electricity, including security issues.
for energy efficiency improvements for detail ex dividend and record dates for the householders.
Half of all energy savings JD Power Share Dealing Service interim dividend payable in March 2008.
Carbon dioxide CO are to be achieved in properties occupied JD Power and Associates, a business 2 A Telephone Share Dealing service has been Paper copies of the half-year results are One of the so-called greenhouse by members of a priority group unit of McGraw-Hill, is a global arranged with Stocktrade which provides a not distributed to individual shareholders, gasses believed to contribute to households in receipt of means-tested marketing information firm that simple way of buying or selling Scottish and although shareholders who have elected global warming.
conducts independent surveys of Southern Energy plc Ordinary Shares.
Full for eCommunications do receive notification customer satisfaction, product quality details can be obtained by telephoning 0845 of the half-year results on the companys Charitable donations Energy Systems and buyer behaviour.
601 0995 and quoting reference Low Co 33. website.
Cash contributions made to UK-based The term used to cover the transmission charities and community organisations and distribution of electricity and gas.
Kilovolt kV Also, Computershare Investor Services PLC Provisional dates excluding gifts in kind and community 1,000 volts.
offer Telephone and Internet Share Dealing funds established for specific generation European Union Energy Trading Scheme services to buy or sell SSE plc Ordinary projects.
EU ETS Kilowatt kW Shares.
Further details can be obtained A mechanism whereby the amount 1,000 watts.
com dealing uk Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT of emissions from installations such or by telephoning 0870 703 0084.
The waste heat from a gas turbineas power stations are capped.
Savings Kilowatt hour kWh powered electricity generator is used on this cap can be sold, or excess One unit of electricity.
Please note that the value of shares can to make steam to generate additional emissions covered by purchasing surplus fall and you may get back less than you electricity via a steam turbine: this allowances from other installations.
Large Combustion Plant Directive invest.
If you are in any doubt about the last step enhances the efficiency of LCPD suitability of an investment, please consult electricity generation Ethernet The Large Combustion Plant Directive a professional adviser.
A frame-based technology for Local applies to combustion plants with a Combined Heat and Power CHP Area Letworks LANs and Wide Area thermal output of greater than 50 MW.
The heat created as a byproduct of Networks WANs connecting computer It aims to reduce acidification, ground electricity generation is captured and systems to form a network.
level ozone, and particles throughout distributed through pipe to provide Europe by controlling emissions of heating for industrial processes or sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and to heat houses.
Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD dust particulate matter from large In FGD processes, waste gases are combustion plants such as power Contracting treated with a chemical absorbent such stations, petroleum refineries, SSEs business that offers mechanical as limestone to remove sulphur dioxide.
steelworks, and other industrial and electrical engineering services.
The resulting slurry is then oxidised to processes running on solid, liquid, calcium sulphate gypsum which can or gaseous fuel.
Customer Minutes Lost CMLs then be used in the building trade.
A measurement of the reliability of the Megawatt MW electricity transmission and distribution 1,000 kilowatts, 1,000,000 watts.
networks calculated as the total of the number of minutes of each power Megawatt hour MWh interruption times the number of 1,000 units of electricity.
customers affected by each incident, divided by the total number of customers.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Corporate Scottish and Southern Energy plc Annual Report 2007 energy made better A36346-SSE Report cover.
QXP 7 6 07 2:45 pm Page 2 Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Glossary of Terms Micro generation Renewables Obligation Certificates Terawatt hour TWh Small-scale generation supplying ROCs 1,000 gigawatt hours.
energy to a few or single premises, A system which encourages the usually with the capability to export development of renewable energy Thermal efficiency to the Grid surplus generation.
An obligation is placed on A measurement of the effectiveness of Technologies include roof-top wind suppliers to buy an increasing proportion converting primary fuels to electrical turbines and photovoltaic cells.
of energy from renewable sources.
If the suppliers do not meet this Nitrogen oxides NOx obligation, they are fined and the Transmission price controls Toxic gasses produced by the proceeds distributed to the operators The regulatory mechanism set by Ofgem combustion of carbon-based of renewable generation.
which determines the level of capital primary fuels by transport and expenditure the electricity transmission in power stations see also SO.
Run of river business is allowed to invest in its 2 A type of hydro electric generation network, and the revenue recoverable Office of Gas and Electricity Markets whereby the natural flow of water from customers.
Ofgem is used to generate electricity.
Ofgem is the regulator for Britains Transmission network Annual Report 2007 Annual Review 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 Corporate Profile gas and electricity industries.
Its role Run off The system on which electricity is The management of SSE is governed Through its Southern Electric, Business in the Communitys SSE is one of the largest energy by six key financial principles: Scottish Hydro Electric, SWALEC and Corporate Responsibility Index companies in the UK.
It is involved is to promote choice and value for Water draining from hills within transmitted at voltages of 132,000 volts delivery of sustained real dividend Atlantic brands, SSE now supplies provides an authoritative benchmark in the generation, transmission, all customers.
catchment areas into reservoirs and above in Scotland and 275,000 volts growth: effective management of over 7.75 million electricity and for companies to evaluate their distribution and supply of electricity: supplying hydro electric schemes.
and above in England and Wales.
core businesses: rigorous analysis to gas customers, a net gain of over management practice in four key the storage, distribution and supply PRiDE ensure investments are well-founded one million in 2006 07.
It has over areas of corporate responsibility of gas: electrical and utility and, where appropriate, innovative: 10,000MW of generation capacity community, environment, contracting: energy services: and A joint venture between Interserve Scotia Gas Networks plc Unit of electricity maintenance of a strong balance including almost 4,400MW of gasmarketplace and workplace.
In 2006 07 SSE reported Defence Limited IDL and Southern The holding company, in which SSE One unit of electricity equals one sheet: deployment of a selective and fired capacity, 4,000MW of coal-fired results of the Index for 2006 were adjusted profit before tax in excess Electric Contracting SEC, responsible, has a 50% equity stake, for the two kilowatt hour kWh i. e. 1,000 watts disciplined approach to acquisitions: capacity with biomass co-firing published in May 2007.
SSEs score of 1 billion for the first time.
as the Prime Contractor, for the gas distribution networks acquired of electricity used continuously for and use of purchase in the market capability and over 1,500MW of was 98.5%, compared with 97.5% of the companys own shares as the hydro and wind capacity.
It manages in the previous year, putting the provision of estate management and from National Grid Transco in 2005, one hour.
benchmark against which financial one electricity transmission, two company in the highest possible construction services at over 100 MOD Southern Gas Networks and Scotland decisions are taken.
electricity distribution networks and performance band of Platinum.
sites throughout the south east England.
com two gas distribution networks, in all A free, impartial online and phone-based totalling over 200,000 kilometres.
Private Finance Initiative PFI Solar photovoltaic cell comparison and switching service that A system for providing capital assets for A device that converts light into helps customers compare prices on the provision of public services.
a range of services including gas and the private sector designs, builds and electricity providers.
Its aim is to help maintains infrastructure and other Standard Bundled Units SBU customers take advantage of the best capital assets and then operates those Gas storage capacity at Hornsea is prices and services on offer from assets and contracts for a fee to the offered in Standard Bundled Units suppliers.
Each SBU provides the capability to inject gas into store, Quality of Service Incentive Scheme store gas and then withdraw it from QSIS store when required.
The total number of Schemes introduced by Ofgem SBU available at Hornsea is 195 million.
to encourage electricity distribution businesses to deliver benefits to Sulphur dioxide SO 2 customers by identifying innovative Toxic gasses produced by the combustion ideas to improve efficiency and of carbon-based primary fuels by customer service.
transport and in power stations see also NOx.
Quids In Employee payroll giving scheme with Substation funds raised for charity matched by SSE.
Part of an electricity distribution or transmission system, where electricity Regulated Asset Value RAV is redirected and transformed from one The value placed by Ofgem on the voltage to another.
businesses transmission, distribution and metering For further information about This report was printed on Revive 50:50 Silk which which is used as the basis for calculating Scottish and Southern Energy please contact: contains 50% recovered waste and conforms to government energy made better the income that is recoverable from requirements for recycled paper.
It is also certified as an Scottish and Southern Energy plc FSC mixed sources grade.
Both the paper mill and printing customers.
Corporate Communications involved in this production are environmentally accredited Inveralmond House with ISO 14001.
The printer is also registered as a Carbon 200 Dunkeld Road Neutral company.
co. uk Registered in Scotland No.
117119 Scottish and Southern Energy plc Annual Report 2007 Scottish and Southern Energy plc Annual Report 2007 energy made better A36346-SSE Report cover.
117119 Scottish and Southern Energy plc Annual Report 2007
