Company accounting policies As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term Company refers to SSL International plc.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985 and under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices.
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is presented on page 85.
Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
The accounting policies under UK GAAP are presented on pages 87 to 88.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of financial instruments as described below.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
In accordance with section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the parent company, SSL International plc, is disclosed in note x.
The Company has taken the exemption to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash flow statements.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
a Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided to write tangible fixed assets down to a residual value over their estimated useful economic lives at the following annual rates: Plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over a period of between 4-15 years.
b Intangible assets Software developments and licences capitalised are amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of between 5-10 years.
c Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment in value.
The Company has an investment in own shares which represent shares acquired by the Seton Healthcare Group Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and Seton Healthcare Group Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
The shares are purchased on the open market and are held for employees participating in various share schemes.
In accordance with UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts the investment in these shares is shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
d Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the loss profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Credit is taken for advance corporation tax written off in previous years when it is recovered against corporation tax liabilities.
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided where a taxation liability will arise as a result of transactions or events which have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded that they will be recovered.
Provision is made at rates expected to be applicable when the liabilities or assets are likely to crystallise.
e Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
f Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, and those hedged items forming part of a fair value hedge, financial instruments are held at amortised cost.
88 89 Company accounting policies Notes relating to the Company accounts Company accounting policies continued Hedge accounting The accounting for the Companys various hedging activities is detailed below: i Transaction exposure hedging Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair valued through the income statement.
ii Fair value hedges Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any change in the fair value of the hedged item, attributable to the hedged risk, is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged item and recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge accounting are principally foreign currency and interest rate swaps.
Discontinuance of hedge accounting Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
g Share-based payments The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
The cost to the Company of making awards in the form of shares or rights to shares under these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the employees performance relates.
No charge is taken to the profit and loss account in respect of awards made under SAYE schemes under the exemptions of UITF 17 Employee Share Schemes.
The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions precedent at the time of grant.
The impact of any non-market vesting conditions is excluded.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and the number of equity instruments which eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of instruments that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining period.
h Dividend income Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised within other income at the point the dividend has been declared.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date, are not recognised in the profit and loss account.
