59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 99 Five year financial summary consolidated IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m Results Revenue 1,504.6 1,343.9 1,420.5 1,792.3 2,076.6 Operating profit loss 180.9 112.5 132.9 129.7 466.2 Net finance income costs 0.7 15.9 21.9 27.3 33.5 Profit loss before taxation 184.1 91.5 104.9 95.8 500.2 Tax charge credit 43.6 20.3 25.3 8.8 25.0 Profit loss attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 277.3 115.4 86.9 104.6 525.2 Net assets Non-current assets 779.6 893.4 866.7 831.7 1,259.8 Current assets 669.1 395.3 321.7 717.1 455.0 Current liabilities excluding provisions 447.0 438.2 517.4 674.6 504.2 Non-current liabilities excluding provisions 381.0 529.0 462.6 292.2 640.7 Provisions 108.4 109.9 93.0 192.0 252.8 Total equity 512.3 211.6 115.4 390.0 317.1 Cash and debt Cash at bank and in hand 513.3 198.5 140.0 476.5 164.7 Gross debt UK GAAP 326.9 334.4 354.6 544.1 724.7 Net funds debt UK GAAP 186.4 135.9 214.6 67.6 560.0 Cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities after tax 162.3 175.5 173.6 209.5 217.8 Ratios Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 11.7p 10.6p 9.5p 6.7p 6.4p Dividends per ordinary share 4.1p 3.7p 3.3p 2.9p 2.6p Net cash from operating activities after tax per ordinary share 14.9p 16.3p 15.0p 15.9p 16.6p Ordinary shares in issue at year end 1,101.0m 1,093.6m 1,069.5m 1,335.4m 1,320.9m before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items discontinued operations as defined under IFRS accounting are excluded from operating profit for 2007 London bus and New Zealand businesses 2006 London bus and New Zealand businesses and 2005 New Zealand.
The numbers for 2004 and 2003 are as reported under UK GAAP.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 99 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 100 Registered office, advisers and financial calendar Company Secretary Principal Bankers Ross Paterson Bank of Scotland New Uberior House Registered Office 11 Earl Grey Street 10 Dunkeld Road Edinburgh EH3 9BN Perth PH1 5TW Telephone 44 0 1738 442 111 Solicitors Facsimile 44 0 1738 643 648 Shepherd & Wedderburn LLP Email info@stagecoachgroup.
com Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Company Number Edinburgh EH1 2ET SC 100764 Herbert Smith Registrars Exchange House Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Primrose Street PO Box 28448 London EC2A 2HS Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 Merchant Bankers Financial Calendar Noble Grossart Limited 48 Queen Street Annual General Meeting Edinburgh EH2 3NH 24 August 2007 Independent Auditors Payment Date Ordinary Shares  LLP Final Dividend Kintyre House 3 October 2007 209 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LW Interim Report December 2007 Stockbrokers Credit Suisse Interim Dividend 1 Cabot Square March 2008 London E14 4QJ page 100 | Stagecoach Group plc Summary Annual Report 2007 partnership innovation growth 61109 StChSummCov.
SC100764 YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2007 Business highlights Financial highlights Delivering excellent performance and value to shareholders Revenue from continuing businesses up 8.9% Continued growth in earnings per share up 10.4% 10.4% increase in earnings per share Underlying revenue growth in all core divisions Full year dividend up 10.8% at 4.1 pence Around 700m in value returned to shareholders in May June 2007 Dividend increased by 10.8% As reported Excluding intangible asset Partnerships and innovation driving growth at UK Bus expenses and Continued organic passenger growth like-for-like volumes up 6.6% exceptional items 2007 2006 2007 2006 Strong revenue growth with like-for-like revenue up 10.3% Like-for-like operating profit up 26.9% Revenue from continuing operations m 1,504.6 1,343.9 1,504.6 1,343.9 Strong marketing, competitive fares strategy and concessionary travel Total operating profit m 180.9 112.5 161.3 133.0 schemes underpin growth Profit before taxation m 184.1 91.5 162.0 117.1 Named UK Bus Operator of the Year Earnings per share pence 25.4p 10.7p 11.7p 10.6p Excellent performance in UK Rail Proposed final dividend pence 2.9p 2.6p 2.9p 2.6p Strong start to new South Western rail franchise Full year dividend pence 4.1p 3.7p 4.1p 3.7p Revenue up 12.8% Contract wins: East Midlands: Manchester Metrolink Strong growth in North America excluding intangible asset expenses and exceptional items Operating margin growth from 7.1% to 7.9%, excluding megabus.
com excluding 2005 6 acquisition of Glenvale and Traction Continued strong revenue growth in both scheduled services and leisure markets constant currency like-for-like revenue up 9.1% Expansion of budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, in United States Growth at Virgin Rail Group Continued revenue growth on West Coast and CrossCountry franchises Winning market share from airlines Good prospects for re-negotiated West Coast franchise Stagecoach Group Board appointment Appointment of Garry Watts as non-executive director Adjusted earnings per share Dividend per ordinary share 11.7p 4.1p 10.6p 3.7p 3.3p 9.5p 2.9p 2.6p 6.7p 6.4p 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Year ended 30 April Year ended 30 April Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before intangible asset The Group seeks to grow the dividend per ordinary share as earnings expenses and exceptional items.
2003 and 2004 are UK GAAP figures and grow.
Contents 2 Chairmans statement 14 Summary Directors 19 Summary consolidated balance sheet remuneration report 3 Chief Executives review 19 Summary consolidated cash flow 4 Summary Operating and 17 Independent auditors statement statement Financial Review 17 Registered office and advisers 20 Notes to the Summary Annual Report 12 Directors biographies 18 Summary consolidated income statement IBC Shareholder information Stagecoach Group plc | page 1 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 2 Chairmans statement Stagecoach has delivered a year of strong growth in its bus and rail saddened at the incident, and our condolences go to the family of the operations in the UK and North America, providing further excellent returns passenger who lost her life and those who were injured.
The Rail Accident to our shareholders.
Investigation Board has identified the cause of the accident as a faulty set of points.
Responsibility for maintaining the points rests with Network Rail.
We continue to achieve impressive passenger growth by providing a high Virgin Rail Group has been working with Network Rail to ensure lessons are quality and green alternative to the car.
Across the business, we have learnt from this serious incident.
Network Rail responded quickly to the achieved strong like-for-like revenue growth and, while cost pressures incident and with a clear chain of command.
Precautionary checks on remain a challenge, we have been able to improve the operating profit similar sets of points suggested the fault at Lambrigg was an isolated one.
is clear that the quality of the train itself prevented further loss of life.
Capitalising on its industry leadership and entrepreneurial flair, the UK Bus Customers can remain assured that the safety and security of our passengers division is continuing to perform strongly.
The Groups North American and our people is paramount for the Group and all its businesses, and this is operations are benefiting from good revenue growth and a rigorous underpinned by a proactive safety culture.
In Rail, both South West Trains and the During the year, Russell Walls stepped down from the Board of Directors and Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group VRG, are experiencing strong Sir George Mathewson joined the Board as a non-executive director.
The passenger volume and revenue growth and we are excited by the prospects Group benefited significantly over six years from Russells skills and for the new East Midlands rail franchise that we will begin operating in experience and I thank him for his strong contribution.
In addition, I am November 2007. pleased that Garry Watts will join the Group as a non-executive director with Group revenue from continuing operations for the year ended 30 April 2007 effect from 1 July 2007.
Garry brings a wide range of experience and was up 12.0% at 1,504.6m 2006: 1,343.9m.
Operating profit from I am sure he will make a strong contribution to the Board.
continuing operations before intangible asset expenses and exceptional I would again like to thank our employees across our international items was 161.3m 2006: 133.0m.
Earnings per share before intangible operations who have ensured that our strategy has been delivered on the asset expenses and exceptional items were 11.7p 2006: 10.6p.
Putting passengers first is at the heart of what we do every day and there were net exceptional gains before tax of 169.6m, principally arising we can look forward with confidence to growing our public transport from the profit of 132.2m on the sale of the Groups London bus operations further in the year ahead.
operations, which was completed in August 2006.
We have made a strong start to the new financial year and current trading of We are proposing a final dividend of 2.9p per share 2006: 2.6p, giving a the Group remains in line with our expectations.
total dividend for the year of 4.1p 2006: 3.7p.
This is an increase of 10.8% and we will look to continue to grow the dividend progressively.
The proposed final dividend is payable to shareholders on the register at 31 August 2007 and will be paid on 3 October 2007.
In March 2007, the Board announced plans to return approximately 700m to shareholders in view of the proceeds from the sale of the New Zealand and London bus businesses and continuing strong cash generation across the Group.
The proposals, approved by shareholders on 27 April 2007, give the Group a more efficient capital structure.
The return of value, which Robert Speirs equated to 63.0p per ordinary share, was completed in June 2007.
Chairman In February 2007, a Virgin Rail Group Pendolino train travelling from London 27 June 2007 Euston to Glasgow was derailed near Lambrigg in Cumbria.
We were deeply There is no explicit definition of exceptional items in IFRS.
For this purpose exceptional items are items which individually, or if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed, by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to allow a proper understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
page 2 | Stagecoach Group plc 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 3 Chief Executives review We have achieved another strong set of results across the Group, driving The two Virgin Rail Group VRG franchises, West Coast and CrossCountry, growth in our businesses through innovation, partnership and service.
Our have delivered improved punctuality over the last year.
A record 23 million investment in our operations is attracting increasing numbers of passengers passenger journeys were made on Virgin CrossCountry during the year, to public transport.
following the replacement of the entire train fleet and improved services and connections.
On West Coast, passenger volumes have increased by 45% in I am delighted that for the second year in a row, we have been the last nine years, with the improved service offering resulting in rail independently recognised as running Britains best bus operator and we are services winning market share from airlines, and encouraging travellers to continuing to lead the way in developing new products and new ideas.
Our switch from travelling by car to travelling by rail.
com, for example, are making access to low-cost bus and rail travel even easier for customers.
The agreement, in December 2006, of new terms for West Coast has put the franchise on a firm commercial footing through to 2012, allowing VRG to During the year, we made a number of small bolt-on asset purchases in our focus on growing the railway on a sustainable basis in the long-term UK Bus business, which have strengthened our existing operations and interests of passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
Virgin CrossCountry allowed us to grow the market for bus travel.
We have also progressed the continues to operate on the basis of annual budgets set by the DfT, while we integration of our acquired operations in Merseyside, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire await the outcome of the competition for the New Cross Country franchise.
and Tayside, which are now making a positive financial contribution to the Group.
We are delighted to have been awarded the new East Midlands rail franchise, which is planned to run from November 2007 to March 2015.
We are The UK Bus division has achieved its fifth successive year of like-for-like excited by the opportunities to grow our rail portfolio, along with our passenger volume growth with our continued investment in new, accessible partners, Virgin.
We have submitted joint bids for the New Cross Country vehicles and industry-leading marketing campaigns.
There has also been and InterCity East Coast rail franchises and we look forward to the significant additional travel under the Governments concessionary fares Governments announcement of the successful bidders in due course.
schemes in Scotland, England and Wales.
In North America, we have achieved further like-for-like revenue growth in Our market-leading budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, has our operations in the United States and Canada.
We have focused closely on achieved further revenue growth this year, while our joint venture with strong operational delivery, particularly in delivering a high quality and safe ComfortDelGro to provide inter-city coach services in Scotland has attracted service, marketing of our core scheduled and leisure services, and winning significant numbers of new passengers following the introduction of an and retaining contract business.
We have been able to grow our successful improved network of services.
sightseeing operations by the addition of new products and services, and by Stagecoach continues to develop productive partnerships with local offering improved online sales initiatives.
authorities and this approach has produced good passenger volume growth I believe we can look forward to the year ahead with confidence.
Future at our regional bus companies in the UK.
We welcome the UK Governments developments in road-pricing and congestion charging, as well as the review of bus services and have been working closely with the Department growing awareness of the environmental impact of car and airline travel, will for Transport DfT and other stakeholders to ensure partnerships between be positive drivers for the development of our bus, coach and rail businesses.
bus operators and local authorities are strengthened as a result of the Draft Local Transport Bill.
Buses can play a key role in tackling the twin challenges We have a first-class team of employees and managers who have been of congestion and climate change.
If the legislation is right, we believe we central to our success in the past year and we remain committed to can build on the growth in bus use we have seen in many towns and cities delivering for our customers and our shareholders.
across the UK and deliver a further step-change in services.
The completion of the sale of our London bus business has allowed our UK Bus division to focus on our strong regional bus operations where we can drive growth through innovation, investment and strong marketing.
Our UK Rail division continues to perform very strongly, combining further profitability with good operational performance.
We are working closely with Network Rail to ensure these improvements are supported by a better and more consistent level of infrastructure performance.
Brian Souter We were delighted to win the new South Western rail franchise, which Chief Executive started in February 2007, combining the operations of South West Trains 27 June 2007 and Island Line.
We have transformed services to passengers over the past 10 years by investing in new trains, driving up punctuality and improving customer satisfaction.
The new 10-year franchise has started well and we look forward to building on our achievements.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 3 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 4 Summary Operating and Financial Review The division will also commence operations of the new East Midlands Important note franchise in November 2007, which combines mainline services from London This Summary Annual Report, including the summary financial statements, is St. Pancras railway station with regional services in the East Midlands region.
a summary of the information contained in the 2007 Annual Report and The new franchise will run until 1 April 2015 assuming the Group meets financial statements.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow a full agreed performance targets.
understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or the Group.
For further information, the full annual financial statements, Joint Ventures the auditors report on those financial statements and the Directors report Virgin Rail Group should be consulted.
All shareholders receive either the Summary Annual Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in Virgin Rail Group VRG, Report or the full Annual Report.
A copy of the full 2007 Annual Report and which operates the West Coast and CrossCountry rail franchises.
The other financial statements may be obtained, free of charge from the Companys shareholder in VRG is the Virgin Group of Companies.
The Chief Executive of registrar at the address and telephone number shown on page 17.
If you wish Stagecoach Groups rail division is Joint Chairman of VRG.
The joint venture to receive the full Annual Report for all future financial years you should has submitted a bid for a new expanded Cross Country franchise, which is inform Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing, at the same address.
being tendered by the Government and will run from November 2007.
New commercial terms for the West Coast franchise were agreed in December Cautionary statement 2006 and the renegotiated franchise runs through until 2012.
VRG has a The Summary Operating and Financial Review is a summary of the full Chief Executive, who reports to the VRG board, which includes Stagecoach Operating and Financial Review contained within the 2007 Annual Report Group representatives.
The Operating and Financial Review has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited persons.
Its purpose is to assist shareholders of the Company to assess the In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro, to operate succeed and for no other purpose.
This Summary Operating and Financial megabus.
com and Scottish Citylink coach services.
Stagecoach owns 35% of Review contains forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading provider of express circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially New York Splash Tours from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward In North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, New York Splash Tours LLC, looking statements in this Summary Operating and Financial Review will be with Port Imperial Duck Charters, LLC.
Splash Tours began operating realised.
The forward looking statements reflect the knowledge and sightseeing tours in May 2007 using amphibious vehicles.
The vehicles information available at the date of preparation.
operate in the Hudson River and on land in the city of New York.
Splash Tours complements the Groups wholly owned New York sightseeing tours business, Description of the business Grayline New York.
Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, United States and Canada.
The Group employs Group business objectives and long-term around 27,000 people, and operates bus, coach, rail and tram services.
The strategy Group has three main divisions UK Bus, UK Rail and North America.
Business objectives and long-term strategy Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are long-term shareholder value are: publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations: Throughout this Summary Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing Stagecoach or the Group.
operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups UK Bus weighted average cost of capital: Our UK Bus division connects communities in more than 100 towns and In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the cities across the UK on networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to Groups Rail business by bidding for selected rail franchises and to seek to south-west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, secure new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield and Cambridge.
A fundamental objective underlying this strategy is the continued provision North America of safe and reliable services to passengers.
Stagecoach, principally through its Coach USA and Coach Canada brands, is a Stagecoach Group has demonstrated particular strength in managing bus major provider of transport services in North America.
Our businesses and coach businesses that operate scheduled services in a relatively include commuter services, tour and charter, sightseeing and school bus deregulated environment.
The Groups focus is on operations with critical operations.
mass in their own local markets.
In rail, Stagecoachs skill centres on organic revenue and passenger volume growth, the management of significant UK Rail change projects, the delivery of improved operational performance, and driving up customer satisfaction.
Our principal wholly-owned rail business is South Western, which incorporates the South West Trains and Island Line networks.
South West Our overall business strategy is supported by a financial strategy whereby we Trains runs around 1,600 train services a day in south-west England out of seek to maintain a long-term efficient capital structure.
London Waterloo railway station, while Island Line operates on the Isle of Wight.
The South Western franchise is expected to run until February 2017.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
In May 2007, we signed a contract with Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive GMPTE to operate and maintain the Manchester Metrolink tram network and expect to commence operations under the 10-year contract in July 2007. page 4 | Stagecoach Group plc R f t th ti fit l ti i f ti l b i th h t th S O ti d Fi i l R i 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 5 comprehensive package of press, billboard, radio and web-based marketing UK Bus emphasising the environmental benefits of coach travel have helped drive Revenue in our UK Bus division, excluding acquisitions during 2005 6 and further passenger growth during the year.
discontinued operations, increased by 10.3% to 608.0m 2006: 551.1m and equivalent operating profit was 82.5m, compared to 65.0m in the Provincial and city networks previous year.
Operating margin was 13.6% compared to 11.8% in 2006.
The Growth in our provincial and city networks has been supported by our focus increased profit and margin reflects the benefits of continued strong revenue on customer profiling research and targeted marketing.
Our expanded growth, stable insurance and claims costs, returns on additional pension telemarketing unit at our headquarters in Perth has encouraged non-users, contributions and close control of costs generally.
including motorists, to switch to bus travel through a package including the The integration of Glenvale Transport Limited and Traction Group Limited, the offer of a weeks free travel.
We have now completed more than 50 projects regional bus operations we acquired last year, is progressing well.
Revenue for in the UK, covering around 500,000 potential customers.
In addition, we are the year ended 30 April 2007 for these businesses was 82.4m 2006: now working with a number of local authorities, Passenger Transport 38.5m and the operating profit was 2.0m 2006: operating loss of 1.9m.
Executives and bus operator partners on similar telemarketing initiatives.
We are particularly pleased to have grown the total UK Bus operating profit in London a year where we also collected 267.8m in cash from the sale of our London In August 2006, Stagecoach completed the sale of its London bus operations bus operations.
This is illustrated below: to Macquarie Bank Limited for 267.8m in cash, resulting in a consolidated gain on disposal of 132.2m.
The cash proceeds and gain on disposal are 2007 2006 higher than reported in our results for the six months ended 31 October m m 2006 principally as a result of the impact of finalising and agreeing the disposal completion accounts in January 2007.
Stagecoach London provided Like-for-like UK Bus 82.5 65.0 bus services on routes within and from London, principally under contract 2005 06 UK Bus acquisitions 2.0 1.9 from Transport for London.
The London bus operations were a highly London Bus 5.2 23.6 successful part of Stagecoach's UK Bus division since 1994.
After assessing Macquarie's offer and the prospects for the London bus operations, the Board Total UK Bus 89.7 86.7 concluded that the disposal was in the best interests of shareholders.
The sale of the London bus business has allowed the UK Bus division to focus on its The division performed particularly well in the second half of the year to successful growth strategy outside London.
The Groups results for the 12 30 April 2007 reflecting continued strong revenue growth, management months ended 30 April 2007 include profit after tax before the exceptional action to mitigate increasing pension costs, more stable fuel costs and gain on disposal from the discontinued London bus operations of 4.0m improving profitability at businesses acquired in 2005 6.
2006: 17.4m for the period up until disposal.
Investment, innovation and growth Partnership Stagecoach was named Bus Operator of the Year for the second year running Stagecoach continues to work closely with a range of stakeholders at local at the 2006 UK Bus Awards for its West Scotland operations.
Our strong track and national level to increase the quality of bus provision for our customers.
record in operating high-quality bus and coach services has delivered a fifth We believe strong partnerships are the key to improving services for successive year of like-for-like passenger volume growth in our UK Bus passengers.
Buses have a crucial role to play in meeting the transport division.
New product development, investment and tailored marketing challenges facing our country and we have been engaging with the DfT and initiatives, combined with concessionary travel schemes in Scotland, England other stakeholders as part of the UK Governments current review of bus and Wales, has driven a 6.6% growth in like-for-like passenger volumes.
Stagecoach has consistently attracted more people on board its estimate that underlying full fare passenger volume growth was around 2.4% buses in both metropolitan areas and shire counties for the past five years.
It with the remaining growth coming from concessionary travel schemes.
is crucial that any new legislation recognises the strengths of the private sector in delivering and improving public transport, avoids unnecessary We have invested 58.5m in the year to 30 April 2007 in the continuing regulation and works in the best interests of passengers, taxpayers and the modernisation of our UK Bus fleet, delivering more low-floor accessible buses future of the bus industry.
and a more comfortable travelling environment for passengers.
Stagecoach has strong confidence in the potential for future organic growth and we have In Scotland and Wales, we continue to work with the devolved already committed to introduce a further 540 new vehicles in 2007 8 at a administrations to successfully deliver national concessionary fares schemes.
This investment and innovation has again grown Stagecoach is also working with local authorities in England to deliver the our customer base as we attract more people out of their cars and on to our Governments commitment to free local bus travel for senior citizens and public transport services.
We believe it is crucial that these schemes are fully funded and bus operators are properly reimbursed in line with the legislation.
We have also progressed the integration of the Glenvale and Traction Group operations into our UK Bus division.
Our significant investment in new Our bus companies have built close relationships with the National Transport vehicles and improved services in these businesses is stimulating passenger Agency for Scotland and Regional Transport Partnerships.
We are also helping growth.
The integrated bus and tram network in Sheffield is performing make travel easier for customers by partnership with local authorities on particularly strongly.
smartcard, multi-operator ticketing schemes and real time information.
Several of our companies also have close links with businesses and Our market-leading budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, has educational establishments to encourage travel by public transport and help achieved further revenue growth this year, while our joint venture with reduce congestion in our towns and cities.
In Cambridge, we are working with ComfortDelGro to provide inter-city coach services in Scotland has attracted the county council on timetables, ticketing and other operational issues significant numbers of new passengers following the introduction of an linked to the development of the worlds longest bus-only route, a 25km improved network of services.
guided busway between Cambridge and St Ives, due to open in 2009. megabus.
com, the UKs market-leading inter-city bus service, has generated increased revenue during the year and made an operating profit of 0.2m.
Park and ride We have a network of services covering around 40 locations in the UK.
We believe there is major opportunity to develop park and ride around the UK Around 2 million passenger journeys have been made on megabus.
com as a solution to the problem of increasing congestion in and around our main branded services during the year and we have improved both the average towns and cities.
Stagecoach is a partner with local authorities in a number of load factor and average fare.
More modern double-decker coaches and a high-quality park and ride sites where there has been significant growth.
We References to the operating margin, profit or loss of a particular business in the Summary Operating and Financial Review refer to margin, profit or loss before interest, taxation, restructuring costs, intangible asset expenses and exceptional items.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 6 Summary Operating and Financial Review believe there is also a significant untapped potential in metropolitan areas to we expected, the operating margin is less than that we earned under the use a network of bus-based park and ride sites to tackle urban traffic previous franchises.
Rail bid costs of 13.0m 2006: 11.7m were expensed during the year ended 30 April 2007 in arriving at the UK Rail operating profit of 58.8m Kickstart 2006: 58.9m.
Stagecoach is continuing to achieve excellent passenger growth from a series of Kickstart schemes around the country.
We are involved in a range of South West Trains successful projects using the pump-priming model in partnership with local Stagecoach Group began operating the new 10-year South Western franchise, authorities in Scotland, England and Wales.
These partnership projects have which is made up of the South West Trains and Island Line networks, in achieved particularly impressive growth in areas such as Ayrshire, Fife, NorthFebruary 2007.
Management is fully focused on delivery of our commitments east Scotland, Teeside, Tyne and Wear, Lancashire, Greater Manchester, to passengers, Government and our shareholders.
Lincolnshire, Oxfordshire, Gloucestershire, Hampshire, Kent, Surrey, Sussex, Devon and South Wales.
Passenger volumes at South West Trains are continuing to grow strongly and were up 8.9% in the year.
UK rail has continued to benefit from a strong North America economy, new housing developments, modal shift as passengers prefer the train to their cars and from the impact of inward migration to the UK.
North American trading continues to be encouraging and has benefited from good revenue growth.
While the insurance claims environment in the United We are continuing to deliver high operational performance across what is States remains challenging, we anticipate growth will continue in the year arguably the most complex rail network in the UK.
The delay minutes caused ahead.
by South West Trains are now less than half the level they were before the GNER train accident at Hatfield in 2000.
It is disappointing that delay minutes Revenue for the year was US$463.6m 2006: US$439.5m.
On a like for like caused by Network Rail to South West Trains services remain above the prebasis, excluding closed businesses, constant currency revenue was up by 9.1%.
In the year to 30 April 2007, while South West Trains delay Operating profit was US$34.6m 2006: US$30.0m, resulting in an operating minutes fell 16.3%, Network Rails increased 13.9%.
We will continue to work margin of 7.5%, compared to 6.8% the previous year.
Converted to sterling, closely with Network Rail to help deliver the improvements to infrastructure revenue for the year was 242.7m 2006: 247.6m.
Operating profit for the performance that allow our customers to experience the high level of service year was 18.1m 2006: 16.9m.
Excluding the early-stage North American they deserve.
com operations, which reported an operating loss of US$2.0m 2006: US$1.5m on revenue of US$4.7m 2006: US$Nil for the year, the Our fleet of state-of-the-art Desiro trains, which have delivered a step-change operating margin was up from 7.1% to 7.9%.
in passenger comfort, is running well.
Our focus on providing a safe and secure travelling environment has also resulted in significant cuts in crime on the Our highly successful sightseeing businesses in New York and Chicago network.
continue to experience strong revenue growth, up 12.7% on the prior year.
We have continued to invest in the quality of our fleet, strong marketing and South West Trains has already taken a number of initiatives to improve services the development of new and innovative tours.
Through our Splash Tours to passengers in line with its commitments under the new franchise.
The plans joint venture with Port Imperial Duck Charters, a new amphibious bus tour is include 20m of car parking improvements, refurbishment of 14 major being added to our product offering in New York for the current season.
stations, installation of ticket barriers at 13 more stations, and the introduction of Smartcard ticket technology, compatible with the Oyster system in the We have seen continued revenue and passenger growth in our express, London area.
We are also committed to providing 21% more mainline peak commuter and scheduled airport services.
Revenue growth has been seats and a 20% increase in peak suburban capacity.
particularly strong in our US scheduled service businesses, with a like-for-like increase of 9.8% over the prior year.
Charter revenue growth also continues megatrain.
com, the Groups innovative budget rail initiative, has now attracted to be encouraging.
Up to 1,000 customers a day are taking advantage of the bargain off-peak fares from 1 on offer on the South Our budget coach operation, megabus.
com, was launched in the United West Trains and Virgin CrossCountry rail franchises, covering around 20 States in spring 2006.
It has now carried around 400,000 passengers, destinations across the UK.
The website has also been integrated with attracted by fares as low as US$1, and has generated more than US$4.7m in megabus.
com to make access to low cost bus and rail travel even easier for revenue.
The success of our initial trial network between Chicago and eight customers.
We plan to extend megatrain.
com to the new East Midlands other Midwest cities resulted in the extension of the concept to an additional franchise, which we will begin operating in November 2007.
Making the best five cities in April 2007. megabus.
com, which is ahead of our original business use of capacity within existing infrastructure is a critical challenge and under plan, now covers the states of Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Missouri, the new franchise we are committed to providing 21% more mainline peak Ohio and Pennsylvania.
We have attracted significant numbers of passengers seats and a 20% increase in peak suburban capacity.
from the car, budget airlines, the train and competing coach operators and we believe there is significant potential to develop the brand.
As part of our Island Line development plans, we are looking at other areas of the US suited to the budget inter-city coach model, including states in the south west where we Island line, which is now part of the enlarged South Western franchise, can franchise the megabus.
We are also continuing to invest in became the first rail operation in the UK to be designated as a Community the quality of our megabus.
com fleet in the US and we expect to introduce Rail route by the DfT.
Designation changes the approach to running the line, new vehicles on the network later this year.
with greater emphasis on local management and meeting local needs.
In March 2007, Island Lines six two-car Class 483 electric trains were bought by Student transportation services in Wisconsin have continued to perform well Stagecoach for a nominal sum from HSBC Rail, which previously leased the and we have been awarded a number of district contract renewals for an trains to Island Line.
The trains, which provide 68 services a day between additional three years.
Ryde Pier and Shanklin, are now being repainted, along with some of the In Canada, Canadian dollar revenue has grown by 10.7% despite a very stations.
During the year, we secured a nine-year contract to provide employee transport at Trudeau International Airport in Montreal.
Supertram Charter and scheduled service revenues have seen satisfactory growth.
Passenger volumes at Sheffield Supertram continue to grow and the tram operation is now carrying a record 14 million people a year.
A major threeUK Rail year project is underway to refresh the livery and interiors of the 25-strong The Groups rail division has had another excellent year.
Revenue from our UK tram fleet and 10 improved vehicles have entered service.
The programme Rail subsidiaries for the year ended 30 April 2007 was up by 12.8% to is improving comfort and accessibility for passengers, as well as helping to 571.5m 2006: 506.7m, which includes some recovery from the impact of maintain the fleets high standard of reliability.
Stagecoachs integrated tram the terrorist bombings in London in July 2005.
Operating profit was 58.8m and bus network in Sheffield, which offers joint tram and bus ticketing, has 2006: 58.9m, giving an operating margin of 10.3% 2006: 11.6% - this succeeded in attracting more passengers to both modes of transport.
includes 12 weeks results from the new South Western franchise where, as page 6 | Stagecoach Group plc 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 7 Rail franchising opportunities Similarly, the Virgin CrossCountry franchise has grown passenger volumes by 11.0% over the past year and now handles in excess of 23 million passenger Stagecoach is continuing to target rail franchise opportunities where we journeys a year.
believe we can develop high quality, innovative, value-for-money and deliverable proposals that can add value to passengers, Government and our Scottish Citylink Limited shareholders.
Our share of Citylinks profit after tax for the year was 0.9m 2006: 0.1m.
During the year, we won the new 10-year South Western rail franchise, which The improvements made by our inter-city coach joint venture have marked will allow us to build on our record of achievement at South West Trains and the return of the coach as a real alternative to the train and the car.
Citylink Island Line in driving up operational performance and customer satisfaction, has achieved significant passenger growth on its inter-city coach service in as well as introducing new ideas to attract more people to rail travel.
addition to new journeys under the Scottish Executives national In April 2007, Stagecoach Group plc was selected by Greater Manchester concessionary travel scheme.
This is as a result of better connections, faster Passenger Transport Executive GMPTE to operate and maintain the services and lower fares.
Total like-for-like passenger volume growth in the Manchester Metrolink tram network.
Nearly 20 million passengers travel year was 36% compared to the equivalent period last year including the every year on the 37km Metrolink network.
The contract will run for a 10- period prior to the formation of the joint venture, which we estimate year term and is expected to commence shortly.
It will include managing a represents full fare passenger growth of 20% with the remainder coming number of special projects sponsored by GMPTE to improve the trams and from growth in the concessionary travel scheme.
Stagecoach will also be responsible for Under the Scottish Citylink joint venture, the Scottish coach network has operating tram services on the new Metrolink lines to Oldham, Rochdale, benefited from a simpler, integrated timetable, faster and more frequent Droylsden and Chorlton.
journeys, and excellent value-for-money fares.
On 22 June 2007, we welcomed the decision by the DfT to award the Group Although it has a minimal financial impact for the Group, we were extremely the new East Midlands rail franchise.
The new 7-year and 4-month franchise, concerned about the principles of the decision of the Competition which is worth 235m in annual revenue, will run from 11 November 2007.
Commission requiring the divestment of some routes operated by the joint The last 16 months are dependent on meeting performance targets.
The findings were out of step with the majority of evidence engaged with more than 80 local, regional and national stakeholder presented to the Commission by a range of independent parties, inconsistent organisations in developing our proposals for East Midlands, which combines with a number of previous inquiries into the Scottish public transport market, the current Midland Mainline franchise and regional services transferred from and contrary to Scottish Executive transport policy.
However, while we continue to disagree with the ruling, we are now working We have an interest in other bids for rail franchises where we believe our with the Commission to implement its decision.
expertise and ideas can improve services to passengers.
VRG, where Stagecoach has a 49% shareholding, submitted its plans earlier this year for Other financial matters the New Cross Country franchise, which is expected to start in the autumn and run until March 2016.
The DfT is expected to make its decision in Depreciation and intangible asset expenses summer 2007.
We have also partnered with Virgin and GNER Holdings to bid Earnings from continuing businesses before interest, taxation, depreciation, for InterCity East Coast, one of the UKs flagship franchises.
The Group would intangible asset expenses and exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA have a 45% interest in the business if the joint ventures bid is successful.
Depreciation from continuing franchise operation involves the running of regular services between London businesses for the year was 68.3m 2006: 61.0m.
The income statement Kings Cross, Peterborough, Doncaster, Leeds, York, Newcastle, Edinburgh and charge for intangible assets decreased from 20.5m to 14.7m.
This Glasgow, with a limited number of services extending to Inverness, Aberdeen, reduction of 5.8m principally reflects the 8.0m decrease in the goodwill Hull, Bradford, Skipton and Harrogate.
The DfT anticipates that the new charge for Virgin Rail Group, which totalled 5.1m 2006: 13.1m for the franchise will commence in late autumn 2007 and will continue until March year.
The reduced goodwill charge for Virgin Rail Group is because the prior 2015.
The DfT is expected to make an announcement on the successful year amount included additional charges due to the status of negotiations on bidder later this year.
Joint Ventures Exceptional items Virgin Rail Group Net exceptional gains before taxation of 169.6m 2006: 17.4m were Our share of VRGs profit after tax for the year was 18.9m 2006: 5.5m, recognised in the year.
This included a gain of 132.2m on the disposal of the after taking account of costs associated with VRGs bid for the New Cross Groups London bus operations, an adjustment to the gain on the prior year Country franchise.
This includes an exceptional gain of 5.4m in relation to sale of the Groups New Zealand operations of 0.6m, a non-cash gain of our share of the gain on disposal of Trainline.
Our share of operating profit, 28.9m relating to a past service pensions adjustment on the Stagecoach excluding the exceptional credit, was 12.4m 2006: 5.3m, our share of Group Pension Scheme, a 5.4m gain being our share of VRGs gain on the finance income was 3.7m 2006: 1.7m and our share of taxation charges disposal of its investment in Trainline Holdings Limited and 1.1m of other was 2.6m 2006: 1.5m.
losses relating to disposed operations.
Also, a gain of 3.6m 2006: 0.8m was recognised on the sale of properties.
We were pleased that in December 2006 VRG and the DfT agreed new commercial terms for the West Coast franchise through to March 2012.
A tax charge of 8.7m 2006: credit of 2.8m was recognised in respect of Passengers will benefit from enhanced frequencies, continued focus on exceptional items resulting in a net exceptional gain after tax of 160.9m further improvements to punctuality as well as extra seats and a major 2006: 20.2m.
increase in daily train services from December 2008.
Separate proposals being discussed with the DfT would provide further extra seats by Net finance income costs lengthening VRGs 53 nine-car Pendolino trains.
Net finance income from continuing operations was 0.7m compared to net finance charges of 15.9m in the previous year, because of a lower average net VRG has launched a major marketing campaign to attract more travellers, debt during the year principally as a result of the disposal of our London bus emphasising its value-for-money fares and the environmental benefits of business.
The Group now has a more efficient capital structure that has resulted travelling by rail compared to car and air.
This has resulted in significant in a lower number of ordinary shares but will mean a significant increase in growth, with customers taking advantage of lower cost advance purchase financial charges in the year ending 30 April 2008. tickets.
Passenger volumes on Virgin West Coast are continuing to grow and have Earnings per share increased by a further 11.1% over the past year.
During 2006, Virgin's Overall earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional Pendolino services have continued to win market share from the airlines, items increased by 10.4% to 11.7p, compared to 10.6p in 2006, reflecting the particularly on the London-Manchester and London-Liverpool routes.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 8 Summary Operating and Financial Review strong trading performance at each of our core divisions.
Basic earnings per Corporate social responsibility share increased sharply from 10.7p to 25.4p, reflecting the net exceptional We pride ourselves on delivering high-quality local services to local gains in the year.
As well as providing a range of economic and environmental benefits, our bus and rail services support social inclusion and Return of value bring people together.
We are committed to attracting more people to public Following the Groups disposals of its New Zealand and London bus transport.
It is central to our growth strategy, to the future success of our operations in November 2005 and August 2006 respectively, and the Groups Group, and also important to the future of the communities in which we continued strong cash generation, net debt was eliminated during the first 6 operate around the world.
We are committed to working in partnership with months of the financial year and the Group was subsequently left in a net the many stakeholders our services touch to achieve our mutual long-term cash funds position at 31 October 2006.
At that point, the Board announced goal of sustainable development.
it would be reviewing its capital structure and intended to return not less Stagecoach has a strong culture of meeting its wider corporate responsibilities, than 400m to shareholders.
A thorough review of the Groups position and from the way we do business and our approach to safety and the environment, prospects ensued during which time the West Coast mainline rail franchise in to how we treat our customers, our local communities and our own people.
which the Group has a 49% interest via VRG had been renegotiated, fuel Like the best businesses, we measure our performance and always strive to prices had decreased and continued strong revenue growth had been improve the delivery of our service to customers.
By building trust with our experienced in the Groups UK Bus and Rail divisions.
These factors coupled stakeholders, we believe we can make an increasingly positive impact on with the ability of the Group to borrow at attractive rates led the Board to society and the environment.
Here we have provided an overview of some of announce on 14 March 2007 that Stagecoach would return approximately 700m to shareholders, which equated to 63 pence per ordinary share in our people, safety, accessibility, environment and community initiatives.
issue at the Record Date, being 11 May 2007.
The return of value was Stakeholders approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 27 April 2007 and was completed in June 2007.
Since the balance sheet date, Stagecoach Group works in partnership with a range of bodies in each of the 277,777,735 B shares and 823,220,972 C Shares were issued in connection markets where we provide public transport services.
253,584,435 B Shares were redeemed at 63 pence each and the remaining 24,193,300 B Shares are redeemable in the future at Our People 63 pence each.
A special dividend of 63 pence per C Share was paid or The strength of our business is built on the high quality of our management waived on 458,001,388 C Shares which then converted to Deferred Shares of teams and frontline employees, from drivers and engineers to customer negligible value.
The remaining 365,219,584 C Shares were bought by Credit service and support staff.
These are the people that ensure we can deliver a Suisse for 63 pence each and were later bought by the Company for 63 pence first-class quality of service day in, day out, and encourage more people to use each and immediately cancelled.
By investing significant time and resources, we are able to have the right people on board to deliver for our customers.
For every 14 ordinary shares held on the Record Date being 11 May 2007, shareholders received 9 new ordinary shares and 14 B or C shares.
We respect and value our staff, and we have a strong commitment to equal opportunities and partnership working with trade unions.
Stagecoach also The holders of the remaining B Shares are entitled to payment of a nonoffers its employees the opportunity to join an excellent pension scheme as cumulative preferential dividend paid twice yearly in arrears on 31 May and 30 well as providing attractive pay and conditions packages.
November calculated at a pre-specified annual rate expressed as 70% of LIBOR for six month deposits in pounds sterling on the nominal amount per As a major employer, we also recognise the need for ongoing training and B Share.
development, not just so our people can do their job, but so they can develop individually.
In our UK Bus division, we have one of the best vocational All of the C Shares and Deferred Shares issued in May 2007 have now been training programmes of any operator, designed to raise standards among and cancelled.
recognise the key contribution of our drivers.
We continue to focus closely on recruitment and retention of drivers through improved pay, better training and Current trading and outlook mentoring schemes.
We have also established links overseas, as part of the The current financial year to 30 April 2008 has started strongly and trading is expansion of the European Union, to recruit drivers to complement our in line with our expectations.
There are a number of exciting opportunities employment campaigns in the UK.
Stagecoach has also won a national award across the Group and we are confident of achieving our objectives for the year.
for the high standard of its UK Bus training team, taking the Centre of the Year In UK Bus, the continued revenue growth, integration of acquired businesses, Award for training providers and employers at the Scottish Qualifications stable fuel costs and returns on additional pension contributions should result Authority Annual Awards 2006. in further strong progress for the year ending 30 April 2008.
At South West Trains, our centralised Recruitment Centre and the In North America, the claims environment remains challenging, but subject to state-of-the-art Operations Training Centre are continuing to deliver benefits effectively controlling claims costs, further growth is anticipated.
to our employees and better service to our customers.
We also have in place vocational training, support for managers, employee recognition programmes We expect, based on our forecasts for the new South Western rail franchise, profit from our wholly owned rail businesses to decrease in the year ending 30 and round-the-clock open learning access for our staff.
South West Trains, along with the majority of the UK passenger spends an average of more than 1,600 employee days a month training its rail industry is experiencing better than anticipated revenue growth.
While this people in addition to its three 24-hour open learning centres.
has been partly offset by cost increases, we remain confident of meeting our In North America, our centralised driver training school has improved the profit expectations for the ten-year South Western franchise that commenced quality and consistency of provision.
Our Canadian business has focused on 4 February 2007. closely on harnessing the power of the web to attract new employees and has been working in partnership with Workopolis, Canadas leading internet We shall begin operating the Manchester Metrolink tram network from July recruitment service.
2007 and the East Midlands rail franchise from November 2007, and expect both contracts to contribute to the Groups profit.
We are also looking to develop the managers of the future through our graduate recruitment initiative.
One of Stagecoachs managers received the The re-negotiated West Coast rail franchise is benefiting from good revenue Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport CILT Young Manager of the growth and increased market share which results in a positive outlook for the Year award, while one of our other former graduate trainees is now part of our year ending 30 April 2008.
The CrossCountry franchise terminates in management team in North America.
Stagecoach is working with the November 2007 and VRG is awaiting the outcome of its bid for the New Cross Department for Education and Skills and the Learning and Skills Council to Country franchise.
page 8 | Stagecoach Group plc 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 9 deliver a new two-year Young Apprenticeship programme.
Safety matters are also considered at the Board and enables Stagecoach to help shape the workforce of the future by offering able management meetings of each of our businesses.
and motivated 14 to 16-year-old pupils the chance to get a taste of work Our Group Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by our nonalongside their school studies.
executive director Janet Morgan, reports regularly to the Board on these Stagecoach wants to be there to help our people when they need it most.
They have access to internal safety executives and external South West Trains and North American businesses have care schemes, which consultants.
offer an employee assistance programme that includes a 24-hour confidential counselling service.
South West Trains runs regular health fairs across its In our UK Bus division, we are working in partnership with the Government network, offering employees the opportunity to have a cholesterol check, free and other agencies to improve bus safety and security.
While crime and flu vaccination or general check-up.
vandalism are relatively low, we are aware they can discourage people from travelling on buses.
We continue to invest in CCTV technology and all of our We are one of six employers across the UK involved in a cutting edge pilot new buses are fitted with security cameras.
In addition, we use driver safety scheme that aims to research and test various ways to improve financial screens and other measures to protect our passengers and our people.
We capability in the workplace.
The multi-agency project - co-ordinated by the have a number of joint programmes in place with schools and the police to Financial Services Authority FSA, the independent financial watchdog - deter anti-social behaviour and educate the next generation of public involves offering our staff one to one surgeries and hard copy material.
Stagecoach is also working with a number of local authorities workplace is seen as an ideal way to get information and education on finance in areas such as Oxford, Mansfield, Cheltenham and Gloucester to develop late to adults and active participation by employers is vital.
The pilot is part of a night bus networks to help reduce town centre crime.
national strategy to improve access to information, advice and personal finance education, so that consumers are better equipped to make sound At an operational level, we have in place a process of route risk assessments to choices when looking after their money and their future financial security.
As well as our own investment in ongoing driver training, we are supporting the work of the Road Operators Safety Council to drive up standards in the industry.
Stagecoach has also helped fund Improving accessibility safety campaigns focused on other road users, including cyclists and drivers of Accessibility is crucial in providing attractive public transport services and we agricultural vehicles.
recognise that every customer we serve is unique, each with their own specific individual needs.
As far as possible within the resources we have available, we Rail travellers on the South West Trains network are benefiting from a safe are making it easier to use our bus, rail and tram services.
environment on our state-of-the-art Desiro trains and on our refurbished Class 455 trains, which are fitted with CCTV technology.
All South West Trains rolling Over the last year, we have invested in over 500 new low floor buses in the UK stock is fitted with the Train Protection Warning System.
The companys and are on target to beat government deadlines for compliance with disability commitment has seen it twice win the Robert Horton Safety award at the legislation.
We have announced a further investment of 65m in new National Rail Awards.
accessible vehicles in the UK for 2007 8.
Earlier this year, we invested 11m in Britains longest coaches as part of a drive to attract people out of their cars Our award-winning TravelSafe Officers partnership with British Transport and away from low-cost airlines.
Police which helps ensure passenger safety - has been extended further in Significant investment is also taking place in our North American business in the past year to cover more routes and stations on the South West Trains partnership with federal agencies.
This year, our New York Sightseeing network.
South West Trains also has 51 Secure Stations the highest of any business introduced 13 new open-top double-decker vehicles with improved train company.
Under our new 10-year franchise, we are committed to wheelchair access ramps for disabled customers.
retaining the presence of a guard on every service.
Work is also continuing with Network Rail and British Transport Police to identify hot-spots and ensure On the South West Trains network, we operate an assisted travel line to effective measures are taken on both trains and at stations to reduce incidents encourage disabled travellers to book ahead so we can make arrangements to of assault, trespass and vandalism.
Our conflict avoidance training for ensure their journey runs smoothly.
employees has helped cut physical assaults on staff by more than 10% in the Access for all is also about staff training and we continue to maintain links last 12 months.
with disability groups to ensure both the needs of our passengers and In North America, we carry out regular safety audits of our facilities to ensure employees are considered.
At Sheffield Supertram we are making vehicles high standards of health and safety are maintained.
Along with other major more accessible to the visually impaired.
operators, we have assisted national bodies to put in place processes to Stagecoach Groups website, www.
com, has been developed address the impact of potential terrorist attacks on public transportation.
In in line with accessibility guidelines drawn up by the Royal National Institute for the United States, for example, we are working with the Federal Government the Blind.
Our consumer-facing websites are also designed to maximise ease to take part in anti-terrorism workshops for our employees and are beginning of use by customers with visual impairment.
to put in place anti-theft and GPS tracking, monitoring and communication systems.
In Canada, we have a dedicated Occupational Health and Safety Policy We have also taken further steps to improve the online purchase of tickets for Committee whose members are drawn equally from management and our transport services.
Stagecoach has launched the UKs first integrated workforce representatives.
budget coach and rail online booking service.
Customers using the marketleading megabus.
com budget travel sites can get both Public transport by bus, coach and train is the safest way to travel.
Stagecoach coach and rail options in one easy search, giving them access to 530 daily Group itself has a good safety record, but there is no room for complacency.
departures to around 50 UK locations from just 1, plus a 50p booking fee.
We constantly keep our safety arrangements under review and are committed to putting in place any improvements required to our safety governance Health and Safety arrangements.
Stagecoach has a proactive culture across the Group that puts health and safety at the core of our operations.
Bus, coach and rail travel is significantly Community involvement safer than similar journeys by car, and the safety and security of both our For more than 25 years, Stagecoach has been a key part of communities customers and our people are fundamental to our business.
As well as providing lifeline transport services and significant job opportunities, our Group is an integral part of local communities in the UK Health and safety is monitored and reported on across Stagecoach Group and and North America.
immediate action is taken to address issues in our business processes.
Safety is part of a well-defined risk management process across our business.
A main We help local people share in our success by funding the vital work of local, Board executive director, Brian Souter, has specific responsibility for safety national and international charities.
During the year ended 30 April 2007, issues across the Group and the Board is updated on safety matters at each of 0.7m 2006: 0.6m was donated by the Group to help many worthwhile Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 10 Summary Operating and Financial Review causes, including many health charities and local community projects in areas we have put in place stretching targets to reduce emissions, cut water and where Stagecoach provides lifeline bus and rail services.
energy consumption, minimise waste and identify opportunities for recycling.
By focusing on technological innovation - such as trials of cleaner fuels Stagecoach is providing 500,000 through a major four-year sponsorship to improved environmental management and training, and continued fund a gym at the new Oasis Academy in Grimsby.
The Academy, which will investment in our products and services, we have made further progress this have around 1,100 students, is a partnership between the Oasis Trust, North East Lincolnshire Council and the Department for Education and Skills to year.
improve choice for parents and raise the overall standard of education in the local area.
The Grimsby curriculum will be enhanced by a specialism in sports Our environmental initiatives and health.
Stagecoach has undertaken a number of initiatives and new ways of working over the past year to improve our own environmental performance and Stagecoachs support for the community is not just about money.
Hundreds of encourage people to take the green public transport option.
We are proud of our employees devote their own time every day to local projects that make a our record of achievement, but despite the huge progress and investment we real difference in their area.
Many make financial donations personally have made in the area of environmental sustainability, we realise that this is through give as you earn schemes.
Our businesses provide much needed inonly a start and we have a long way to go.
kind support, while our people also give charities the benefit of their expertise during secondments.
Buses Much of the backing we provide is focused on education and young people.
Stagecoach continues to make significant investment in modern vehicles with We work closely with schools and police on local crime prevention initiatives improved environmental performance.
We have invested around 80m in the and education of youngsters about the dangers and consequences of antiyear to 30 April 2007 in the continuing modernisation of our fleet, which meet social behaviour.
Our support also assists many local initiatives that help and often exceed the latest environmental standards.
provide opportunities for young people.
We have conducted the first UK trials of a bioethanol-fuelled bus outside At South West Trains, much of our focus is on projects designed to give young London to evaluate the technology that can use sugar beets to power vehicles.
people alternatives to anti-social behaviour, through schemes such as our The pilot study covered Liverpool, Barnsley, Sheffield, Newcastle and Eastleigh Street Sport sponsorship and our long-term support for the Carroll Manchester.
Ethanol-powered buses are already in operation in Sweden, Youth Centre.
We are also heavily involved in highlighting the dangers of Spain, Italy and Poland, delivering significant reductions in carbon dioxide and trespassing on railway lines, getting the message across to around 50,000 particulate matter.
In addition, we have also been involved in a scheme to assist with the rehabilitation of ex-offenders.
Stagecoach has further expanded the use of biodiesel to more than 4,300 vehicles in its UK Bus fleet as part of our drive to reduce greenhouse gas Stagecoach is also helping promote social inclusion with our communities and emissions and improve fuel efficiency.
The biodiesel we are using is a blend of help those who are the most vulnerable.
We have a national agreement with 95% diesel and 5% bio-matter, which can be derived from sources such as soy, Guide Dogs for the Blind that allows the dog trainers free travel on our buses palm, rape, sunflower and used cooking oil.
Our use of biodiesel now covers and trains.
We have also contributed to several homeless shelters, providing around 60% of our UK bus fleet.
funds for equipment and new dormitories.
South West Trains is a regular supporter of the Railway Children, a charity which helps runaway youngsters.
Emissions from dozens of Stagecoach workplaces across the UK have been cut significantly after the introduction of a hi-tech energy management system.
We have continued to support the UK educational charity businessdynamics, Gas consumption at 80 depots has been slashed by an average of 36%, while which provides courses designed to build the skills and confidence of young carbon dioxide emissions have been cut by more than 6,200 tonnes a year.
people as they prepare to enter the worlds of work and further education.
We The technology - now in place at 80 Stagecoach bus sites in Scotland, England have also supported a number of arts initiatives and this year marked the 10th and Wales - uses self-learning predictive programming, coupled with high anniversary of our sponsorship of the Mari Markus Gomori childrens concerts, accuracy temperature sensing.
It takes over the control of the existing heating which have been attended by more than 40,000 schoolchildren.
and delivers improved control, staff comfort and dramatic reductions in energy consumption.
Overseas, our businesses support the work of chambers of commerce, arts foundations, tourism associations, educational groups and other key services.
We are continuing with our megabus.
com marketing campaign to encourage We have again provided transport facilities to assist the annual Tartan Day budget travellers to switch from gas guzzler airlines to low-cost inter-city celebrations in New York, while similar support has been provided to a group coach travel to minimise damage to the environment.
Our analysis shows that, of British police officers that make an annual visit to the city to honour the on a per passenger basis, travel by megabus.
com can be more than six times Britons killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks.
more fuel efficient than flying with a budget airline, producing seven times less carbon dioxide emissions.
That is the cornerstone of our business philosophy and the key to In the United States, we have continued to replace older vehicles in our fleet building positive relationships with our stakeholders.
with coaches that feature reduced emissions engines with the latest technology.
During 2006-07, we replaced 40 coaches and 13 sightseeing double deckers with new models.
Building a sustainable environment Public transport is key to the future of our communities.
As well as making a We also have an action plan in place to comply with Federal US Environmental major contribution to social inclusion and the quality of life in our towns and Protection Agency EPA policies and procedures by creating Storm Water cities, bus, coach, rail and tram services are an important part of the solution Pollution Prevention Plans and Spill Containment and Countermeasure Plans to the global challenge of climate change.
in all our operations in the United States.
Buses and trains are five times more energy efficient than cars and produce In Canada, we have taken further steps to reduce direct emissions from our significantly less emissions per passenger journey.
As part of our compliance with engine emissions requirements acutely aware that any form of transport has an impact on the environment.
under Ontarios Drive Clean programme, 200 vehicles were tested during the That is why we are committed to making our own business as 12 months to 30 April 2007, resulting in a 93.5% pass rate on first test.
of 20 coaches were replaced with new vehicles, equipped with the latest engine technology, and all of our locations have converted to ultra-low We have published a Group Environmental Policy that sets out our sulphur diesel.
commitment to good environmental stewardship and for a number of years page 10 | Stagecoach Group plc 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 11 Trains South West Trains recently replaced its carriage washing machines with new modern washers, which use alkaline instead of acid wash and often recycle Environmental management is central to our approach in our rail operations.
Northam, the base for the state-of-the-art Desiro fleet, has a carriage As part of our commitment, all of our traincare depots have now achieved wash with a sophisticated filtration system.
The system deals with grease, ISO14001 accreditation.
Clapham, Wimbledon, Bournemouth, Salisbury, chemicals and oil, ensuring 75% of the water can be recycled.
While limited Farnham and Fratton depots achieved the status six months ahead of target.
space has prevented water recycling at every facility, all machines are fitted We have developed an industry leading waste segregation and recycling with tanks that hold one months detergent supply, reducing the frequency of operation at our South West Trains Wimbledon Traincare Depot, called deliveries.
Waste is sorted into different types, with items such as cardboard As well as ensuring it meets its own standards, South West Trains has taken and paper taken away for recycling.
A culture of re-use and recycle is steps to ensure high standards of supply chain management by using the ISO gathering pace to reduce waste being turned into landfill.
Recycling schemes 14001 environmental management standard in its selection criteria.
have been set up at nine pilot locations in partnership with waste management and recycling company SITA.
VRG our joint venture with Virgin Group, has launched a Go Greener.
Go Cheaper marketing campaign, part of a consistent push to take on domestic South West Trains has taken part in a trial of low sulphur gas oil fuel on one of airlines on speed, price, frequency and environmental credentials.
The its Class 159 diesel trains in conjunction with the Association of Train companys Pendolino trains emit at least 76% less carbon dioxide than cars Operating Companies and the Rail Safety and Standards Board.
The state-of-the-art Pendolino trains also minimise their carbon involving our Salisbury depot is successful, we expect to switch to this type of footprint by returning 17% of electricity used back to the National Grid every fuel for the diesel fleet in 2008 9. time they brake enough to provide power for 11,825 homes for a year.
In partnership with the Carbon Trust, South West Trains has focused on four sites to strengthen our energy and water management strategy.
Initiatives Our performance under consideration include the installation of automatic meters to monitor We have reviewed our approach to environmental performance measurement water usage and highlight leaks or fluctuations in demand.
this year to focus on core key performance indicators KPIs specific to each business and better aligned with our management system.
A massive environmental improvement has resulted from the introduction of controlled emission toilets to all but a handful of trains in the South West At the heart of our approach is a commitment to continuous year-on-year Trains fleet.
Effluent is collected in tanks, emptied at special depot facilities, improvement, with a focus on moving annual averages.
The KPIs for each of and transferred hygienically into the national sewage network.
From the end our divisions will be published on our website.
of 2007, all South West Trains units will be fitted with controlled emission toilets.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 12 page 12 | Stagecoach Group plc 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 13 Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 14 Summary Directors remuneration report The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance relating to remuneration report, the Remuneration Committee has followed the Directors remuneration and has applied them as described below.
provisions of the Combined Code.
In accordance with Schedule 7A Directors Remuneration Report to the Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors Companies Act 1985, those paragraphs that have been audited have been highlighted as such.
Other than the Chairman, each Non-Executive Director generally receives the same level of fixed fee.
The fee for each Non-Executive Director for the year This is the Summary Directors remuneration report.
The Board balances the Directors remuneration report is contained in the 2007 Annual Report.
The responsibilities of each Non-Executive Director for example, Chairmanship full 2007 Annual Report may be obtained from the Company registrar at the and or membership of Committees such that, over the medium term, each address and telephone number on page 17.
Non-Executive Director has a similar level of workload and commitment.
However, Iain Duffin received a fee of 42,000 for the year ended 30 April Composition of the Remuneration Committee 2007 to reflect the additional work involved in his temporary Chairmanship of During the year ended 30 April 2007, Iain Duffin chaired the Remuneration the Audit Committee.
Committee and the other members were Russell Walls, until his resignation on The Board of Directors as a whole, having given due regard to the required 25 August 2006, and Janet Morgan, all three of whom are independent Nontime commitment and responsibilities, sets the fees and expenses payable to Executive Directors.
Sir George Mathewson joined the Committee in May the Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not hold any share 2007 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Committee meetings which options, nor do they participate in any incentive plans or pension schemes took place during the period from when Russell Walls resigned until Sir George with the exception of Ann Gloag who receives a pension accrued when she Mathewson was formally appointed, were attended by at least one other was an executive director.
The members of the Remuneration Committee independent Non-Executive Director.
From 1 July 2007, the Committee will have no personal interest in the matters to be decided other than as comprise Iain Duffin Chairman, Sir George Mathewson and Garry Watts.
shareholders, no potential conflicts of interest arising from crossThe Committee has responsibility for approving the remuneration and terms directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the businesses of the of employment for the Executive Directors and the Chairman, including Stagecoach Group.
pensions rights and any compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee also monitors and makes appropriate recommendations with Performance graph respect to the remuneration of other senior management.
The graph below charts the performance of the Stagecoach Group Total The Committee has access to independent research and advice from its Shareholder Return TSR share value movement plus reinvested dividends remuneration consultants, KPMG, appointed by the Remuneration over the 5 years to 30 April 2007 compared with that of the FTSE Transport Committee.
KPMG provides certain other services to the Group, from time to and Leisure All-Share Index, the FTSE Mid 250 Index and the FTSE All-Share time, including due diligence, actuarial services and pension scheme audits.
We have included a further graph to highlight the Companys more Both the constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee comply recent performance, charting TSR for the 12 months up to 30 April 2007. with the principles and provisions incorporated in the Combined Code with In assessing the performance of the Companys TSR the Board believes the the exception of departures noted in section 6.2 of the Corporate comparator groups it has chosen represent a fair benchmark both in terms of Governance Report in the Annual Report for 2007.
In preparing the Directors the nature of the business activity and size of company.
Stagecoach TSR Comparative Performance since 30 April 2002 350 Stagecoach TSR FTSE Transport & Leisure TSR FTSE A S TSR FTSE 250 TSR 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Stagecoach 1 Year TSR Comparative Performance to 30 April 2007 Stagecoach TSR FTSE Transport & Leisure TSR FTSE A S TSR FTSE 250 TSR 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 Jun-06 Apr-06 May-06 Jul-06 Aug-06 Sept-06 Oct-06 Nov-06 Dec-06 Jan-07 Feb-07 Mar-07 Apr-07 page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc Apr-02 Jul-02 Sep-02 Nov-02 Feb-03 Apr-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Nov-03 Jan-04 Mar-04 Jun-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Mar-04 May-04 Aug-04 Oct-04 Jan-05 Mar-05 May-05 Aug-05 Oct-05 Dec-05 Feb-06 May-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Feb-07 Apr-07 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 15 Remuneration Policy Remuneration of Executive Directors and The Remuneration Policy was approved by our shareholders at the 2006 Other Executives audited Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee follows the The remuneration of the Executive Directors and other executives may Combined Code in designing performance-related remuneration schemes.
comprise a number of elements from the following: Basic salary: In determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee aims to provide overall packages of terms and Performance-related annual cash bonuses: conditions that are competitive in the UK and will attract, retain and motivate Executive Participation Plan EPP : high quality executives capable of achieving Stagecoach Groups objectives Benefits in kind and other allowances: and to ensure that they are fairly rewarded for their individual responsibilities and contributions to the Groups overall performance.
The Remuneration Pension arrangements: Committee believes that such packages should contain significant Share options: and performance-related elements and that these performance-related elements Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
should be designed to align the interests of the Executive Directors and other senior managers with the interests of shareholders.
Performance targets are The participation of the two Executive Directors in the above arrangements established to achieve consistency with the interests of shareholders, with an during the year ended 30 April 2007 is summarised in Table 1.
The appropriate balance between short-and long-term targets.
Performance Executive Directors have not received executive share options in the year targets can include traditional financial indicators and personal targets, ended 30 April 2007. successful investment, innovation, staff development, customer satisfaction Each Executive Directors remuneration package is tailored to the individual and achievement of regulatory requirements, including health, safety and to ensure an appropriate balance of reward for responsibilities, motivation, environmental targets.
retention and share participation, whilst ensuring the overall packages are To this end, the Remuneration Committee reviews the existing remuneration appropriate to recruit and retain high quality executives capable of of the Executive Directors, in consultation with the Chief Executive, making achieving the Groups objectives.
comparisons with peer companies of similar size and complexity and with Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2007 is shown in the other companies in the public transport industry.
Proposals for the table beneath and on page 16. forthcoming year are then discussed in the light of the prospects for the Group.
The Remuneration Committee is also kept informed of the salary No directors exercised share options during the year.
levels of other senior executives employed by the Stagecoach Group.
With regard to pensions, the Remuneration Committee has access to reports from the trustees and scheme actuaries regarding the cost of pension obligations.
Basic TABLE 1 DIRECTORS Salary Annual Benefits in Share PARTICIPATION bonus EPP kind Pension Options LTIP Brian Souter YES YES YES YES NO YES Martin Griffiths YES YES YES YES NO YES The Executive Directors have not received further awards of executive share options, following the approval of the EPP and LTIP at the 2005 AGM.
TABLE 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Performance Performance related Benefits in Non-pensionable amounts in 000 AUDITED Salary fees related bonus cash bonus EPP kind allowances Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Executive directors Brian Souter 514 499 257 204 257 204 17 17 Nil Nil 1,045 924 Martin Griffiths 257 242 128 103 128 103 20 20 42 36 575 504 Graham Eccles resigned 30 April 2006 Nil 269 Nil 161 Nil Nil Nil 25 Nil 44 Nil 499 Non-executive directors Ewan Brown 40 38 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 40 38 Ann Gloag 40 38 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 40 38 Robert Speirs 110 110 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 110 110 Russell Walls resigned 25 August 2006 13 38 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 13 38 Janet Morgan 40 38 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 40 38 Iain Duffin 42 38 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 42 38 Sir George Mathewson appointed 8 June 2006 33 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 33 Nil Total 1,089 1,310 385 468 385 307 37 62 42 80 1,938 2,227 Consultancy fee paid to former directors: Graham Eccles 80 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 80 Nil Non-pensionable allowances represent additional taxable remuneration paid to provide pension benefits.
Following his retirement as a director on 30 April 2006, Graham Eccles receives an annual fee of 80,000 for consultancy for the two-year period to 30 April 2008.
In addition, Graham Eccles was paid 300,000 during the year ended 30 April 2007 in respect of amounts due under the Stagecoach Executive Directors Long Term Bonus Scheme.
For details of the scheme, which is no longer applied, please see details in the 2006 Annual Report.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 16 Summary Directors remuneration report Martin Griffiths was subject to the statutory pensionable earnings cap that Scheme to secure additional final salary type benefits equivalent in actuarial existed until 5 April 2006 and since then, the Company has continued to value to the proceeds transferred.
The additional benefits are reflected in the impose a notional pensionable earnings cap.
The Company makes cash disclosure of Brian Souters accrued benefits above.
In Ann Gloags case, her contributions to Martin Griffiths for the part of his salary that exceeds the share of the SSAS assets along with the cash equivalent of her benefits in the notional earnings cap.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
The additional cash Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme were transferred into a personal pension contribution equates to one-third of the excess above the notional earnings arrangement that provides her with an annual pension of 81,146.
Brian Souter joined the pension scheme prior to the application of the contributions to the SSAS ceased in 2000 for Ann Gloag and in 2001 for statutory pensionable earnings cap and was therefore not subject to such cap.
To maintain consistency, Brian Souter is therefore not subject to the notional Directors who are members of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme have earnings cap.
the option to pay additional voluntary contributions AVCs.
Neither the During the year ended 30 April 2002, the remaining proceeds of a small self contributions nor the resulting benefits of any AVCs are included in the table administered money purchase scheme SSAS established for Brian Souter below.
and Ann Gloag in 1992 were transferred into the Stagecoach Group Pension TABLE 3 DIRECTORS PENSION Additional Transfer value Increase in Transfer BENEFITS amounts in 000 accrued benefits Accrued Accrued lump of increase transfer value less value of AUDITED in the year pension sum excluding inflation Directors contributions pension Excluding Including inflation inflation 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Executive directors Brian Souter 47 75 285 264 543 489 157 167 117 4,114 3,957 Martin Griffiths 10 14 33 30 100 89 21 13 21 277 256 TABLE 4 DIRECTORS BONUSES Maximum potential Actual bonus as a bonus as a percentage of percentage of basic salary basic salary Director Cash Shares Cash Shares Brian Souter 50% 50% 50% 50% Martin Griffiths 50% 50% 50% 50% page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 61109 StChSummary Txt 6 7 07 14:48 Page 17 Independent auditors statement to the members of Stagecoach Group plc We have examined the summary financial statements which comprise the Basis of opinion Summary consolidated income statement, Summary consolidated balance We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, 'The auditors sheet, Summary consolidated cash flow statement, and the Summary statement on the Summary financial statement' issued by the Auditing Directors remuneration report set out on pages 14 to 16.
Our report on the companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Opinion Summary financial statements within the Summary Annual Report with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made remuneration report of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April thereunder.
2007 and comply with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summary Annual Report and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with section 251 of the  LLP companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Glasgow person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
27 June 2007 Registered office and advisers Company Secretary Merchant Bankers Principal Bankers Ross Paterson Noble Grossart Limited Bank of Scotland 48 Queen Street New Uberior House Registered Office Edinburgh EH2 3NH 11 Earl Grey Street 10 Dunkeld Road Edinburgh EH3 9BN Perth PH1 5TW Independent Auditors Telephone 44 0 1738 442 111  LLP Solicitors Facsimile 44 0 1738 643 648 Kintyre House Shepherd & Wedderburn LLP Email info@stagecoachgroup.
com 209 West George Street Saltire Court Glasgow G2 2LW 20 Castle Terrace Company Number Edinburgh EH1 2ET SC 100764 Stockbrokers Credit Suisse Herbert Smith Registrars 1 Cabot Square Exchange House Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland London E14 4QJ Primrose Street PO Box 28448 London EC2A 2HS Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 18 Summary consolidated income statement For the year ended 30 April 2007 2007 2006 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year Notes m m m m m m CONTINUING OPERATIONS Revenue 1,504.6 Nil 1,504.6 1,343.9 Nil 1,343.9 Operating costs 1,571.0 19.3 1,551.7 1,422.2 7.4 1,429.6 Other operating income 213.5 Nil 213.5 205.7 Nil 205.7 Operating profit of Group companies 147.1 19.3 166.4 127.4 7.4 120.0 Share of profit loss of joint ventures after finance income and taxation 14.2 0.3 14.5 5.6 13.1 7.5 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit loss after taxation 2 161.3 19.6 180.9 133.0 20.5 112.5 Gain on sale of properties Nil 3.6 3.6 Nil 0.8 0.8 Loss on disposed operations and sale of investments Nil 1.1 1.1 Nil 5.9 5.9 Profit before interest and taxation 161.3 22.1 183.4 133.0 25.6 107.4 Finance costs 20.7 Nil 20.7 23.6 Nil 23.6 Finance income 21.4 Nil 21.4 7.7 Nil 7.7 Profit before taxation 162.0 22.1 184.1 117.1 25.6 91.5 Taxation 37.8 5.8 43.6 25.3 5.0 20.3 Profit for the year from continuing operations 124.2 16.3 140.5 91.8 20.6 71.2 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Profit for the year from discontinued operations 4.0 132.8 136.8 21.7 22.5 44.2 TOTAL OPERATIONS Profit after taxation for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 128.2 149.1 277.3 113.5 1.9 115.4 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations Adjusted Basic 11.7p 25.4p 10.6p 10.7p Diluted 11.6p 25.1p 10.4p 10.6p Earnings per share from continuing operations Adjusted Basic 11.4p 12.9p 8.5p 6.6p Diluted 11.2p 12.7p 8.4p 6.5p Dividends per ordinary share Interim paid 1 1.2p 1.1p Final proposed 1 2.9p 2.6p The accompanying notes form an integral part of this consolidated income statement.
An interim dividend of 13.1m was paid during the year ended 30 April 2007 2006: 12.0m.
A final dividend of 20.4m has been proposed for approval in respect of the year ended 30 April 2007 2006: 28.4m.
page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 19 Summary consolidated balance sheet As at 30 April 2007 2007 2006 m m Non-current assets 779.6 893.4 Current assets 669.1 395.3 Total assets 1,448.7 1,288.7 Current liabilities 497.7 501.4 Non-current liabilities 438.7 575.7 Total liabilities 936.4 1,077.1 Net assets 512.3 211.6 EQUITY Ordinary share capital 7.0 6.9 Share premium account 179.4 174.8 Retained earnings 91.8 212.1 Capital redemption reserve 243.0 243.0 Own shares 7.3 6.1 Translation reserve 3.0 4.0 Available for sale reserve Nil 1.9 Cash flow hedging reserve 4.6 0.8 Total equity 512.3 211.6 These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 June 2007.
Brian Souter Martin A Griffiths Chief Executive Finance Director Summary consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 30 April 2007 2007 2006 m m Net cash from operating activities after tax 162.3 175.5 Net cash inflow outflow from investing activities 232.9 9.9 Net cash used in financing activities 80.1 106.3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 315.1 59.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 198.3 138.5 Exchange rate effects 0.9 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 512.5 198.3 Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 21 Shareholder information Analysis of shareholders as at 30 April 2007 Range of holdings Number of Ordinary holders % shares held % 1 25,000 44,672 98.27 68,097,667 6.19 25,001 250,000 539 1.19 43,527,433 3.95 250,001 500,000 68 0.15 24,302,212 2.21 500,001 3,750,000 128 0.28 184,111,278 16.72 Over 3,750,000 52 0.11 780,960,117 70.93 45,459 100.00 1,100,998,707 100.00 Classification of shareholders Number of Ordinary holders % shares held % Individuals 43,630 95.98 304,207,643 27.63 Other corporate bodies 50 0.11 48,591,074 4.41 Banks and Nominees 1,627 3.58 698,236,407 63.42 Limited companies 147 0.32 49,938,281 4.54 Pension funds 5 0.01 25,302 Nil 45,459 100.00 1,100,998,707 100.00 Registrar All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should, in the first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar and clearly state the shareholders name and address.
Please write to: Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, PO Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
Registrar forms can be obtained on-line at http: www.
com scg ir shareholder registrar Stagecoach individual savings accounts The Company has appointed Halifax Share Dealing Limited as an ISA provider and shareholders who would like further information should contact their help desk on 08457 22 55 25.
The Company has also made arrangements with Stocktrade for Maxi and Mini ISAs.
Full details and an application form are available from Stocktrade a division of Brewin Dolphin, 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3ES.
Low cost share dealing facility The Company has set up a low cost execution only share dealing facility with a division of Brewin Dolphin, Stocktrade, exclusive to Stagecoach shareholders.
The commission is 0.5% up to 10,000 with 0.2% being charged on the excess thereafter, subject to a 15 minimum.
Shareholders who would like further information should write to Stocktrade, 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3ES.
Telephone 0845 601 0995, quoting dealing reference Low Co020.
Postal dealing packs are available on request.
Payment of dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The mandates enable the Company to pay dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS system is that the registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholder bank or building society account.
Shareholders who wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys registrar address above to send them a dividend interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to the next dividend tax voucher they receive.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan which allows a shareholders cash dividend to be used to buy Stagecoach shares at favourable commission rates.
Shareholders who would like further information should telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland on 0870 241 3018.
Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting Interim Report 24 August 2007 December 2007 Payment Date Ordinary Shares Interim Dividend Final Dividend March 2008 3 October 2007 Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 61109 StChSummary Txt 5 7 07 19:13 Page 20 Notes to the Summary Annual Report Note1 Dividends 2007 2006 m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.3p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 Nil 24.6 Interim dividend paid of 1.1p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 Nil 12.0 Final dividend paid of 2.6p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 28.4 Nil Interim dividend paid of 1.2p per share for the year ended 30 April 2007 13.1 Nil Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 41.5 36.6 Dividends proposed but neither paid nor included as liabilities in the financial statements Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.6p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 Nil 28.4 Final dividend proposed of 2.9p per share for the year ended 30 April 2007 20.4 Nil 20.4 28.4 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 April 2007 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in the financial statements.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable on 3 October 2007 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 31 August 2007.
Note2 Segmental analysis and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA The results of each segment are further analysed below: Year ended 30 April 2007 Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture EBITDA pre intangible Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and including joint Depreciation and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax venture interest expense items expenses items costs profit m m and tax m m m m m m UK Bus - excluding acquisition impact 121.1 Nil 121.1 38.6 82.5 1.1 28.9 0.4 109.9 UK Bus - 2005 06 acquisitions 7.9 Nil 7.9 5.9 2.0 5.3 Nil 0.6 3.9 North America 33.7 Nil 33.7 15.6 18.1 0.4 Nil Nil 17.7 UK Rail subsidiaries 66.9 Nil 66.9 8.1 58.8 2.8 Nil 2.2 53.8 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 12.4 1.1 13.5 Nil 13.5 5.1 5.4 Nil 13.8 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 1.3 0.4 0.9 Nil 0.9 Nil Nil Nil 0.9 N America joint venture Splash Tours 0.2 Nil 0.2 Nil 0.2 Nil Nil Nil 0.2 Group overheads 11.0 NIl 11.0 0.1 11.1 Nil Nil Nil 11.1 Restructuring costs 3.2 Nil 3.2 Nil 3.2 Nil Nil 3.2 Nil 228.9 0.7 229.6 68.3 161.3 14.7 34.3 Nil 180.9 Year ended 30 April 2006 Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture EBITDA pre intangible Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and including joint Depreciation and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax venture interest expense items expenses items costs profit m m and tax m m m m m m UK Bus - excluding acquisition impact 101.7 Nil 101.7 36.7 65.0 1.2 Nil 0.2 63.6 UK Bus - 2005 06 acquisitions 0.5 Nil 0.5 2.4 1.9 2.4 Nil 0.8 5.1 North America 32.9 Nil 32.9 16.0 16.9 0.8 Nil Nil 16.1 UK Rail subsidiaries 64.7 Nil 64.7 5.8 58.9 3.0 Nil 0.4 55.5 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 5.3 0.2 5.5 Nil 5.5 13.1 Nil Nil 7.6 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 0.1 Nil 0.1 Nil 0.1 Nil Nil Nil 0.1 Group overheads 9.9 Nil 9.9 0.1 10.0 Nil Nil 0.1 10.1 Restructuring costs 1.5 Nil 1.5 Nil 1.5 Nil Nil 1.5 Nil 193.8 0.2 194.0 61.0 133.0 20.5 Nil Nil 112.5 page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc Group Headquarters 10 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 5TW Scotland T 44 0 1738 442 111 F 44 0 1738 643 648 www.
