59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:32 Page 45 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies These consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the functional and presentational currency of the Group, and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
New standards adopted early The Group has adopted the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures, which is compulsory for accounting periods commencing after January 2007.
The disclosures are included in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 13 and 14.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements: Effective date IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007 IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised March 2007 1 January 2009 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives 1 June 2006 IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will need to expand the disclosures in relation to the fair value of its financial instruments and its risk exposure.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to materially impact the Groups profit or net assets.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of any of the other above standards or interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Comparatives Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to conform with changes in presentation in the current year.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates made up to 30 April in each year.
The consolidated income statement includes the results of businesses purchased from the effective date of acquisition and excludes the results of disposed operations and businesses sold from the effective date of disposal.
Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries, which are those entities in which the Group has an interest of more than one half of the voting rights or otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies, are consolidated.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method also known as the acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
ii Associates and joint ventures Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are enterprises that the Group has the power to jointly govern the enterprises financial and operating policies with other investors based on contractual agreement.
Associates are enterprises, other than joint ventures, that are not controlled by the Group over which the Group generally has between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, or over which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Groups consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of profits less losses of joint ventures and associates, while the share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Where the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate exceeds its interest in that enterprise, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Where the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of joint ventures the Groups share of net liabilities is included within Trade and other payables.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in each business: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 45 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:32 Page 46 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued ii Associates and joint ventures continued The Groups investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill on acquisition.
The Group applies its own accounting policies and estimates when accounting for its share of joint ventures and associates, making appropriate adjustments where necessary, having due regard to all relevant factors.
Presentation of income statement and exceptional items Where applicable, income statement information has been presented in a columnar format, which separately highlights intangible asset expenses and exceptional items.
This is intended to enable users of the financial statements to determine more readily the impact of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items on the results of the Group.
For this purpose, exceptional items are items which individually, or if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed, by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to allow proper understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the period.
Although these estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates and assumptions used.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement of tax assets and liabilities, the measurement of retirement benefit obligations, the measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement of insurance provisions.
The measurement of tax assets and liabilities requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequence of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
The measurement of retirement benefit obligations requires the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, the expected return on scheme assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 27.
The Group determines whether goodwill arising on business combinations is impaired on an annual basis and this requires the estimation of value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 11.
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
Those accounting policies that the Directors believe require the greatest exercise of judgement are described on page 14.
Revenue Revenue represents gross revenue earned from public transport services and excludes payments received on account.
Amounts receivable for tendered services and concessionary fare schemes are included as part of revenue.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and VAT.
Revenues incidental to the Groups principal activity including advertising income and maintenance income are reported as miscellaneous revenue see note 5.
Rail revenue includes amounts attributable to the train operating companies, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry in respect of passenger receipts.
Franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport DfT are treated as other operating income see note 5.
Franchise agreement payments to the DfT are recognised in operating costs.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
Net compensation receivable by UK Rail companies in respect of service disruption under the performance regime provisions of the track access agreements with Network Rail is recognised over the expected period of disruption and is shown as other operating income.
Income from advertising and other activities is recognised as the income is earned.
Finance income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method.
Government grants Grants from government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate.
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded as liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.
Revenue grants receivable in respect of the operation of rail franchises in the UK are credited to the income statement in the period in which the related expenditure is recognised in the income statement or where they do not relate to any specific expenditure, in the period in respect of which the grant is receivable.
These rail franchise grants are classified within other operating income.
Share based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees.
The Group has applied the optional exemption contained within IFRS 1, which allows it to apply IFRS 2 only to equity instruments granted after 7 November 2002 that have not vested before the date of transition, being 1 May 2004.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market based vesting page 46 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:32 Page 47 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Share based payments continued Equity-settled transactions continued conditions and no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of a failure to satisfy a non-market based vesting condition.
None of the Groups equity-settled transactions have any market based performance conditions.
Fair value for equity-settled share based payments is estimated by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated based on managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest taking into consideration the likelihood of achieving non-market based vesting conditions.
The movement in this cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled by the Group, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value.
Fair value is estimated initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
Market based performance conditions are taken into account when determining fair value.
Fair value for cash-settled share based payments being only those that relate to the Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated by use of a simulation model.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the estimated fair value of the award and the portion of the vesting period expired as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Choice of settlement The Company can choose to settle awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently intends to settle all such awards in cash.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are accounted for as cash-settled transactions see above.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and after the share of after-tax results of associates and joint ventures but before finance income, finance costs, non-operating exceptional items, taxation and profit from discontinued operations.
Taxation Tax, current and deferred, is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits at the current rate applicable.
Tax charges and credits are accounted for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax is measured at tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and law enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dividends Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Groups shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations, the business segments can be directly aligned with the geographical segments.
The Group is managed, and reports internally on a basis consistent with its three segments which consist of UK Bus, North America, and UK Rail.
The New Zealand division was disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2006 and Stagecoachs London bus operations part of the UK Bus segment were disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2007.
The results of both disposed operations for the relevant year up to the date of disposal and for the comparative year are now included within the profit for the year from discontinued operations.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements of overseas subsidiaries are maintained in the local currencies in which the entities transact business.
The trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations, together with exchange differences arising on net foreign currency borrowings and foreign currency derivatives, to the extent they hedge the Groups investment in overseas operations, are recognised as a separate component of equity being the translation reserve.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 47 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 48 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation continued Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
On disposal of a foreign subsidiary, the amount of any exchange differences relating to the subsidiary that has been deferred in the translation reserve is recognised in the income statement within the reported gain or loss on disposal.
The Group took the IFRS 1 exemption which allows accumulated PRINCIPAL RATES OF EXCHANGE 2007 2006 US Dollar: Year end rate 1.9999 1.8176 Average rate 1.9103 1.7751 Canadian Dollar: Year end rate 2.2102 2.0368 Average rate 2.1738 2.1079 New Zealand Dollar Period end rate as at date of disposal n a 2.4606 Average rate average up to date of disposal n a 2.5641 exchange differences at the date of transition, being 1 May 2004, to be set to zero for all foreign subsidiaries.
Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prior to 1 May 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 30 April 2004 but goodwill amortisation expensed prior to 1 May 2004 was not reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 30 April 1998 and earlier periods was written off directly to reserves in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the disposed operation when determining the overall gain or loss on disposal.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding goodwill, financial assets and other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are capitalised at cost.
The initial cost recognised is the aggregate amount paid plus the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on the straight-line method to write-off the cost or fair value at acquisition as the case may be of each asset over their estimated useful lives shown below.
Intangible assets relating to rail franchises of a finite duration are amortised over the life of the franchise.
Customer contracts over the life of the contract 1 to 6 years for current contracts Right to operate rail franchises over the life of the franchise 3 years from February 2004 to February 2007 for old South West Trains franchise and 10 years from February 2007 to February 2017 for new South Western franchise Non-compete contracts between 2 and 5 years for current contracts Software costs 2 to 5 years Marketing costs incurred during the start-up phase of a new activity are charged to the income statement as incurred.
page 48 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 49 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired as part of a business combination is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost, fair value at acquisition or deemed cost of each asset to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Heritable and freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties period of lease IT and other equipment, furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years Public Service Vehicles PSVs and transportation equipment 7 to 16 years Motor cars and other vehicles 3 to 5 years Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated The carrying value of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount.
The useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually and, where applicable, adjustments are made on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Interest is not capitalised in the carrying value of property, plant and equipment.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO or average cost method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.
Pre-contract costs The costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred, except when at the time the costs are incurred it is probable that a contract will be awarded in which case they are recognised as an asset and are charged to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Hire purchase and lease obligations Assets acquired under hire purchase and finance lease arrangements, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges, and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Assets capitalised under finance leases and other similar contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful economic lives.
Assets capitalised under hire purchase contracts are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The principal restriction on assets held under finance lease or hire purchase agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.
Tokens Tokens issued by National Transport Tokens Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, to facilitate public passenger travel in the United Kingdom are credited to a token redemption provision to the extent they are expected to be redeemed by customers.
Redemptions are offset against this provision and associated handling commission paid to third parties is included in operating costs.
Funds from the sale of tokens required for token redemption are included as a financing activity in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The estimate of the balance sheet provision for token redemption is remeasured at each balance sheet date and is based on the value of tokens issued by the Group but not yet redeemed or cancelled at the balance sheet date.
Allowance is made for the estimated proportion of tokens in issue that will never be redeemed.
This allowance is estimated with reference to historic redemption rates.
At 30 April 2007, it has been estimated that 97% 30 April 2006: 97% of tokens in issue will be redeemed.
Environmental provisions Provisions for environmental costs are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to undertake environmental clean-ups or other work in respect of environmental matters and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
The amounts recognised are the best estimate of the expenditure that will be required to meet the Groups obligations.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 49 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Insurance The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made on a discounted basis for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimate of the balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not yet been reported to the Group.
The provision is set after taking account of advice from third party actuaries.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
The principal defined benefit occupational schemes are as follows: The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme SGPS The South West Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS The Island Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS A number of UK local Government Pension Schemes LGPS The Yorkshire Traction Company Limited Pension Plan YTC The Strathtay Scottish Omnibuses Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SSO The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, as amended to allow actuarial gains and losses to be charged to the statement of recognised income and expense in the period they arise.
In respect of these defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at market value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are included within operating profit and are disclosed separately in the notes to the financial statements: service costs are spread systematically over the working lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Mortality rates are considered when retirement benefit obligations are calculated.
Past service costs and adjustments are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period the vesting period, in which case the past service costs are amortised using a straight-line method over the vesting period.
Past service pension adjustments which impact on the income statement for the year are disclosed within exceptional items, where material to the financial statements.
The disposal of the Groups London bus operations during the year ended 30 April 2007 resulted in a settlement and curtailment of pension obligations.
Curtailments arise where the Group makes a material reduction in the number of employees covered by a pension scheme or amends a defined benefit pension schemes terms such that a material element of future service by current employees will qualify for no or significantly reduced benefits.
Settlements arise when the Group enters into a transaction that eliminates all or part of the Groups obligations for benefits provided under a defined benefit pension scheme.
The gain or loss arising on a settlement or curtailment comprises the resulting change in the net pension asset or liability, and such gain or loss is recognised in the income statement when the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Where the gain or loss is related to a disposal of a business, it is included within the reported gain or loss on disposal within profit or loss from discontinued operations.
A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for each scheme with the deficit being updated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related obligations.
Experience adjustments and changes in assumptions which affect actuarial gains and losses are reflected in the actuarial gain or loss for the year within the statement of recognised income and expense in the year in which they arise.
The liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of RPS represents only that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer expects to fund or recover over asset or the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to privately administered pension plans.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Financial instruments The disclosure of the accounting policies that follow for financial instruments are those that apply under IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified, as appropriate, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments or as available for sale.
They include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short-term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
page 50 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 51 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Loans and receivables: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Held-to-maturity investments: Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold the investment to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Held-to-maturity gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the assets are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Investments intended to be held for an undefined period cannot be included in this classification.
Available for sale financial assets: Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the above categories.
After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the asset is derecognised or until the asset is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement.
Other: All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to appropriate market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using pricing models and discounted cash flow analysis.
Otherwise assets are carried at cost.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, including intra-group transactions: or Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity.
Net gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are either not designated or not effective as hedging instruments from an accounting perspective.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Fair value hedges: For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both the derivative and the hedged item are taken to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
For hedged items carried at amortised cost, the hedge adjustment is amortised through the income statement such that it is fully amortised by maturity.
Cash flow hedges: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For cash flow hedges of forecast fuel purchases, the transfer is to operating costs within the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement.
Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: For hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 51 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Non-derivative financial liabilities can be designated as hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity and are subject to the same requirements as derivative hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Trade debtors and other receivables Trade debtors and other receivables are carried at original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are discounted to the present value at the point they are first recognised and are subsequently amortised to the invoice amount by the payment due date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest for similar borrowers.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments, less bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Interest on borrowings to purchase property, plan and equipment is expensed in the income statement.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.
Preferred shares Preferred shares, which are redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholder, or which carry non-discretionary dividend obligations, are classified as liabilities.
The dividend on these preferred shares is recognised in the income statement as an interest expense.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares, are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company, its subsidiaries or employee share ownership trusts sponsored by the Company purchases the Companys ordinary share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable incremental external costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in equity.
The accounting policy in relation to preferred shares is included in the accounting policy for financial instruments above.
Note 2 Segmental information The Group is managed, and reports internally, on a basis consistent with its three continuing business segments which consist of UK Bus, North America and UK Rail.
The Groups IFRS accounting policies are applied consistently, where appropriate to each segment.
The segmental information provided in this note is on the basis of three primary segments, and gives the details for both business segments and geographical segments as follows: Segment name Business segment Geographical segment UK Bus Coach and bus operations United Kingdom North America Coach and bus operations North America UK Rail Rail operations United Kingdom UK Bus and North America provide coach and bus services while UK Rail provides rail services.
The Groups London bus operations were disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2007.
These operations were formerly part of the UK Bus segment but have been reclassified as discontinued.
The Groups New Zealand operations that were formerly a separate segment were disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2006.
Therefore there is no segment income statement information provided for the New Zealand operations.
Due to the nature of the services the Group provides, the primary and secondary segments coincide.
The Group has interests in three joint ventures: Virgin Rail Group that operates in UK Rail, Citylink that operates in UK Bus and New York Splash Tours LLC that operates in North America.
The results of these joint ventures are shown separately in notes 2 c and 2 g. a Revenue Due to the nature of the Groups business, the origin and destination of revenue is the same in all cases.
As the Group sells bus and rail services to individuals, it has few customers that are individually major.
Its major customers are typically public bodies that subsidise or procure transport services such customers include local authorities, transport authorities and the UK Department for Transport.
No material part of each segments revenue shown below relates to transactions with other segments.
page 52 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 53 Note 2 Segmental information continued a Revenue continued 2007 2006 m m Continuing operations UK Bus excluding acquisition impact 608.0 551.1 UK Bus 2005 06 acquisitions 82.4 38.5 North America 242.7 247.6 Total bus continuing operations 933.1 837.2 UK Rail 571.5 506.7 Group revenue 1,504.6 1,343.9 b Operating profit 2007 2006 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year m m m m m m Continuing operations UK Bus excluding acquisition impact 82.5 28.9 111.4 65.0 Nil 65.0 UK Bus 2005 06 acquisitions 2.0 Nil 2.0 1.9 Nil 1.9 North America 18.1 Nil 18.1 16.9 Nil 16.9 Total bus continuing operations 102.6 28.9 131.5 80.0 Nil 80.0 UK Rail 58.8 Nil 58.8 58.9 Nil 58.9 Total continuing operations 161.4 28.9 190.3 138.9 Nil 138.9 Group overheads 11.1 Nil 11.1 10.0 Nil 10.0 Intangible asset amortisation Nil 9.6 9.6 Nil 7.4 7.4 Restructuring costs 3.2 Nil 3.2 1.5 Nil 1.5 Total operating profit of continuing Group companies 147.1 19.3 166.4 127.4 7.4 120.0 Share of joint ventures profit loss after finance income and taxation 14.2 0.3 14.5 5.6 13.1 7.5 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit loss after taxation 161.3 19.6 180.9 133.0 20.5 112.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 53 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 2 Segmental information continued c Joint ventures 2007 2006 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and Continuing and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year Virgin Rail Group UK Rail m m m m m m Operating profit 12.4 5.4 17.8 5.3 Nil 5.3 Finance income net 3.7 Nil 3.7 1.7 Nil 1.7 Taxation 2.6 Nil 2.6 1.5 Nil 1.5 13.5 5.4 18.9 5.5 Nil 5.5 Goodwill charge on investment in continuing joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 Nil 13.1 13.1 13.5 0.3 13.8 5.5 13.1 7.6 Citylink UK Bus Operating profit 1.3 Nil 1.3 0.1 Nil 0.1 Taxation 0.4 Nil 0.4 Nil Nil Nil 0.9 Nil 0.9 0.1 Nil 0.1 New York Splash Tours LLC North America Operating loss 0.2 Nil 0.2 Nil Nil Nil Share of joint ventures profit loss after finance income and taxation 14.2 0.3 14.5 5.6 13.1 7.5 Share of taxation on operating loss of New York Splash Tours is less than 0.1m.
Segment assets and liabilities are determined by identifying the assets and liabilities that relate to the business of each segment but excluding intraGroup balances, cash, borrowings, finance income costs and token provisions.
page 54 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 55 Note 2 Segmental information continued e Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment The capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment shown below is on an accruals basis, not on a cash basis, and includes expenditure on property, plant and equipment through business combinations.
2007 2006 m m UK Bus continuing 66.7 109.7 UK Bus discontinued 0.8 9.2 North America 22.2 26.3 UK Rail 2.8 1.9 New Zealand discontinued Nil 3.2 Other 0.1 Nil 92.6 150.3 Capital expenditure, excluding business combinations is analysed in section 3.8.
12 of the Operating and Financial Review.
f Capital expenditure on intangible assets The capital expenditure on intangible assets including goodwill shown below includes acquisitions through business combinations for the prior year ended 30 April 2006.
2007 2006 m m UK Bus excluding acquisition impact 1.3 Nil UK Bus 2005 06 acquisitions Nil 35.4 North America Nil 0.2 UK Rail 12.0 0.4 13.3 36.0 g Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The results of each segment are further analysed below: Year ended 30 April 2007 Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture EBITDA pre intangible Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and including joint Depreciation and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax venture interest expense items expenses items costs profit m m and tax m m m m m m UK Bus - excluding acquisition impact 121.1 Nil 121.1 38.6 82.5 1.1 28.9 0.4 109.9 UK Bus - 2005 06 acquisitions 7.9 Nil 7.9 5.9 2.0 5.3 Nil 0.6 3.9 North America 33.7 Nil 33.7 15.6 18.1 0.4 Nil Nil 17.7 UK Rail subsidiaries 66.9 Nil 66.9 8.1 58.8 2.8 Nil 2.2 53.8 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 12.4 1.1 13.5 Nil 13.5 5.1 5.4 Nil 13.8 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 1.3 0.4 0.9 Nil 0.9 Nil Nil Nil 0.9 N America joint venture Splash Tours 0.2 Nil 0.2 Nil 0.2 Nil Nil Nil 0.2 Group overheads 11.0 NIl 11.0 0.1 11.1 Nil Nil Nil 11.1 Restructuring costs 3.2 Nil 3.2 Nil 3.2 Nil Nil 3.2 Nil 228.9 0.7 229.6 68.3 161.3 14.7 34.3 Nil 180.9 Year ended 30 April 2006 Operating profit EBITDA Joint venture EBITDA pre intangible Intangible Allocation pre-exceptional interest and including joint Depreciation and exceptional asset Exceptional of restructuring Operating items tax venture interest expense items expenses items costs profit m m and tax m m m m m m UK Bus - excluding acquisition impact 101.7 Nil 101.7 36.7 65.0 1.2 Nil 0.2 63.6 UK Bus - 2005 06 acquisitions 0.5 Nil 0.5 2.4 1.9 2.4 Nil 0.8 5.1 North America 32.9 Nil 32.9 16.0 16.9 0.8 Nil Nil 16.1 UK Rail subsidiaries 64.7 Nil 64.7 5.8 58.9 3.0 Nil 0.4 55.5 UK Rail joint venture Virgin Rail Group 5.3 0.2 5.5 Nil 5.5 13.1 Nil Nil 7.6 UK Bus joint venture Citylink 0.1 Nil 0.1 Nil 0.1 Nil Nil Nil 0.1 Group overheads 9.9 Nil 9.9 0.1 10.0 Nil Nil 0.1 10.1 Restructuring costs 1.5 Nil 1.5 Nil 1.5 Nil Nil 1.5 Nil 193.8 0.2 194.0 61.0 133.0 20.5 Nil Nil 112.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 55 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 3 Operating costs 2007 2006 m m Materials and consumables 174.6 148.7 Staff costs excluding past service pension adjustment note 7 672.4 631.5 Past service pension adjustment 28.9 Nil Depreciation on property, plant and equipment owned assets 54.0 52.7 leased assets under hire purchase agreements and finance leases 14.3 8.3 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.2 1.8 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 25.3 17.0 Amortisation of intangible assets customer contracts 5.2 2.4 non-compete contracts 1.4 2.0 rail franchise 2.7 2.9 software costs 0.3 0.1 Network Rail charges 181.7 147.2 Operating lease rentals payable Plant and equipment 106.5 108.8 Property 5.2 5.2 Other external charges 332.3 299.5 Impairment of available for sale investment 1.3 Nil Restructuring costs 3.2 1.5 Total operating costs continuing operations 1,551.7 1,429.6 Amounts payable to  LLP and their associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and nonaudit services are shown below: 2007 2006 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys accounts 20.0 20.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services to the Group the audit of Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 625.0 660.0 Total audit fees 645.0 680.0 Audit related regulatory reporting 30.0 2.5 Other assurance services 34.6 87.9 Tax advisory services 28.7 17.0 Provision of training and related materials including related to IFRS 0.8 18.0 Advice re return of value and related matters 230.0 Nil Other non-audit fees 294.1 122.9 Total fees payable by the Group to its auditors 969.1 805.4 Fees received by the Companys auditors from the Companys associated pension schemes 34.4 64.1 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 30, and includes an explanation of how auditor and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors In addition to the above charges included within profit before taxation for continuing businesses, 8.7m 2006: 27.5m was incurred in relation to materials and consumables, 52.5m 2006: 168.6m was incurred for staff costs, 2.2m 2006: 6.5m was incurred for depreciation on owned property, plant and equipment, 0.3m 2006: 4.2m was incurred for depreciation on leased assets under hire purchase agreements and finance leases, Nil 2006: 0.1m was recognised in relation to losses on disposal of plant and equipment, 0.4m 2006: 4.1m was incurred in relation to repairs and maintenance, 2.5m 2006: 8.3m was incurred for plant and equipment operating lease rental payments, 0.2m 2006: 0.8m was incurred for property operating lease rental payments and 5.2m 2006: 18.0m was incurred in relation to external charges in relation to our disposed London bus and New Zealand businesses.
page 56 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 57 Note 4 Exceptional items and intangible asset expenses There is no explicit definition of exceptional items in IFRS.
For this purpose exceptional items are items which individually, or if of a similar type, in aggregate, need to be disclosed, by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to allow a proper understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Where applicable, the Group intends to continue to highlight amounts before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items as well as clearly reporting the results in accordance with IFRS.
The items shown in the column headed Intangibles and exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2007 can be further analysed as follows 2007 Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and items asset expenses exceptional items m m m Operating costs Past service adjustment pension scheme note 27 28.9 Nil 28.9 Amortisation of intangible assets Nil 9.6 9.6 Sub-total 28.9 9.6 19.3 Share of profit of joint ventures Gain on sale of VRGs investment in Trainline 5.4 Nil 5.4 Goodwill charge on investment in joint ventures Nil 5.1 5.1 5.4 5.1 0.3 Gain on sale of properties 3.6 Nil 3.6 Loss in respect of other disposed and closed operations 1.1 Nil 1.1 Profit for the period from discontinued operations Gain on sale of London bus business note 18 132.2 Nil 132.2 Gain on sale of New Zealand operations note 18 0.6 Nil 0.6 132.8 Nil 132.8 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 169.6 14.7 154.9 Tax effect 8.7 2.9 5.8 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taxation 160.9 11.8 149.1 The items shown in the column headed Intangibles and exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement for the prior year comparatives can be further analysed as follows: 2006 Exceptional Intangible Intangibles and items asset expenses exceptional items m m m Operating costs Amortisation of intangible assets Nil 7.4 7.4 Share of profit of joint ventures Goodwill charged on investment in joint ventures Nil 13.1 13.1 Gain on sale of properties 0.8 Nil 0.8 Loss in respect of other disposed and closed operations 5.9 Nil 5.9 Profit for the period from discontinued operations Gain on sale of New Zealand operations note 18 22.5 Nil 22.5 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 17.4 20.5 3.1 Tax effect 2.8 2.2 5.0 Intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taxation 20.2 18.3 1.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 57 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 58 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 5 Other operating income 2007 2006 m m Miscellaneous revenue 50.3 49.8 Rail liquidated damages Nil 0.7 Rail franchise support, excluding incentive payments 130.9 111.1 Rail incentive payments 32.3 44.1 213.5 205.7 In addition to the above other operating income for continuing businesses, 1.1m 2006: 5.2m was recognised in relation to miscellaneous revenue of our disposed London bus and New Zealand businesses.
Miscellaneous revenue comprises revenue incidental to the Groups principal activity.
It includes advertising income, maintenance income and property income.
Rail liquidated damages of Nil 2006: 0.7m relates to amounts received by South West Trains for the late delivery and reliability of trains.
Rail franchise support is the gross amount of financial support receivable in respect of rail franchises from the Department for Transport DfT.
Partly offsetting this, the UK Rail division recognised amounts payable to the DfT under revenue and profit share agreements totalling 74.0m 2006: 66.7m, which are included in operating costs.
Rail incentive payments comprise receipts from payments to the DfT in respect of the operational performance of our rail companies measured against benchmarks set by the DfT.
Payments are made to the DfT when performance is worse than the target benchmarks and conversely payments are received from the DfT when performance is better than the benchmarks.
Note 6 Finance income and costs 2007 2006 m m Finance costs: Bank loans, overdraft interest payable and other facility costs 2.4 3.6 Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 4.4 2.5 Interest payable on bonds and notes 11.0 14.2 B share dividends Nil 0.2 Unwinding of discount on provisions 2.9 3.1 20.7 23.6 Finance income: Interest receivable 21.3 7.4 Fair value gains on financial instruments not qualifying as hedges interest rate swaps 0.1 0.2 foreign exchange forward contracts Nil 0.1 21.4 7.7 Net finance income costs 0.7 15.9 In addition to the above net finance income for continuing businesses, 0.6m 2006: Nil of net finance income was recognised in relation to our disposed London bus and New Zealand businesses, included within discontinued operations.
page 58 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 59 Note 7 Staff costs 2007 2006 m m Staff costs Wages and salaries 600.6 556.2 Social security costs 50.3 46.4 Pension costs defined contribution plans 0.4 1.0 Pension costs defined benefit plans current service cost 32.3 34.5 interest cost 60.5 45.6 expected return on assets 74.8 52.1 unwinding of franchise adjustment 0.3 1.9 Share based payment costs Equity-settled 2.0 1.8 Cash-settled 1.4 Nil Staff costs, excluding past service pension adjustment 672.4 631.5 Past service pension adjustment note 27 28.9 Nil 643.5 631.5 2007 2006 m m Summary of directors remuneration Aggregate emoluments 1.9 2.2 Gains made by directors on exercise of share options Nil 2.0 1.9 4.2 In addition to the above staff costs, 44.6m 2006: 148.5m of wages and salaries, 4.3m 2006: 13.4m of social security costs, 3.6m 2006: 6.3m of pension costs and Nil 2006: 0.4m of share based payment costs were incurred in relation to our disposed London bus and New Zealand businesses.
Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors and further information on their remuneration, share options, incentive schemes and pensions is contained within the audited sections of the Directors remuneration report.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors but excluding staff from discontinued operations was as follows: 2007 2006 number number UK operations 20,513 20,326 UK administration and supervisory 1,899 2,080 Overseas 4,834 4,649 27,246 27,055 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year split by segment was as follows: 2007 2006 number number UK Bus 18,091 17,751 North America 4,834 4,649 UK Rail 4,184 4,528 Central 137 127 27,246 27,055 In addition to the above employees, the average monthly number of persons employed by discontinued operations during the year was 4,255 2006: 6,242.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 59 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 60 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 8 Taxation a Analysis of charge in the year 2007 2006 Performance Performance pre intangibles Intangibles and pre intangibles Intangibles and and exceptional Results for and exceptional Results for exceptional items items the year exceptional items items the year Notes m m m m m m Current tax: UK corporation tax at 30% 2006: 30% 21.2 0.6 20.6 13.9 Nil 13.9 Prior year over under provision for corporation tax 0.9 Nil 0.9 1.4 Nil 1.4 Foreign tax current year 1.2 Nil 1.2 Nil Nil Nil Foreign tax adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 Nil 0.6 2.4 Nil 2.4 Total current tax 20.9 0.6 20.3 17.7 Nil 17.7 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of timing differences 17.0 6.4 23.4 7.8 5.0 2.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 Nil 0.1 0.2 Nil 0.2 Total deferred tax 16.9 6.4 23.3 7.6 5.0 2.6 Tax on profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations 37.8 5.8 43.6 25.3 5.0 20.3 In addition to the above tax charge for continuing businesses, 1.8m 2006: 7.4m of tax charges were recognised in relation to our disposed London bus and New Zealand businesses.
b Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2007 2006 m m Profit before taxation 184.1 91.5 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2006: 30% 55.2 27.4 Effects of: Intangible asset allowances deductions 2.8 3.9 Non-deductible expenditure 7.0 6.9 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised as deferred tax assets 14.6 19.2 Foreign taxes differences 0.7 0.6 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 1.6 3.6 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 5.9 1.7 Total taxation note 8a 43.6 20.3 c Factors that may affect future tax charges There are no temporary differences associated with investments in overseas subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised.
Gross deductible temporary differences of 244.0m 2006: 306.0m have not been recognised due to restrictions in the availability of their use.
Temporary differences have not been recognised in respect of the revaluation of land and buildings see Note 13 due to the availability of capital losses.
Temporary differences have also not been recognised in respect of rolled over capital gains due to the existence of capital losses.
In the 2007 budget the UK government announced its intention to propose Parliament to reduce the UK Corporate Income tax rate from 30% to 28%.
As of 30 April 2007, the tax change was not substantively enacted.
Had the change of rate been substantively enacted as of the balance sheet date the estimated impact on the balance sheet would be a reduction in the deferred tax liability of 2.9m.
In the 2007 budget the UK government also announced its intention to propose Parliament to abolish Industrial Buildings Allowances IBAs.
As of 30 April 2007, this change was not substantively enacted.
Had the change been substantively enacted as of the balance sheet date the estimated impact on the balance sheet would be an increase in the deferred tax liability of 10.0m.
page 60 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 61 Note 8 Taxation continued d Tax on items charged credited to equity 2007 2006 m m Tax on foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.3 0.2 Tax effect of actuarial gains on Group defined benefit pensions schemes 20.3 4.2 Tax effect of share of actuarial gains on joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes 1.5 1.5 Tax effect of share based payments 3.8 2.9 Total tax on items charged to equity 18.3 3.0 Tax recognised on the adoption of IAS 39 n a 0.5 Note 9 Dividends 2007 2006 m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.3p per share for the year ended 30 April 2005 Nil 24.6 Interim dividend paid of 1.1p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 Nil 12.0 Final dividend paid of 2.6p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 28.4 Nil Interim dividend paid of 1.2p per share for the year ended 30 April 2007 13.1 Nil Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year 41.5 36.6 Dividends proposed but neither paid nor included as liabilities in the financial statements Dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend paid of 2.6p per share for the year ended 30 April 2006 Nil 28.4 Final dividend proposed of 2.9p per share for the year ended 30 April 2007 20.4 Nil 20.4 28.4 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 April 2007 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in the financial statements.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable on 3 October 2007 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 31 August 2007.
Note 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding any ordinary shares held by employee share ownership trusts that do not rank for dividend.
The diluted earnings per share was calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares in relation to share options and long-term incentive plans.
In respect of share options, a calculation was done to determine the number of ordinary shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined based on the average annual market share price of the Companys ordinary shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of ordinary shares calculated as above is compared with the number of ordinary shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
The difference is added to the denominator as an issue of ordinary shares for no consideration and no adjustment is made to earnings numerator.
2007 2006 Basic weighted average ordinary share capital number of shares, million 1,091.7 1,075.8 Dilutive ordinary shares Executive Share Option Scheme 7.4 14.7 Employee SAYE Scheme 2.2 0.8 Long Term Incentive Plan 2.3 Nil Executive Participation Plan 1.0 Nil Diluted weighted average ordinary share capital number of shares, million 1,104.6 1,091.3 Stagecoach Group plc | page 61 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 10 Earnings per share continued 2007 2006 m m Profit after taxation for basic EPS calculation 277.3 115.4 Intangible asset expenses see note 4 14.7 20.5 Exceptional items see note 4 169.6 17.4 Tax effect of intangible asset expenses and exceptional items see note 4 5.8 5.0 Profit for adjusted EPS calculation 128.2 113.5 2007 2006 Earnings per Earnings per share share pence pence Basic 25.4 10.7 Adjusted basic 11.7 10.6 Diluted 25.1 10.6 Adjusted diluted 11.6 10.4 Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items is calculated after adding back intangible asset expenses and exceptional items after taking account of taxation, as shown on the consolidated income statement on page 40.
This has been presented to allow shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance.
For every 14 Ordinary shares in issue at 5.30 pm on 11 May 2007, 9 new ordinary shares were issued.
Accordingly, the total number of shares in issue were decreased by a proportionate amount.
Further details of the return of value are provided in note 36 and in section 3.8.
13 of the Operating and Financial Review.
The following executive share options had the potential as at 30 April 2006 to dilute basic earnings per share in the future, but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2006.
Award date Outstanding as at 30 April 2006 Outstanding as at 30 April 2007 Exercise price Expiry date 19 July 1999 407,657 Nil 2.0310 19 July 2006 Further details of executive share options are provided in note 30.
Other than the Return of Value referred to above, there have been no ordinary share transactions between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of this report that would have significantly changed the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 30 April 2007. page 62 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 63 Note 11 Goodwill 2007 2006 m m Cost At beginning of year 100.1 93.6 Acquired through business combinations Nil 20.7 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings Nil 19.0 Translation adjustment 7.3 4.8 At end of year 92.8 100.1 Accumulated impairment losses At beginning and end of year Nil Nil Net book value at beginning of year 100.1 93.6 Net book value at end of year 92.8 100.1 There were no additions to goodwill in the year ended 30 April 2007.
Goodwill in the balance sheet arose from the acquisition of businesses in prior years.
In accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, the Group tests the following assets for impairment annually: Goodwill acquired in a business combination: Intangible assets other than goodwill with indefinite useful lives, although there are no such assets at the balance sheet date: Intangible assets not yet available for use, although there are no such assets at the balance sheet date: Other assets where there is any indication that the relevant asset may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, all goodwill that has been acquired in business combinations has been allocated to two individual cash generating units on the basis of the Groups operations.
Each cash generating unit is an operational division.
The UK Bus cash generating unit operates coach and bus operations in the United Kingdom.
The North America Bus cash generating unit operates coach and bus operations in the US and Canada.
No goodwill has been allocated to the Groups rail operations.
The cash generating units are as follows: UK Bus North America Bus 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Carrying amount of goodwill 20.8 20.8 72.0 79.3 Carrying value of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Nil Nil Nil Nil Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined Value in use Value in use Value in use Value in use Period covered by approved management plans used in value in use calculation 5 years 5 years 5 years 5 years Pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections 10.7% 10.7% 9.0% 9.0% Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond period of management plan 2.2% 2.2% 2.7% 2.7% Difference between above growth rate and long-term average growth rate for market in which unit operates Nil Nil Nil Nil The calculation of value in use for each cash generating unit is most sensitive to the assumptions on gross margin, discount rates and growth rates.
The assumptions used are considered to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash generating unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
The Directors believe that in the case of each of the cash generating units shown above, any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount of the unit is based would not cause its carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 63 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 12 Other intangible assets Year ended 30 April 2007 Customer Non-compete Rail Software contracts contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 14.7 7.0 8.1 0.7 30.5 Additions Nil 1.2 12.0 0.1 13.3 Translation adjustment Nil 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 At end of year 14.7 8.0 20.1 0.8 43.6 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 2.4 4.8 5.8 0.2 13.2 Amortisation 5.2 1.4 2.7 0.3 9.6 Translation adjustment Nil 0.1 Nil Nil 0.1 At end of year 7.6 6.1 8.5 0.5 22.7 Net book value at beginning of year 12.3 2.2 2.3 0.5 17.3 Net book value at end of year 7.1 1.9 11.6 0.3 20.9 Intangible assets include customer contracts purchased as part of the Groups business combinations, non-compete contracts, the right to operate UK Rail franchises and software costs.
The amortisation of each of the above intangible assets is included within the operating costs line of the income statement.
Intangible assets arising during the year including any acquired through business combinations and the amortisation periods are as follows: Amortisation Intangible period additions years m Subsidiaries UK Bus additions 2-5 1.3 Subsidiaries UK Rail additions 10 12.0 13.3 Year ended 30 April 2006 Customer Non-compete Rail Software contracts contracts franchises costs Total m m m m m Cost At beginning of year Nil 6.6 8.1 0.3 15.0 Acquired through business combinations 14.7 Nil Nil Nil 14.7 Additions Nil 0.2 Nil 0.4 0.6 Translation adjustment Nil 0.2 Nil Nil 0.2 At end of year 14.7 7.0 8.1 0.7 30.5 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year Nil 2.8 2.9 0.1 5.8 Amortisation for year 2.4 2.0 2.9 0.1 7.4 At end of year 2.4 4.8 5.8 0.2 13.2 Net book value at beginning of year Nil 3.8 5.2 0.2 9.2 Net book value at end of year 12.3 2.2 2.3 0.5 17.3 page 64 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 65 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment Year ended 30 April 2007 Land and PSVs and buildings other assets Total m m m Cost At beginning of year 213.6 1,019.5 1,233.1 Additions 5.9 86.7 92.6 Disposals 1.7 51.8 53.5 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 38.9 115.6 154.5 Translation adjustment 2.4 21.0 23.4 Reclassifications 0.3 0.3 Nil At end of year 176.8 917.5 1,094.3 Depreciation At beginning of year 6.8 517.5 524.3 Charge for year 6.1 64.7 70.8 Disposals 0.3 46.4 46.7 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 0.7 41.6 42.3 Translation adjustment 0.7 10.3 11.0 Reclassifications 0.1 0.1 Nil At end of year 11.3 483.8 495.1 Net book value at beginning of year 206.8 502.0 708.8 Net book value at end of year 165.5 433.7 599.2 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 99.8 99.8 Leased PSV assets Nil 46.5 46.5 Short leasehold land and buildings 4.2 Nil 4.2 Long leasehold land and buildings 23.5 Nil 23.5 Heritable and freehold land amounting to 84.4m 2006: 109.3m has not been depreciated.
Depreciation of 14.6m 2006: 12.5m has been charged in the year in respect of assets held under hire purchase or finance lease agreements, 14.3m 2006: 8.3m of which related to continuing operations and 0.3m 2006: 4.2m of which related to discontinued operations.
Land and PSVs and Year ended 30 April 2006 buildings other assets Total m m m Cost At beginning of year 200.4 1,005.4 1,205.8 Additions 6.8 97.0 103.8 Acquired through business combinations 17.1 29.4 46.5 Disposals 5.0 30.9 35.9 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 7.9 101.8 109.7 Translation adjustment 2.2 20.4 22.6 At end of year 213.6 1,019.5 1,233.1 Depreciation At beginning of year 3.4 508.2 511.6 Charge for year 4.7 67.0 71.7 Disposals 0.9 23.7 24.6 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 1.1 43.1 44.2 Translation adjustment 0.7 9.1 9.8 At end of year 6.8 517.5 524.3 Net book value at beginning of year 197.0 497.2 694.2 Net book value at end of year 206.8 502.0 708.8 Included in the above net book value at end of year are: Assets on hire purchase Nil 95.3 95.3 Leased PSV assets Nil 45.1 45.1 Short leasehold land and buildings 2.4 Nil 2.4 Long leasehold land and buildings 29.4 Nil 29.4 IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, requires the initial measurement of property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The exemption in IFRS 1 allow entities to use a value that is not depreciated cost as deemed cost on transition to IFRS.
One of the options is to use fair value of the item at the date of transition to IFRS and allocate this as deemed cost.
Certain of our UK Bus divisions land and buildings have been valued at the date of transition to IFRS, being 1 May 2004, on the basis of existing use value by independent qualified valuers.
This resulted in an increase of 53.9m to the carrying value of those land and buildings at 1 May 2004.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 65 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 14 Interests in joint ventures The principal joint ventures are: Nominal Value Number of of share capital Country of shares in issue in issue at % interest Incorporation at 30 April 2007 30 April 2007 held Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited United Kingdom 34,780 3,478 49% Scottish Citylink Limited United Kingdom 1,643,312 1,643,312 35% New York Splash Tours LLC USA n a n a 50% The Group has three joint ventures: Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited VRG, Scottish Citylink Limited Citylink and New York Splash Tours LLC.
Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited is the holding company of Virgin Rail Group Limited, which in turn is the holding company of CrossCountry Trains Limited and West Coast Trains Limited.
The Virgin Rail Group Holdings shareholders agreement provides for joint decision making on key matters and equal representation on the Board.
As a consequence, the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
As part of the original acquisition, the Group acquired a 20m shareholder loan to Virgin Rail Group Limited, now a subsidiary of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
The shareholder loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 10% per annum.
10m of the original 20m loan was repaid on 28 April 2000, 3.3m was repaid on 23 September 2004, 3.4m was repaid on 27 September 2004 and the remaining 3.3m was repaid on 12 October 2006.
The Directors undertook an impairment review as at 30 April 2007 of the carrying value of the Groups 49% joint venture interest in VRG and concluded that there had been no impairment loss.
The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections for the impairment review was 10.7% and the cash flows were based on the business plans for both of VRGs West Coast and CrossCountry franchises, which cover the period until the end of each franchise.
Stagecoach acquired 35% of the share capital of Citylink on 12 September 2005 in return for transferring certain rights to the Motorvator and megabus.
The Citylink shareholder agreement provides for joint and unanimous decision making on all key matters and therefore the investment has been accounted for as a joint venture.
In North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, New York Splash Tours LLC, with Port Imperial Duck Charters, LLC.
New York Splash Tours LLC currently has no share capital but is governed by a joint venture agreement.
The Groups share of loss to date is disclosed in the income statement within share of profits and loss of joint ventures and its share of net liabilities of 0.2m 2006: Nil is disclosed within note 23.
As at the balance sheet date these liabilities represented pre-trading expenses incurred of 0.2m for which the Group is liable.
Total Total VRG Citylink 2007 2006 m m m m Cost At beginning of year 76.6 3.2 79.8 70.8 1 May 2005 IAS 32 39 adjustments Nil Nil Nil 3.3 At beginning of year, restated 76.6 3.2 79.8 67.5 Additions Nil Nil Nil 3.1 Share of recognised profits 18.9 0.9 19.8 5.6 Share of actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 3.5 Nil 3.5 3.7 Dividends received 31.1 Nil 31.1 Nil Rounding Nil Nil Nil 0.1 At end of year 67.9 4.1 72.0 79.8 Amounts written off At beginning of year 27.8 Nil 27.8 14.7 Goodwill charged during year 5.1 Nil 5.1 13.1 At end of year 32.9 Nil 32.9 27.8 Net book value at beginning of year 48.8 3.2 52.0 56.1 Net book value at beginning of year, restated 48.8 3.2 52.0 52.8 Net book value at end of year 35.0 4.1 39.1 52.0 In addition to the above interest in joint ventures, a loan receivable from New York Splash Tours LLC of 1.9m is reflected in note 21 to the financial statements and the Groups share of this joint ventures liabilities is disclosed in note 23. page 66 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 67 Note 14 Interests in joint ventures continued The Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures is analysed below: Total Total VRG Citylink 2007 2006 m m m m Non-current assets 20.9 0.2 21.1 25.2 Current assets 117.9 2.8 120.7 142.1 Non-current liabilities Nil Nil Nil 11.1 Current liabilities 128.4 1.5 129.9 136.5 Share of net assets 10.4 1.5 11.9 19.7 Goodwill 24.6 2.6 27.2 32.3 35.0 4.1 39.1 52.0 On transition to IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 May 2005, the shareholder loan notes of 3.3m receivable from VRG were reclassified as financial assets and therefore as at 30 April 2006 were included within the current trade and other receivables line on the balance sheet.
These loan notes were subsequently repaid during the year ended 30 April 2007.
The Groups share of the net liabilities of New York Splash Tours LLC is disclosed in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
A long-term loan receivable from New York Splash Tours LLC is disclosed in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups share of post-tax results from joint ventures is analysed below: New York Splash Total Total VRG Citylink Tours LLC 2007 2006 m m m m m Revenue 412.5 8.5 Nil 421.0 361.2 Expenses 394.7 7.2 0.2 402.1 355.8 Operating profit loss 17.8 1.3 0.2 18.9 5.4 Finance income net 3.7 Nil Nil 3.7 1.7 Taxation 2.6 0.4 Nil 3.0 1.5 Share of joint ventures profit loss after taxation 18.9 0.9 0.2 19.6 5.6 A net actuarial gain after tax of 3.5m 2006: 3.7m was recognised in addition to the above in relation to VRGs defined benefit pension schemes.
Note 15 Interest in associate 2007 2006 m m Cost and net book value At the beginning of year 1.0 1.0 Reclassification from liabilities 1.0 Nil At end of year Nil 1.0 During the year ended 30 April 2007, the Groups principal associated undertaking ceased trading.
The Group now carries its interest in the associated undertaking at nil value.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 67 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 15 Interest in associate continued The principal associate is: Nominal Value Number of of share capital Country of shares in issue in issue at % interest Incorporation at 30 April 2007 30 April 2007 held Prepayment Cards Limited United Kingdom 340,000 340,000 23.5% The Groups share of the net assets of its associate is analysed below: 2007 2006 m m Non-current assets Nil 4.0 Current assets Nil 0.4 Non-current liabilities Nil 0.5 Current liabilities Nil 4.5 Share of net liabilities Nil 0.6 Goodwill Nil 1.6 Nil 1.0 The Groups share of post-tax results from its associate is analysed below: 2007 2006 m m Revenue 0.1 0.2 Expenses 0.1 0.2 Share of loss from interest in associate Nil Nil The finance costs and taxation of the associate were less than 0.1m for each year presented.
Note 16 Available for sale and other investments 2007 2006 m m Cost Valuation At the beginning of year 4.5 2.1 Additions 0.4 2.8 Acquired through business combinations Nil 0.2 Net fair value losses gains 1.9 1.9 Disposals 0.2 Nil Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings Nil 2.6 Translation adjustment 0.1 0.1 At end of year 2.7 4.5 Amounts written off At the beginning of year 0.3 0.3 Impairment charge for year 1.3 Nil At end of year 1.6 0.3 Net book value at beginning of year 4.2 1.8 Net book value at end of year 1.1 4.2 The fair value of the Groups investment in Oxonica plc was judged to be nil at 30 April 2007 2006: 3.2m.
Fair value gains of 1.9m previously taken to the available for sale reserve were reversed and are included in the above table in the net fair value losses line for the year ended 30 April 2007.
Movements in the available for sale reserve are shown in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
An impairment charge of 1.3m was reflected within operating costs in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 30 April 2007, see note 3. page 68 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 69 Note 17 Acquisitions During the prior year ended 30 April 2006 the Group acquired Traction Group Limited and Glenvale Transport Limited.
The results from these acquisitions have been disclosed separately within note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
No restatements have been made in the year ended 30 April 2007 to the consolidated carrying value of goodwill in respect of these acquisition.
The financial year ended 30 April 2007 is the first year in which a full twelve months of results have been disclosed for Traction Group Limited and Glenvale Transport Limited within the consolidated financial statements.
Note 18 Disposals The Group disposed of its London bus business during the year ended 30 April 2007.
The business was disposed of on 30 August 2006 to Macquarie Bank Limited.
The Group also disposed of its New Zealand operations on 29 November 2005 to Infratil Limited and therefore the year ended 30 April 2006 comparatives include the results of the New Zealand business as discontinued, in addition to the London bus business.
The results of the discontinued London bus and New Zealand operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: 2007 2006 London bus New Zealand Total London bus New Zealand Total m m m m m m Revenue 76.1 Nil 76.1 224.6 37.4 262.0 Operating costs 72.0 Nil 72.0 205.0 33.1 238.1 Other operating income 1.1 Nil 1.1 4.0 1.2 5.2 Operating profit 5.2 Nil 5.2 23.6 5.5 29.1 Finance income costs net 0.6 Nil 0.6 0.1 0.1 Nil Taxation 1.8 Nil 1.8 6.1 1.3 7.4 Profit for the year before gain on disposal 4.0 Nil 4.0 17.4 4.3 21.7 Gain on disposal 132.2 0.6 132.8 Nil 22.5 22.5 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 136.2 0.6 136.8 17.4 26.8 44.2 A gain of 132.2m arose on the disposal of the London bus operations, being the net proceeds from disposal less the carrying amount of the disposed business net assets at the date of disposal.
No tax arose as a result of this gain.
The gain of 0.6m relating to New Zealand for the year ended 30 April 2007 arises from the release of a liability that was previously recorded for amounts potentially owing to the disposed business, which is now no longer payable.
Businesses disposed of during the year ended 30 April 2007 resulted in 13.2m of cash outflows from operating activities that included 30.0m of one-off pension contributions, 0.8m of cash outflows from investment activities and 9.6m of cash outflows from financing activities.
In respect of the businesses disposed of, the consideration, net assets disposed and profit on disposal for the year ended 30 April 2007, were as follows: 2007 2006 London bus Other Total Total m m m m Net assets liabilities disposed and liabilities for future costs associated with the disposals 133.8 0.6 133.2 94.9 Foreign exchange recycled on disposal Nil Nil Nil 3.9 Profit on disposal 132.2 0.6 132.8 15.5 Net consideration 266.0 Nil 266.0 106.5 Consideration received in the year 267.8 Nil 267.8 109.6 Costs of disposal 1.8 Nil 1.8 3.1 Net consideration received in the year 266.0 Nil 266.0 106.5 Net cash disposed of 0.8 Nil 0.8 6.0 Net cash inflow: disposals in the year 265.2 Nil 265.2 100.5 Net cash inflow: deferred consideration in respect of businesses disposed of in prior years Nil 1.8 1.8 3.9 265.2 1.8 267.0 104.4 Foreign exchange recycled on disposal is shown within the 2006 comparative numbers within the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 69 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 19 Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings ordinary shares 100% owned except where shown as at 30 April 2007 were: Country of registration or Company incorporation Principal activity Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc Scotland Holding company SCOTO Limited England Holding company SCUSI Limited England Holding company Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited Scotland Holding company The Integrated Transport Company Limited Scotland Holding company Stagecoach South Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach North West Ltd England Bus and coach operator East Midland Motor Services Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach Scotland Ltd Scotland Bus and coach operator National Transport Tokens Ltd 99.9% England Transport tokens East Kent Road Car Company Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach West Ltd England Bus and coach operator PSV Claims Bureau Ltd England Claims handling Busways Travel Services Ltd England Bus and coach operator Cleveland Transit Ltd England Bus and coach operator Cambus Ltd England Bus and coach operator Greater Manchester Buses South Ltd England Bus and coach operator Stagecoach Services Limited England Provision of accounting and payroll services The Yorkshire Traction Group Ltd England Bus and coach operator South West Trains Ltd England Train operating company to February 2007 Stagecoach South Western Trains Ltd England Train operating company from February 2007 Gray Line New York Tours Inc United States Bus and coach operator Trentway-Wager Inc Canada Bus and coach operator All companies operate in the countries shown above and, except for Stagecoach Transport Holdings plc, are indirectly held.
The Group considers any subsidiary that has revenue greater than 25.0m per annum, profit before interest and taxation greater than 2.5m per annum, gross assets greater than 25.0m or gross liabilities greater than 25.0m to be a principal subsidiary.
These thresholds exclude any intercompany amounts and investments in subsidiaries.
A full list of the Companys subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return of the Company.
Note 20 Inventories 2007 2006 m m Parts and consumables 11.7 13.2 All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow moving and obsolete items.
Changes in the provision for slow moving and obsolete stock were as follows: 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 2.0 1.7 Charged to income 0.6 0.1 Amount released to income, not used 0.3 Nil Amount utilised 0.2 Nil Acquired through business combinations Nil 0.2 Translation 0.1 Nil At end of year 2.0 2.0 There was no material write down of inventories during the current or prior year.
page 70 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 71 Note 21 Trade and other receivables 2007 2006 m m Non-current: Other receivables 1.2 1.6 Loan to joint venture 1.9 Nil 3.1 1.6 Current: Trade receivables 83.1 82.6 Less: provision for impairment 3.7 2.8 Trade receivables net 79.4 79.8 Other receivables 8.2 15.6 Prepayments and accrued income 45.3 71.1 VAT and other government receivables 9.2 10.1 Loan to joint venture Nil 3.3 142.1 179.9 A loan of USD $3.8m was made to New York Splash Tours LLC during the year ended 30 April 2007.
The loan is interest bearing at 7% and is repayable by instalments after the joint venture commences trading.
The loan outstanding as at 30 April 2007, translated at year end rates was 1.9m and is included in non-current trade and other receivables.
Note 22 Cash and cash equivalents 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank and in hand 513.3 198.5 At 30 April 2007, the effective interest rate on cash at bank and in hand was 5.35% 2006: 4.6% and these were primarily overnight deposits having an average maturity of one day 2006: one day.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, the cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2007 2006 m m Cash and bank balances 513.3 198.5 Bank overdrafts note 24 0.8 0.2 512.5 198.3 Note 23 Trade and other payables 2007 2006 m m Current: Trade payables 99.5 104.4 Accruals and deferred income 231.3 216.7 Share of net liabilities of joint venture 0.2 Nil Deferred grant income 1.5 1.4 PAYE and NIC payable 15.3 18.8 347.8 341.3 Non-current: Deferred grant income 4.6 5.5 Other payables 4.5 3.7 9.1 9.2 Share of net liabilities of the New York Splash Tour joint venture represent the Groups share of costs of New York Splash Tours LLC in the year ended 30 April 2007 and this share of 0.2m included in current trade and other payables.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 71 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 24 Borrowings 2007 2006 m m Current: Bank overdrafts 0.8 0.2 Bank loans and loan notes 37.0 37.7 Hire purchase and lease obligations 33.1 28.4 70.9 66.3 Non-current: Bank loans and loan notes Nil 11.4 US Dollar 8.625% Notes 183.2 206.7 Hire purchase and lease obligations 89.2 73.1 272.4 291.2 Total borrowings 343.3 357.5 The minimum lease payments under hire purchase and lease obligations fall due as follows: 2007 2006 m m Not later than one year 38.4 31.7 Later than one year but not more than five years 74.7 70.8 More than five years 28.7 8.6 141.8 111.1 Future finance charges on hire purchase and finance leases 19.5 9.6 Present value of hire purchase and finance lease liabilities 122.3 101.5 The Group in its ordinary course of business enters into hire purchase and finance lease agreements to fund or refinance the purchase of vehicles.
All of the hire purchase and lease obligations shown above are in respect of vehicles.
The lease agreements are typically for periods of 5 to 10 years and do not have contingent rent or escalation clauses.
The agreements have industry standard terms and do not contain any restrictions on dividends, additional debt or further leasing.
a US Dollar 8.625% Notes On 9 November 1999, the Group issued US$500m of 8.625% Notes due in 2009.
Interest on the Notes is payable six monthly in arrears.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the Notes will be redeemed at their principal amount on 15 November 2009.
The cumulative par value of Notes repurchased was US$165.9m at 30 April 2007 2006: US$165.9m.
The Notes were issued at 99.852% of their principal amount.
The consolidated carrying value of the Notes at 30 April 2007 was 183.2m 2006: 206.7m, after taking account of the Notes purchased by the Group, the discount on issue, issue costs, accrued interest and the gain on close out of various interest rate swaps previously used to manage the interest rate profile of the Notes.
page 72 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 73 Note 24 Borrowings continued b Borrowings are repayable as follows: 2007 2006 m m On demand or within 1 year Bank overdraft 0.8 0.2 Bank loans and loan notes 37.0 37.7 Hire purchase and lease obligations 33.1 28.4 Within 1-2 years Bank loans and loan notes Nil 0.8 Hire purchase and lease obligations 23.5 25.2 Within 2-5 years Bank loans and loan notes Nil 10.6 US Dollar 8.625% Notes 183.2 206.7 Hire purchase and lease obligations 39.7 39.7 Over 5 years Hire purchase and lease obligations 26.0 8.2 Total borrowings 343.3 357.5 Less current maturities 70.9 66.3 Non-current portion of borrowings 272.4 291.2 Interest terms on UK facilities except loan notes are at annual rates between 0.25% and 0.65% over bank base rate or equivalent LIBOR rates.
Interest terms on overseas borrowings are at annual rates of 0.5% above applicable local market borrowing rates.
Interest on loan notes are at three months LIBOR or fixed interest.
Loan notes amounting to 37.0m 2006: 37.7m are backed by guarantees provided under Group banking facilities.
The loan notes have been classified by reference to the earliest date on which the loan note holders can request redemptions.
UK bank loans, overdrafts and US$ Notes are unsecured.
c Interest rate and currency profile of financial liabilities The interest rate and currency profile of the financial liabilities of the Group on which interest is paid at 30 April 2007 was as follows: Weighted average Weighted average period for which Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total fixed interest rate rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 151.7 Nil 151.7 n a n a US Dollar 0.8 186.5 187.3 6.4% 2.7 Canadian Dollar Nil 4.3 4.3 5.2% 3.7 Gross borrowings 152.5 190.8 343.3 6.4% 2.7 The figures shown in the above table take into account the close out of various interest rate swaps previously used to manage the interest rate profile of borrowings.
The fair value of fixed rate financial liabilities is 203.7m 2006: 221.9m.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from one to three months based on market rates.
The Groups policies on managing interest rate risk and currency risk are explained in note 28.
The interest rate profile and currency profile of the financial liabilities of the Group on which interest is paid at 30 April 2006 was as follows: Weighted average Weighted average period for which Currency Floating rate Fixed rate Total fixed interest rate rate is fixed m m m % Years Sterling 139.2 Nil 139.2 n a n a US Dollar Nil 206.7 206.7 6.7% 3.5 Canadian Dollar 11.6 NIl 11.6 n a n a Gross borrowings 150.8 206.7 357.5 6.7% 3.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 73 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 24 Borrowings continued c Interest rate and currency profile of financial liabilities continued The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings was as follows: 2007 2006 m m Expiring within one year 70.9 66.3 Expiring in more than one year but less than two years 23.5 26.0 Expiring in more than two years but less than five years 222.9 257.0 Expiring beyond five years 26.0 8.2 Gross borrowings 343.3 357.5 d Interest rate and currency profile of financial assets The Groups financial assets on which floating interest is receivable comprise cash deposits and cash in hand of 513.3m 2006: 198.5m.
The cash deposits comprise deposits placed on money market at call, seven day, monthly rates and cash deposited with counterparty banks at commercially negotiated interest rates.
The currency analysis is as follows: Floating rate 2007 2006 m m Currency Sterling 494.0 186.8 US Dollar 18.8 11.7 Other 0.5 Nil Cash at bank and in hand 513.3 198.5 Financial assets on which no interest is receivable total 1.1m 2006: 4.2m and comprise other investments of 1.1m 2006: 4.2m.
These are denominated in Sterling 0.4m 2006: 3.9m, and US dollars 0.7m 2006: 0.3m.
Net financial assets amounts due after one year from the balance sheet date on which fixed interest is receivable total 2.2m 2006: 0.9m and comprise US$ denominated loan notes receivable and a loan to a joint venture.
The net amount of 2.2m 2006: 0.9m includes a provision for impairment of Nil 2006: 1.3m.
The net financial assets have a weighted average interest rate of 7.3% 2006: 8.9% and an average maturity of 3.2 years 2006: 2.8 years.
Trade and other receivables on which no interest has been received are excluded from the disclosures above.
e Currency exposures The Groups objective in managing currency borrowings and net exposures arising from its investments in net assets of overseas subsidiaries is to maintain an appropriate cost of borrowing and to retain some potential for currency related appreciation whilst partially hedging against currency depreciation.
Foreign currency borrowings are taken out to provide for or to hedge against foreign net investments.
Gains and losses arising from currency borrowings taken out to provide a hedge against foreign net investments are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The Group reviews and considers hedging of actual and forecast foreign exchange transactional exposures up to one year forward.
At 30 April 2007 and 30 April 2006 there were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures.
f Borrowing facilities The Group had the following undrawn committed banking and hire purchase facilities: 2007 2006 m m Expiring within one year 29.2 46.4 Expiring in more than one year but no more than two years Nil Nil Expiring beyond two years 748.4 302.8 777.6 349.2 page 74 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 75 Note 25 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Net The Group movement in deferred tax during the year was as follows: liabilities asset m m m Beginning of year 5.2 8.4 3.2 Provided during year: Charge to income statement 22.2 1.1 23.3 Sale closure of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses 1.3 Nil 1.3 Charge to equity 17.7 Nil 17.7 Foreign exchange 0.3 0.5 0.8 End of year 44.1 6.8 37.3 The deferred tax liabilities after more than one year are 44.1m 2006: 5.2m.
The deferred tax asset due after more than one year is 2.2m 2006: 3.0m.
The deferred tax asset of 6.8m 2006: 8.4m has been recognised in respect of tax losses.
Based on tax workings scheduling the reversal of the asset, it is expected to be utilised over the next three years 2006: three years.
2007 2006 Deferred taxation is calculated as follows: m m Accelerated capital allowances 75.4 90.4 Pension temporary differences 10.9 64.3 Short-term temporary differences 27.2 29.3 37.3 3.2 The amount of deferred tax recognised in the income statement by type of temporary difference is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Accelerated capital allowances 4.3 4.3 Pension temporary differences 17.5 2.0 Short-term temporary differences 1.5 3.5 23.3 2.8 Note 26 Provisions 2007 2006 m m Token redemption provision 19.4 20.9 Insurance provisions 85.4 83.2 Environmental provisions 2.7 3.1 Provision for onerous contracts 0.9 2.7 108.4 109.9 The token redemption provision relates to tokens issued to third parties to be redeemed as payment for transportation services.
The insurance provisions relate to insurance reserves on incurred accidents up to 30 April in each year where claims have not been settled.
These are based on actuarial reviews and prior claims history.
The environmental provisions relate to legal or constructive obligations to undertake environmental work, such as an obligation to rectify land which has been contaminated by fuel tanks or to eliminate the presence of asbestos.
The provision is based on the estimated cost of undertaking the work required.
Provisions for onerous contracts relate to contracts that have been acquired through business combinations that have been identified as loss making.
The Group movement during the year was as follows: Token redemption Insurance Environmental Provisions for provision provisions provisions onerous contracts Total m m m m m Beginning of year 20.9 83.2 3.1 2.7 109.9 Provided during year after discounting 7.6 51.4 0.8 Nil 59.8 Unwinding of discount Nil 2.9 Nil Nil 2.9 Change in discount rate Nil 0.6 Nil Nil 0.6 Utilised in the year Nil 48.7 1.1 1.8 51.6 Redemption of tokens 9.1 Nil Nil Nil 9.1 Translation differences Nil 2.8 0.1 Nil 2.9 End of year 19.4 85.4 2.7 0.9 108.4 30 April 2007: Current 12.4 34.9 2.7 0.7 50.7 Non-current 7.0 50.5 Nil 0.2 57.7 19.4 85.4 2.7 0.9 108.4 30 April 2006: Current 13.4 44.9 3.1 1.8 63.2 Non-current 7.5 38.3 Nil 0.9 46.7 20.9 83.2 3.1 2.7 109.9 Stagecoach Group plc | page 75 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
The principal defined benefit occupational schemes are as follows: The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme SGPS : The South West Trains section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : The Island Line section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS : A number of UK Local Government Pension Schemes LGPS : The Yorkshire Traction Company Limited Pension Plan YTC The Strathtay Scottish Omnibuses Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SSO.
These schemes are devised in accordance with local employment terms and conditions.
Each scheme is administered independently of the employers and the schemes assets are held in trusts that are managed by investment managers appointed by the schemes trustees.
Contributions to the schemes are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The Directors believe that separate consideration should be given to RPS as the Group has no rights or obligations in respect of sections of the scheme following expiry of the related franchises.
Therefore, the liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of RPS only represents that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer is obliged to fund or expected to recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
The restriction on the liabilities or assets to show the impact of this franchise adjustment is shown below.
The restriction on surplus to be recognised in the LGPS plans is based on the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
In addition, the Group contributes to a number of defined contribution schemes, covering UK and non-UK employees.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Funded plans Year ended 30 April 2007 SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m m m Equities 371.4 319.2 176.2 16.1 5.4 0.7 Nil 889.0 Bonds 69.9 53.8 41.4 18.9 0.7 0.8 Nil 185.5 Cash 65.5 1.2 17.2 9.8 Nil 0.3 Nil 94.0 Property 44.3 54.1 23.3 Nil Nil Nil Nil 121.7 Fair value of plan assets 551.1 428.3 258.1 44.8 6.1 1.8 Nil 1,290.2 Present value of funded unfunded obligations 578.4 423.5 254.9 53.1 9.0 2.6 3.5 1,325.0 Restriction on surplus to be recognised Nil Nil 1.4 Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.4 Net assets liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 27.3 4.8 1.8 8.3 2.9 0.8 3.5 36.2 Assets recognised in the balance sheet 4.8 11.8 16.6 Liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 27.3 10.0 8.3 2.9 0.8 3.5 52.8 Year ended 30 April 2006 Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m m m Equities 444.5 324.8 174.5 33.5 5.0 0.7 Nil 983.0 Bonds 54.2 20.9 39.2 7.3 0.5 0.9 Nil 123.0 Cash 40.5 19.7 18.5 0.1 Nil 0.4 Nil 79.2 Property 37.5 6.9 8.5 1.3 Nil Nil Nil 54.2 Fair value of plan assets 576.7 372.3 240.7 42.2 5.5 2.0 Nil 1,239.4 Present value of funded unfunded obligations excluding franchise adjustment 753.0 387.0 264.3 51.4 8.4 2.5 3.6 1,470.2 franchise adjustment Nil 8.6 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 8.6 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 176.3 6.1 23.6 9.2 2.9 0.5 3.6 222.2 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2007 2006 % % Equities 68.9 79.3 Bonds 14.4 9.9 Cash 7.3 6.4 Property 9.4 4.4 100.0 100.0 page 76 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 77 Note 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Total Year ended 30 April 2007 m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 16.4 14.2 3.4 1.3 0.5 0.3 36.1 Past service credit note 4 28.9 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 28.9 Interest cost 33.7 12.9 13.8 2.8 0.5 Nil 63.7 Expected return on plan assets 38.4 18.2 17.7 3.4 0.5 Nil 78.2 Unwinding of franchise adjustment Nil 0.3 Nil Nil Nil Nil 0.3 Total defined benefit credit costs 17.2 8.6 0.5 0.7 0.5 0.3 7.6 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 0.4 0.4 Total, included in staff costs for both continuing and discontinued operations 17.2 8.6 0.5 0.7 0.5 0.7 7.2 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2007 was 133.4m.
Analysis of pension costs included in the income statement between continuing and discontinued operations is set out in the table below: Continuing Discontinued Total Operations Operations m m m see Note 7 Staff costs Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 32.3 3.8 36.1 Interest cost 60.5 3.2 63.7 Expected return on plan assets 74.8 3.4 78.2 Unwinding of franchise adjustments 0.3 Nil 0.3 Defined contribution costs 0.4 Nil 0.4 Pension costs before exceptional past service cost 18.1 3.6 21.7 Discontinued operations relate to London Bus operations, disposed of in August 2006.
Year ended 30 April 2006 Funded plans SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Total m m m m m m m Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 21.5 16.9 3.3 0.6 0.2 Nil 42.5 Interest cost 32.2 11.4 13.0 0.9 0.1 0.1 57.7 Expected return on plan assets 36.8 13.5 14.5 1.0 0.1 Nil 65.9 Unwinding of franchise adjustment Nil 1.9 Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.9 Total defined benefit costs 16.9 12.9 1.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 32.4 Defined contribution costs Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 1.0 1.0 Total, included in staff costs for both continuing and discontinued operations 16.9 12.9 1.8 0.5 0.2 1.1 33.4 The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 30 April 2006 was 262.8m.
Analysis of pension costs included in the income statement between continuing and discontinued operations is set out in the table below: Continuing Discontinued Total Operations Operations m m m see Note 7 Staff Costs Defined benefit schemes: Current service cost 34.5 8.0 42.5 Interest cost 45.6 12.1 57.7 Expected return on plan assets 52.1 13.8 65.9 Unwinding of franchise adjustments 1.9 Nil 1.9 Defined contribution costs 1.0 Nil 1.0 Pension costs 27.1 6.3 33.4 Stagecoach Group plc | page 77 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued The movements in the net liability recognised in the balance sheet for the year ended 30 April 2007 were as follows: Funded plans Year ended 30 April 2007 SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m m m At beginning of year 176.3 6.1 23.6 9.2 2.9 0.5 3.6 222.2 Rail franchise changes Nil 11.7 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 11.7 Disposal settlement and curtailment 5.5 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 5.5 Total expense income 17.2 8.6 0.5 0.7 0.5 0.7 Nil 7.2 Actuarial losses gains 43.0 16.0 20.7 0.5 0.2 Nil Nil 79.4 One-off employers contributions 77.0 Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 77.0 Other employers contributions and settlements 17.3 15.2 4.2 2.1 0.3 0.4 0.1 39.6 At end of year liability asset 27.3 4.8 1.8 8.3 2.9 0.8 3.5 36.2 The movements in the net liability recognised in the balance sheet for the year ended 30 April 2006 were as follows: Funded plans Year ended 30 April 2006 SGPS RPS LGPS YTC SSO Other Unfunded Total plans m m m m m m m m At beginning of year 160.3 7.7 48.5 Nil Nil 0.7 3.7 220.9 Acquired as part of business combinations Nil Nil 2.5 14.9 4.1 Nil Nil 21.5 Total expense 16.9 12.9 1.8 0.5 0.2 1.1 Nil 33.4 Actuarial losses gains 19.2 0.6 25.2 5.6 1.2 0.5 Nil 13.9 Employers contributions and settlements 20.1 13.9 4.0 0.6 0.2 0.8 0.1 39.7 At end of year 176.3 6.1 23.6 9.2 2.9 0.5 3.6 222.2 The movements in the total present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 1,461.6 1,114.2 Current service cost 36.1 42.5 Part service credit 28.9 Nil Defined contribution costs 0.4 1.0 Interest cost 63.7 57.7 Unwinding of franchise adjustment 0.3 1.9 Members contributions paid 22.8 23.2 Actuarial gains and losses 25.6 183.0 Benefits paid 44.0 34.2 Rail franchise changes 417.8 Nil Acquired as part of business combination Nil 76.0 Disposal settlement and curtailment 578.4 Nil Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 At end of year 1,325.0 1,461.6 Movements in the total present value of fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 2007 2006 m m At beginning of year 1,239.4 893.3 Expected return on scheme assets 78.2 65.9 Actuarial gains and losses 55.2 196.9 One-off employers contributions 77.0 Nil Other employers contributions 39.6 39.7 Members contributions paid 22.8 23.2 Benefits paid 44.0 34.2 Rail franchise changes 406.1 Nil Acquired as part of business combination Nil 54.5 Disposal settlement and curtailment 583.9 Nil Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 At end of year total fair value of assets 1,290.2 1,239.4 Adjustment for unrecoverable surplus 1.4 Nil Value of assets recognised 1,288.8 1,239.4 page 78 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 79 Note 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 55.2 196.9 Experience adjustment, arising on scheme liabilities 18.1 92.7 Adjustment for unrecognised surplus 1.4 Nil Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the liabilities 43.7 90.3 Total actuarial gain recognised 79.4 13.9 The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities: Experience adjustments m 18.1 92.7 6.8 Scheme liabilities m 1,325.0 1,461.6 1,114.2 Percentage of scheme liabilities % 1.4% 6.3% 0.6% Experience adjustments on scheme assets: Experience adjustments m 55.2 196.9 10.5 Scheme assets m 1,290.2 1,239.4 893.3 Percentage of scheme assets % 4.3% 15.9% 1.2% The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid by the Group to the schemes during the financial year ending 30 April 2008 is 71.5m estimated at 30 April 2006 for year ended 30 April 2007: 40.2m.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Rate of increase in salaries SGPS 3.4 4.3 Rate of increase in salaries other defined benefit schemes 4.4 4.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment SGPS 2.8 2.7 other defined benefit schemes 2.9 2.8 Discount rate 5.5 5.3 Inflation 2.9 2.8 Expected long-term rates of return as at 30 April were: Equities 8.3 8.3 Bonds 5.3 5.0 Cash 5.3 4.5 Property 7.5 7.5 includes private equity The expected return on plan assets is based on expectations at the beginning of the period for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
The expected returns are set in conjunction with external advisors and take account of market factors, fund managers views and targets for future returns and where appropriate, historical returns.
The life expectancy assumptions used for each scheme are periodically reviewed.
Note 28 Derivative financial instruments and hedging a Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of changes in debt and equity market prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The Groups treasury management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk and interest rate movements.
The Group does not generally hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Treasury risk management: The main areas of financial risk associated with the Groups businesses are managed by a centralised Group Treasury function.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves the Groups treasury policy, which covers the management of these risks.
Financial instruments are held to finance Group operations, to manage the financial risk exposures and to achieve greater certainty of future costs.
Fuel hedging: The Groups UK and North American bus operations consume the equivalent of 1.6m barrels of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profits are exposed to the movement in the underlying price of crude oil, which is the major driver of diesel prices.
The Group manages the volatility in its fuel costs by maintaining an ongoing fuel-hedging programme whereby derivatives are used to fix or cap the variable unit cost of a percentage of anticipated fuel consumption.
If the Group had no hedging in place, a movement of US$10 in the price of a barrel of crude oil would affect the Groups fuel costs by approximately US$16m.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 79 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 28 Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued a Derivative financial instruments continued The Groups fuel hedging levels are summarised below: Financial year ended ending 30 April 2007 2008 2009 2010 Proportion of actual forecast fuel consumption hedged: Hedged by fuel swaps 20% 37% 0% 0% Hedged by fuel collars 76% 51% 44% 0% Crude equivalent fixed swap price per barrel $54 $59 n a n a Crude equivalent floor cap per barrel $86 $55 $59 $28 $89 $58 n a Average actual estimated forward price per barrel $65 $70 $70 $70 Currency rate risk: The Group is exposed to limited transactional currency risk due to the small number of foreign currency transactions entered into by subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency.
Forward buying of currencies is carried out by the Group Treasury function where appropriate.
Following the disposal of its New Zealand operations in November 2005, the Group now only has overseas investments in Canada and the USA.
To minimise balance sheet translation exposure, the Group hedges the sterling book value of overseas operations through borrowings denominated in their functional currency or, where necessary, through the use of derivative financial instruments which effectively convert sterling borrowings into borrowings of the functional currency, and through forward currency exchange contracts.
It is Group policy to examine each overseas investment individually and to adopt a strategy based on current and forecast political and economic climates.
The policy aims to allow the Group to maintain an appropriate cost of borrowing and retain some potential for currency appreciation whilst partially hedging against currency depreciation.
Credit risk: It is the Groups policy to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
To control credit risk, counterparty credit limits are set by reference to published credit ratings and the counterpartys geographical location.
The Group considers the risk of material loss in the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be low.
Interest rate risk management: To provide some certainty as to the level of interest cost, it is the Groups policy to manage interest rate exposure through the use of fixed and floating rate debt.
Derivative instruments are also used where appropriate to generate the desired interest rate profile.
At 30 April 2007, 70% 30 April 2006: 70% of the Groups gross borrowings were fixed or capped.
For the year to 30 April 2007, floating rate Sterling borrowings of 50.0m 2006: 50.0m were economically hedged with a cap rate at 8.5%.
The cap was not exercised during the year to 30 April 2007.
Whilst the cap is considered an economic hedge of interest rate risk it has not been designated as an accounting hedge due to its low market value and low volatility.
b Fair value of derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are classified on the balance sheet as at 30 April 2007 as set out below: 2007 2006 m m Current assets: Fuel derivatives 1.7 3.7 Current liabilities: Fuel derivatives 3.7 1.3 Interest rate cap Nil 0.2 Foreign exchange forward contracts Nil 0.1 3.7 1.6 Non-current liabilities: Fuel derivatives 2.6 1.2 The fair value of derivative financial instruments at 30 April 2007 is set out below: Fair value Notional amount Fair value Notional amount of derivative of fuel covered of derivative of fuel covered financial assets by derivative financial liabilities by derivative financial assets financial liabilities m m At 30 April 2007 Derivatives held as cash flow hedges Fuel derivatives 1.7 231m litres 6.3 249m litres page 80 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 81 Note 28 Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued b Fair value of derivative financial instruments continued The fair value of derivative financial instruments at 30 April 2006 is set out below: Fair value Notional amount Fair value Notional amount of derivative of fuel covered of derivative of fuel covered financial assets by derivative financial liabilities by derivative financial assets financial liabilities m m At 30 April 2006 Derivatives held as cash flow hedges Fuel derivatives 3.7 53m litres 2.5 478m litres 3.7 2.5 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate cap Nil 0.2 Foreign exchange forward contracts Nil 0.1 3.7 2.8 c Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, all significant contracts to which the Group is a party have been reviewed for embedded derivatives.
In the year ended 30 April 2006 one embedded derivative was identified that IAS 39 required to be separately accounted for, being a fuel swap embedded in a Sale and Purchase Agreement.
This embedded derivative had expired by 30 April 2006 and accordingly, no fair value was attributed to it at 30 April 2006.
There were no embedded derivatives as at 30 April 2007 which IAS 39 requires to be separately accounted for.
d Cash flow hedges The Group uses a number of fuel derivatives to hedge the different types of fuel used in each of its divisions.
Ultra low sulphur diesel used in the UK Bus division is hedged by derivatives priced from the same type of fuel.
Diesel used in the North American division is hedged by heating oil swaps that have been determined to be effective hedges of the diesel fuel used with a strong correlation in price movements between the heating oil and diesel products.
The fuel derivatives hedge the underlying commodity price risk denominated in US$ and in the case of the UK Bus division, they also hedge the currency risk due to the commodity being priced in US$ and the functional currency of the UK Bus division being pounds sterling.
The fuel derivatives include fixed price swaps and collars.
The collars are hedges against the price of fuel being above a certain capped level or below a certain floor level.
Collars have been used in preference to caps to reduce the overall cash cost of purchasing the cap protection.
The fair value of fuel derivatives as at 30 April 2007 was a net liability of 4.6m 2006: net asset of 1.2m, shown in note 28 b as an asset of 1.7m 2006: 3.7m and a liability of 6.3m 2006: 2.5m.
The movements in the fair value of fuel derivatives in the year ended 30 April 2007 were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Fuel derivatives Fair value as at 1 May 1.2 8.6 Fair value at acquisition of derivatives acquired through business combinations Nil 2.9 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 9.2 9.2 Changes in fair value during the year taken directly to income statement Nil 1.3 Cash paid received during the year 3.4 18.2 Fair value as at 30 April 2007 4.6 1.2 The fair value of the fuel derivatives as at 30 April 2007 split by maturity was as follows: Fair value of Fair value of assets liabilities m m At 30 April 2007 Within one year 1.7 3.7 1 to 2 years Nil 2.6 2 to 3 years Nil Nil 1.7 6.3 The fair value of the fuel derivatives as at 30 April 2006 split by maturity was as follows: Fair value of Fair value of assets liabilities m m At 30 April 2006 Within one year 3.7 1.3 1 to 2 years Nil 0.7 2 to 3 years Nil 0.5 3.7 2.5 Stagecoach Group plc | page 81 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 28 Financial instruments continued d Cash flow hedges continued The fair value of fuel derivatives is further analysed by currency and segment as follows 30 April 2007 30 April 2006 Fair value Notional amount Fair value Notional amount of fuel covered of fuel covered by derivatives by derivatives m million litres m million litres Sterling denominated UK Bus 4.5 357.0 0.9 402.0 US Dollar denominated North America 0.1 123.0 0.3 129.0 4.6 480.0 1.2 531.0 The fair value of the fuel derivatives shown at 30 April 2006 above does not correspond to the amount of the related cash flow hedging reserve at these dates.
The amounts differ for two reasons: 1 the ineffective portion of the hedging instruments is dealt with directly in the income statement and 2 the fair value at acquisition of cash flow hedging instruments acquired through business combinations is accounted for as part of the accounting for the business combination.
The movements in the cash flow hedging reserve all of which related to the above fuel derivatives in the year ended 30 April 2007 for the year were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Cash flow hedging reserve Fair value as at 1 May 0.8 7.3 Changes in fair value during the year taken to cash flow hedging reserve 9.2 9.2 Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in profit for the year 5.4 17.3 Cash flow hedging reserve as at 30 April 4.6 0.8 e Held for trading At 30 April 2007, the Group had no forward foreign exchange contracts 2006: US$20m.
At 30 April 2006, the Groups one contract covered the US$20m principal of the US$ notes that had not been designated as a hedge of net investments in foreign entities.
The movement in fair value of the forward contract offset movements in the US$ notes.
Hedge accounting was not sought due to the treatment of this derivative as a fair value hedge being the same as for the forward contract being classified as a derivative held for trading.
At 30 April 2007, the Group had a 50m 2006: 50m 8.5% interest rate cap which matures in October 2007 2006: October 2007.
Due to the small fair value of the derivative, no hedge effectiveness testing was performed and therefore, whilst considered to be an effective risk management derivative, it has been designated as a held for trading derivative.
There are no other derivative liabilities relating to foreign exchange risks.
f Hedge of overseas net investments At 30 April 2007, US$334.1m 2006: US$314.1m of the US$334.1m 2006: US$334.1m of US$ notes was designated as a hedge of net investments in foreign entities.
At 30 April 2006, US$20m of US$ notes were notionally matched against a forward foreign exchange contract maturing on 30 April 2007, as described in note 28 e above.
page 82 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 83 Note 29 Called up share capital 2007 2006 m m Authorised 1,456,666,666 2006: 1,456,666,666 ordinary shares of 12 19 pence each 9.2 9.2 2007 2006 No of shares m No of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully-paid Ordinary shares of 12 19 pence each At 1 May 1,093,600,313 6.9 1,069,545,227 6.8 Allotted under share option schemes 7,398,394 0.1 20,033,016 0.1 Issued as part of business combination Nil Nil 4,022,070 Nil At 30 April 1,100,998,707 7.0 1,093,600,313 6.9 The balance on the share capital account represents the aggregate nominal value of all ordinary shares in issue.
The Group operates two Employee Share Ownership Trusts: the Stagecoach Group Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and the Stagecoach Group Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Shares held by these trusts are treated as a deduction from equity in the Groups financial statements.
Other assets and liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in the Groups financial statements as if they were assets and liabilities of the Group.
As at 30 April 2007, the QUEST held 369,399 2006: 628,285 ordinary shares in the Company and the EBT held 5,825,879 2006: 4,690,333 ordinary shares in the Company.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 83 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 30 Share based payments The Group operates an Executive Share Option Scheme, a Save as You Earn Scheme SAYE, a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and an Executive Participation Plan EPP.
The Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38 gives further details of each of these arrangements.
As disclosed in note 7, a share based payment charge of 2.0m 2006: 2.2m has been recognised in the income statement during the year in relation to the above schemes, including Nil 2006: 0.4m in relation to our disposed London bus and New Zealand operations.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS, the requirements of IFRS 2 have not been applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 that had vested before the date of transition, being 1 May 2004.
Therefore the following disclosures relate only to awards made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 May 2004.
These options became fully vested during the year to April 2007.
LTIP awards are based on notional units.
One notional unit has a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to performance conditions.
LTIP awards are not share options and are valued using a separate simulation model therefore some of the above disclosures are not applicable.
Expected volatility was determined at the date of grant from historic volatility, adjusted for events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
All options were granted for nil consideration.
The mid-market price for the ordinary shares at 30 April 2007 was 1.87 2006: 1.08.
The Companys ordinary shares traded in the range of 0.93 to 1.89 2006: 1.01 to 1.23 during the year to that date.
As share options are exercised continuously throughout the year, the weighted average share price during the year of 1.37 2006: 1.12 is representative of the weighted average share price at the date of exercise.
page 84 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 85 Note 30 Share based payments continued Save as You Earn Scheme One issue from the SAYE scheme was in operation during the year as follows: Issue Option grant date Savings contract start date Exercise price Date from which exercisable Expiry date D 11 February 2005 1 April 2005 103.275p 1 April 2008 30 September 2008 The expiry date of any individual SAYE option can be extended to be six months following the date of payment of the final amount due under the related savings account but may be no later than six months after the applicable exercisable date shown above.
The changes in the number of participating employees and options over ordinary shares were as follows: Issue D Number of Ordinary employees shares under option Beginning of year 3,797 10,756,671 Options exercised 346 825,113 Options lapsed 859 3,195,557 End of year 2,592 6,736,001 Long Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, executives are awarded notional units with a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares but subject to performance conditions.
The movements in the LTIP during the year to 30 April 2007 were as follows: Outstanding Awards granted Dividends Outstanding Fair value per LTIP Fair value per LTIP at start of year in year in year at end of year unit at grant date unit at 30 April 2007 TSR ranking Vesting date Award date notional units notional units notional units notional units at 30 April 2007 26 August 20051,526,096 Nil 57,346 1,583,442 0.4237 0.8841 104 26 Aug 2008 29 June 2006 Nil 1,728,819 47,400 1,776,219 0.4381 1.4991 13 29 June 2009 TSR ranking is based on the Groups TSR ranking in the FTSE 250 whereby 1 is top and 250 is bottom of the comparator group.
The TSR ranking is calculated by independent advisors.
Executive Participation Plan Under the EPP executives and senior managers sacrifice part of their actual annual cash bonus and are awarded deferred shares with an initial market value approximately equal to the amount of bonus foregone.
The movements in EPP notional units during the year were as follows: Awards granted Dividends Outstanding Expected total Closing share in year in year at end of year Vesting date value of award at share price Award date notional units notional units notional units time of grant on date of grant 30 June 2006 1,142,679 30,931 1,173,610 30 June 2009 1,305,511 1.1525 Participants are required to sacrifice part of their actual annual bonus award and are awarded deferred shares with an initial market value approximately equal to the amount of actual cash bonus foregone.
Note 31 Reserves 2007 2006 m m Share premium account 179.4 174.8 Retained earnings 91.8 212.1 Capital redemption reserve 243.0 243.0 Own shares 7.3 6.1 Translation reserve 3.0 4.0 Available for sale reserve Nil 1.9 Cash flow hedging reserve 4.6 0.8 A reconciliation of the movements in the above reserves is shown in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 44.
The balance of the share premium account represents the amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares offset by issue costs, bonus issues of shares and any transfer between reserves.
The balance held in the retained earnings reserve is the accumulated retained profits of the Group.
The consolidated profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the financial year includes 464.4m 2006: 52.0m in respect of the Company.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 85 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 31 Reserves continued Cumulative goodwill of 113.8m 2006: 113.8m has been written off against reserves in periods prior to 1 May 1998 in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force and such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
Details of own shares held are given in note 29.
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Stagecoach Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Groups two Employee Share Ownership Trusts to satisfy options under the Groups share option schemes offset by any sales proceeds.
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translations of the financial statements of foreign operations.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments in foreign operations.
The available for sale reserve records the changes in fair value on available for sale investments.
On disposal, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
The cash flow hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
On maturity, the cumulative gain or loss is recycled to the income statement to match the recognition of the hedged item through the income statement.
Note 32 Consolidated cash flows a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated by operations 2007 2006 m m Operating profit of continuing Group companies 166.4 120.0 Operating profit of discontinued operations 5.2 29.1 Depreciation continuing operations 68.3 61.0 discontinued operations 2.5 10.7 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.2 1.9 Intangible asset expenses 9.6 7.4 Impairment of available for sale investment 1.3 Nil Share based payment expense continuing operations 2.0 1.8 discontinued operations Nil 0.4 Operating cashflows before working capital 255.5 232.3 Decrease increase in inventories 0.5 0.9 Decrease increase in receivables 14.9 24.4 Decrease increase in payables 2.8 14.9 Increase in provisions 13.7 6.8 Non cash past service pension adjustment 28.9 Nil Decrease in retirement benefit obligations 94.9 6.3 Cash generated by operations 158.0 222.4 During the year, the Group entered into hire purchase arrangements in respect of new assets with a total capital value at inception of the contracts of 51.6m 2006: 11.3m.
After taking account of deposits paid up front, new hire purchase liabilities of 49.0m 2006: 10.7m were recognised.
b Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2007 2006 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: m m Net book values 6.8 11.3 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.2 1.9 Gain on disposal of properties 3.6 0.8 Value of property, plant and equipment traded in 0.9 2.0 Movement in receivables for proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.7 Nil Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 11.0 8.2 page 86 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 87 Note 32 Consolidated cash flows continued c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds debt 2007 2006 m m Increase in cash 315.1 59.3 Cash flow from movement in borrowings 40.9 59.5 356.0 118.8 New hire purchase 49.0 10.7 Other movements 15.3 8.5 Borrowings acquired as part of business combinations Nil 20.9 Decrease in net debt 322.3 78.7 Opening net debt UK GAAP definition see note 32 d 135.9 214.6 Closing net funds debt UK GAAP definition see note 32 d 186.4 135.9 d Analysis of net funds debt IFRS does not explicitly define net funds debt.
The analysis provided below therefore shows analysis of net funds debt as UK GAAP defines it.
The analysis below further shows the other items classified as net borrowings in the consolidated balance sheet.
Charged Foreign credited to New hire exchange income Opening Cashflows purchase movements statement Closing m m m m m m Cash 164.5 315.5 Nil 0.9 Nil 479.1 Cash collateral 33.8 0.4 Nil Nil Nil 33.4 Hire purchase and finance lease obligations 101.5 28.2 49.0 Nil Nil 122.3 Bank loans and loan stock 49.1 11.6 Nil 0.5 Nil 37.0 Bonds 183.6 1.1 Nil 15.8 0.1 166.8 UK GAAP net debt funds 135.9 356.0 49.0 15.4 0.1 186.4 Accrued interest on bonds 7.3 15.3 Nil 0.5 15.1 6.6 Reclassification of foreign exchange forward contract 0.1 1.1 Nil 1.0 Nil Nil Unamortised gain on early settlement of interest rate swaps 15.9 Nil Nil Nil 6.1 9.8 Net borrowings funds 159.0 370.2 49.0 16.9 9.1 170.0 The net total of cash and cash collateral of 512.5m 2006: 198.3m is classified in the balance sheet as 513.3m 2006: 198.5m in cash and cash equivalents and 0.8m 2006: 0.2m as bank overdrafts within borrowings.
e Restricted cash The cash collateral balance as at 30 April 2007 of 33.4m 2006: 33.8m comprises balances held in trust in respect of loan notes of 32.3m 2006: 33.0m, proceeds from the sale of businesses held in Escrow of 0.4m 2006: Nil and North America restricted cash balances of 0.7m 2006: 0.8m.
In addition, cash includes train operating company cash of 96.2m 2006: 89.2m.
Under the terms of the franchise agreements, train operating companies can only distribute cash out of retained profits.
f Disposal of subsidiaries and other businesses Details of the net assets disposed of from subsidiaries and other businesses, the related sales proceeds and the effect on cash flows for the year, are set out in note 18. g Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 2007 2006 m m Net assets acquired at fair value Nil 13.5 Goodwill see note 11 Nil 20.7 Nil 34.2 Consideration: Shares issued in respect of acquisitions Nil 4.5 Cash and acquisition expenses paid in year Nil 29.7 Nil 34.2 Stagecoach Group plc | page 87 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 32 Consolidated cash flows continued g Purchase of subsidiary undertakings continued The cash paid during the year in respect of the purchase of subsidiary undertakings and other businesses was as follows: 2007 2006 m m Cash and acquisition expenses paid in year Nil 29.7 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired Nil 2.1 Net cash paid in respect of acquisitions in year Nil 27.6 Deferred consideration in respect of businesses acquired in prior years 0.1 0.1 0.1 27.7 h Non cash transactions The principal non cash transactions were the acquisition of property, plant and equipment using new hire purchase of 49.0m 2006:10.7m.
Note 33 Contingencies Contingent liabilities i A performance bond backed by a bank facility for 44.3m 2006: 44.3m, a season ticket bond backed bank by a facility for Nil 2006: 33.7m and a holding company guarantee of 15.7m 2006: 15.7m have been provided to the DfT in support of the Groups franchise obligations at South West Trains Limited at 30 April 2007.
The franchise agreement for South West Trains Limited expired on 4 February 2007, however, the performance bond and a holding company guarantee remain in place for a period of 6 months beyond the franchise expiry date.
At 30 April 2007, a performance bond backed by a bank facility for 10.7m 2006: Nil, a season ticket bond backed by a bank facility for 34.5m 2006: Nil and a holding company guarantee of a 25.0m intercompany loan facility 2006: Nil have been provided to the DfT in support of the Groups franchise obligation in relation to the Stagecoach South Western Trains Limited obligations under the new South Western franchise which commenced on 4 February 2007.
These contingent liabilities are not expected to crystallise.
ii The Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have, in the normal course of business, entered into a number of long-term supply contracts.
The most significant of these relate to track, station and depot access facilities, together with new train lease and maintenance arrangements.
iii Under UK Rail franchise agreements, the Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have agreed with the DfT annual amounts receivable or payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises for future periods.
Under these agreements, there is a requirement to comply with a number of obligations.
Failure to comply with these obligations would be a breach of the relevant franchise.
iv The Group and the Company are from time to time party to legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
Liabilities have been recognised in the financial statements for the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle obligations arising under such legal actions.
As at 30 April 2007, the accruals in the consolidated financial statements for such claims total 2.6m 2006: 4.4m.
Note 34 Guarantees and other financial commitments 2007 2006 a Capital commitments m m Capital commitments are as follows: Contracted for but not provided For delivery in one year 74.3 55.4 b Operating lease commitments The following are the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2007: Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2008 7.5 5.6 100.6 4.1 117.8 Year ending 30 April 2009 6.8 5.5 100.0 3.7 116.0 Year ending 30 April 2010 6.3 3.5 100.0 3.4 113.2 Year ending 30 April 2011 5.9 2.3 100.0 3.2 111.4 Year ending 30 April 2012 4.5 2.0 100.0 3.0 109.5 1 May 2012 and thereafter 21.8 1.2 476.9 1.7 501.6 52.8 20.1 977.5 19.1 1,069.5 All operating lease commitments associated with Stagecoach South Western Trains Limited are assumed to terminate in February 2017, in line with the franchise end.
page 88 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 89 Note 34 Guarantees and other financial commitments b Operating lease commitments continued The following are the future minimum contractual lease payments due under unexpired operating leases as at 30 April 2006: Buses & other Land & road transportation Trains & Plant & buildings equipment rolling stock machinery Total m m m m m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2007 7.7 14.5 84.8 3.2 110.2 Year ending 30 April 2008 3.3 10.1 Nil 0.9 14.3 Year ending 30 April 2009 2.8 10.3 Nil 0.5 13.6 Year ending 30 April 2010 2.5 1.3 Nil 0.1 3.9 Year ending 30 April 2011 2.2 0.1 Nil 0.1 2.4 1 May 2011 and thereafter 8.6 Nil Nil Nil 8.6 27.1 36.3 84.8 4.8 153.0 All operating lease commitments associated with South West Trains were assumed to terminate in February 2007, in line with the franchise end.
c Network Rail charges Stagecoach South Western has contracts with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots until February 2017.
Commitments for payments under these contracts as at 30 April 2007 are as shown below.
Certain of the agreements that Stagecoach South Western has with Network Rail expire in August 2007 and December 2008.
The Directors expect these agreements to be extended in due course.
2007 m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2008 151.0 Year ending 30 April 2009 98.3 Year ending 30 April 2010 1.0 Year ending 30 April 2011 1.0 Year ending 30 April 2012 1.0 1 May 2012 and thereafter 6.7 259.0 South Wests Trains had contracts with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots up until the franchise expiry in February 2007.
Commitments for payments under these contracts as at 30 April 2006 were as follows: 2007 m Lease payments due in respect of: Year ending 30 April 2007 141.0 Year ending 30 April 2008 Nil Year ending 30 April 2009 Nil Year ending 30 April 2010 Nil Year ending 30 April 2011 Nil 1 May 2011 and thereafter Nil 141.0 d Joint ventures Our share of commitments and contingent liabilities in joint ventures shown below are based on the latest statutory financial statements of the relevant companies: 2007 2006 m m Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 60.4 68.8 Capital commitments Nil Nil Franchise performance bonds 14.7 14.7 Season ticket bonds 1.3 1.2 Stagecoach Group plc | page 89 59983 StCoachRep39to100 5 7 07 19:33 Page 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 35 Related party transactions Details of major related party transactions during the year ended 30 April 2007 are provided below, except for those relating to the remuneration of the Directors and management.
i Loan to Virgin Rail Group Limited At 30 April 2006, the Group had loan notes receivable of 3.3m from Virgin Rail Group Limited, which is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
The Group holds 49% of the share capital of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited and accounts for its investment in Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited as an interest in a joint venture.
During the year ended 30 April 2007, Virgin Rail Group Limited settled all of the outstanding loan notes together with all accrued interest.
The Group earned interest of 0.2m on the loan notes in the period from 1 May 2006 to settlement 2006: 0.3m.
ii Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited - Non-Executive Directors Two of the Groups managers are non-executive directors of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
During the year ended 30 April 2007, the Group earned fees of 25,000 2006: 25,000 from Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited in this regard.
iii ScotAirways Group Limited Until September 2006, Brian Souter Chief Executive and Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director controlled 93.8% of the shares of ScotAirways Group Limited.
Brian Souter was also Chairman of ScotAirways Group Limited.
Brian Souter and Ann Gloag disposed of their entire shareholdings in ScotAirways Group Limited in September 2006 and Brian Souter stepped down as Chairman at that time.
ScotAirways Group Limited therefore ceased to be a related party of the Group in September 2006.
During the period from 1 May 2006 to the time ScotAirways Group Limited ceased to be a related party of the Group, the Group purchased airline flights from ScotAirways Group Limited totalling 43,871 2006: 76,168. iv Noble Grossart Limited Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director is a former executive director and current non-executive director of Noble Grossart Limited that provided advisory services to the Group during the period.
Total fees payable to Noble Grossart Limited in respect of the year ended 30 April 2007 amounted to 20,000 2006: 20,100.
At 30 April 2007, Noble Grossart Investments Limited, a subsidiary of Noble Grossart Limited, held 6,354,443 2006: 6,354,443 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 0.6% 2006: 0.6% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital v Alexander Dennis Limited On 21 May 2004, Brian Souter and Ann Gloag together gained control of 39.3% of the shares and voting rights in Alexander Dennis Limited.
They now collectively hold 37.7% 30 April 2007: 37.2%: 30 April 2006: 39.3% of the shares and voting rights.
Noble Grossart Investments Limited see iv above controls a further 28.3% 30 April 2007: 27.9%: 30 April 2006: 29.5% of the shares and voting rights of Alexander Dennis Limited.
None of Brian Souter, Ann Gloag or Ewan Brown is a director of Alexander Dennis Limited nor do they have any involvement in the management of Alexander Dennis Limited.
Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Alexander Dennis Limited.
For the year ended 30 April 2007, the Group purchased 42.8m 2006: 46.5m of vehicles from Alexander Dennis Limited and 3.9m 2006: 2.9m of spare parts and other services.
For new orders placed with Alexander Dennis Limited for vehicles, the Group has consulted with the UK Listing Authority and taken the appropriate measures to ensure that the transactions with Alexander Dennis Limited comply with the Listing Rules.
vi Pension Schemes Details of contributions made to pension schemes are contained in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
vii Robert Walters plc Martin Griffiths became a non-executive director of Robert Walters plc in July 2006 and received remuneration of 29,000 in respect of his services for the period from the date of his appointment to 30 April 2007. viii Loan to New York Splash Tours LLC During the year ended 30 April 2007 a loan was made to the Splash Tours joint venture.
This interest bearing loan of 1.9m 2006: Nil was outstanding as at 30 April 2007.
Note 36 Post balance sheet events The Board announced on 14 March 2007 that Stagecoach would return approximately 700m to shareholders which equates to 63 pence per ordinary share in issue at the Record Date, being 11 May 2007.
The return of value was approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 27 April 2007.
Since the balance sheet date, 277,777,735 B shares and 823,220,972 C Shares were issued in connection with the return of value.
253,584,435 B Shares were redeemed at 63 pence each and the remaining 24,193,300 B Shares are redeemable in the future at 63 pence each.
A special dividend of 63 pence per C Share was paid or waived on 458,001,388 C Shares which then converted to Deferred Shares of negligible value.
The remaining 365,219,584 C Shares were bought by Credit Suisse for 63 pence each and were later bought by the Company for 63 pence each and immediately cancelled.
For every 14 ordinary shares held on the Record Date being 11 May 2007, shareholders received 9 new ordinary shares and 14 B or C shares.
On 22 June 2007, the Group signed a contract to operate the East Midlands rail franchise.
The new 7-year and 4-month franchise, which is worth 235m in annual revenue, will run from 11 November 2007. page 90 | Stagecoach Group plc
