Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Presentation of financial statements The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the Group with the exception General information of IFRIC4.
As a result of the adoption of IFRIC4 an additional The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC are the 8 million of assets have been recognised in property, plant development, manufacture and marketing of food and and equipment at 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 industrial ingredients that have been made from renewable 3 million offset by associated finance lease creditors of resources.
The Group operates more than 60 production 8 million in borrowings 31 March 2005 3 million.
Net facilities in 24 countries, and in numerous partnerships debt at 31 March 2006 has been restated from 858 million and joint ventures, located predominantly in Europe, the to 866 million 31 March 2005 471 million to 474 million.
Americas and in South East Asia.
There was no material impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Company has New IFRS standards and interpretations not adopted its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS8 Operating Segments Basis of preparation IAS1 Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial These consolidated financial statements are presented on the Statements: Capital Disclosures basis of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRIC7 Applying IAS29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary adopted by the European Union and interpretations issued by Economies for the First Time the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC8 Scope of IFRS2 IFRIC and have been prepared in accordance with the Listing IFRIC9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, and the IFRIC10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment Companies Act 1985, as applicable to companies reporting IFRIC11 IFRS2 Group and treasury share transactions under IFRS.
These standards, amendments and interpretations are These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in effective for the Group from 1 April 2007 with the exception accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 2 and of IFRS8, which is effective from 1 April 2009.
The adoption under the historical cost convention, except where modified by of these standards, amendments and interpretations is not the revaluation of certain financial instruments and commodities.
expected to have a material impact on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
The adoption of IFRS7 will introduce These consolidated financial statements are presented in additional disclosures in the Groups financial statements pounds sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
and the adoption of IFRS8 may affect disclosures.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements requires management to exercise its judgement in the process for the parent company, prepared in accordance with UK of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas GAAP, are set out on pages 133 to 139. involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity and areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
2 Group accounting policies Use of adjusted measures Basis of consolidation Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax and adjusted a Subsidiaries earnings per share information.
These measures are used Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the by Tate & Lyle for internal performance analysis and incentive power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the adjusted and exceptional items are not defined terms voting rights and taking into account the existence of potential under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The term adjusted refers The purchase method of accounting is used to account for to the relevant measure being reported excluding exceptional the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised items and amortisation of intangible assets arising on identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a acquisition of businesses.
subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at New IFRS standards and interpretations adopted the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the identifiable From 1 April 2006 the following standards, amendments assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
and interpretations became effective and were adopted Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial by the Group: statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company IAS21 Amendment to IAS21 The Effects of Changes transactions and balances between Group entities are in Foreign Exchange Rates Net Investment in a eliminated on consolidation.
Foreign Operation: IAS39 Amendment to IAS39 Fair Value Option: b Joint ventures IAS39 Amendment to IAS39 Cash Flow Hedge An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint Accounting: control over its operating and financial policies.
The Groups IAS39 Amendment to IAS39 and IFRS4 Financial interests in jointly-controlled entities are accounted for by Guarantee Contracts: proportionate consolidation, whereby the Groups share of the IFRIC4 Determining whether an arrangement joint ventures income and expenses, assets and liabilities and contains a lease.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 89 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
