Notes to the consolidated financial statements 38 Post balance sheet events On 6 April 2007 the Groups subsidiary, Tate & Lyle Sucralose, Inc. filed a United States International Trade Commission Case in Washington alleging patent infringement against three Chinese manufacturing groups as well as 18 importers and distributors.
The proceedings allege infringement of patented sucralose manufacturing technology in respect of sucralose manufactured in China and imported to the US by the defendants named in the case.
This filing followed a previous filing on 22 May 2006 in the US Federal District Court for Central Illinois against a Chinese manufacturing group based in Hebei province as well as six importers of sucralose into the US.
On 16 April 2007 the Group announced the signing of an agreement to acquire an 80% holding in German speciality food ingredients group G. C. Hahn & Co. for a total cash consideration of 79 million 116 million.
The transaction is subject to antitrust approval and is expected to be completed in June 2007.
On 21 April 2007 the Group completed the sale of Tate & Lyle Canada to American Sugar Refining, Inc. Profit on disposal is expected to be approximately 55 million.
On 9 May 2007 the Group announced that it was at an advanced stage of exclusive discussions with Syral SAS a subsidiary of Tereos of France, which may lead to the disposal of its interest in certain of the facilities of its Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe division.
39 Related party disclosures Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates note 41, the Groups pension schemes and with key management being its directors and executive officers.
No related party relationships with close family members of the Groups key management existed in the current or prior year.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Transactions entered into by the Company with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries as well as the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed.
Similarly, the Groups share of transactions entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries with joint ventures and between joint ventures as well as the Groups share of the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation.
Transactions and balances with subsidiaries and joint ventures before consolidation eliminations and with associates are as follows: 31 March 2007 2006 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 48 26 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures 24 22 Receivables due from joint ventures 4 6 due from associates 3 Payables due to joint ventures 13 10 due to associates 1 1 There are no sales and purchases relating to discontinued operations included in the above analysis 2006 nil.
The Group had no material related party transactions containing unusual commercial terms.
Key management Key management compensation is disclosed in note 9.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 129 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
