Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Presentation of financial statements The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the Group with the exception General information of IFRIC4.
As a result of the adoption of IFRIC4 an additional The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC are the 8 million of assets have been recognised in property, plant development, manufacture and marketing of food and and equipment at 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 industrial ingredients that have been made from renewable 3 million offset by associated finance lease creditors of resources.
The Group operates more than 60 production 8 million in borrowings 31 March 2005 3 million.
Net facilities in 24 countries, and in numerous partnerships debt at 31 March 2006 has been restated from 858 million and joint ventures, located predominantly in Europe, the to 866 million 31 March 2005 471 million to 474 million.
Americas and in South East Asia.
There was no material impact on the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2006.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Company has New IFRS standards and interpretations not adopted its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS8 Operating Segments Basis of preparation IAS1 Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial These consolidated financial statements are presented on the Statements: Capital Disclosures basis of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRIC7 Applying IAS29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary adopted by the European Union and interpretations issued by Economies for the First Time the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC8 Scope of IFRS2 IFRIC and have been prepared in accordance with the Listing IFRIC9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, and the IFRIC10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment Companies Act 1985, as applicable to companies reporting IFRIC11 IFRS2 Group and treasury share transactions under IFRS.
These standards, amendments and interpretations are These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in effective for the Group from 1 April 2007 with the exception accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 2 and of IFRS8, which is effective from 1 April 2009.
The adoption under the historical cost convention, except where modified by of these standards, amendments and interpretations is not the revaluation of certain financial instruments and commodities.
expected to have a material impact on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
The adoption of IFRS7 will introduce These consolidated financial statements are presented in additional disclosures in the Groups financial statements pounds sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
and the adoption of IFRS8 may affect disclosures.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements requires management to exercise its judgement in the process for the parent company, prepared in accordance with UK of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas GAAP, are set out on pages 133 to 139. involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity and areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
2 Group accounting policies Use of adjusted measures Basis of consolidation Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax and adjusted a Subsidiaries earnings per share information.
These measures are used Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the by Tate & Lyle for internal performance analysis and incentive power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the adjusted and exceptional items are not defined terms voting rights and taking into account the existence of potential under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The term adjusted refers The purchase method of accounting is used to account for to the relevant measure being reported excluding exceptional the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised items and amortisation of intangible assets arising on identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a acquisition of businesses.
subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at New IFRS standards and interpretations adopted the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the identifiable From 1 April 2006 the following standards, amendments assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
and interpretations became effective and were adopted Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial by the Group: statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company IAS21 Amendment to IAS21 The Effects of Changes transactions and balances between Group entities are in Foreign Exchange Rates Net Investment in a eliminated on consolidation.
Foreign Operation: IAS39 Amendment to IAS39 Fair Value Option: b Joint ventures IAS39 Amendment to IAS39 Cash Flow Hedge An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint Accounting: control over its operating and financial policies.
The Groups IAS39 Amendment to IAS39 and IFRS4 Financial interests in jointly-controlled entities are accounted for by Guarantee Contracts: proportionate consolidation, whereby the Groups share of the IFRIC4 Determining whether an arrangement joint ventures income and expenses, assets and liabilities and contains a lease.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 89 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued Prior to 1 April 2004, exchange differences were recognised in retained earnings.
cash flows are combined on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
Where necessary, On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the adjustments are made to the financial statements of joint translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with borrowings and other currency instruments designated as those used by the Group.
The Group recognises the portion hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
of gains or losses on the sale of assets to the joint venture When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences that is attributable to the other venturers.
The Group does not that have accumulated since 1 April 2004 are recognised in recognise its share of profits or losses from the joint venture the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint venture until it resells the assets to an external entity.
Property, plant and equipment c Associates Land and buildings mainly comprise manufacturing sites and An entity is regarded as an associate if the Group has administrative facilities.
significant influence, but not control, over its operating and Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists where less depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition shareholders voting rights.
Associates are accounted for of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets under the equity method whereby the Groups income carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as statement includes its share of their profits and losses and appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic the Groups balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
statements of associates to bring the accounting policies used All repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to into line with those used by the Group.
When the Groups share the income statement during the financial period in which of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the they are incurred.
associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
to allocate the cost or revalued amount of each asset to its residual value over its useful economic life as follows: Foreign currency translation Freehold land: No depreciation a Functional and presentation currency Freehold buildings: 20 to 50 years Items included in the financial statements of each of the Leasehold property: Period of the lease Groups entities are measured using the currency of the Bulk liquid storage tanks: 12 to 20 years primary economic environment in which the entity operates Plant and machinery: 3 to 28 years the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed is the Groups presentation currency.
at each balance sheet date and adjusted if appropriate.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately b Transactions and balances to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional is greater that its estimated recoverable amount.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing from the settlement of such transactions and from the the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets included in the income statement.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity Leased assets as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group investment hedges.
assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance c Group entities leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the From 1 April 2004, the results and financial position of all the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease Groups entities that have a functional currency different from payments.
The corresponding leasing commitments, net the presentation currency are translated into the presentation of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
currency as follows: Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest i assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value components so that the interest element is charged to the adjustments for each balance sheet presented, are income statement over the period of the lease at a constant translated at the closing rate at the date of that periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the balance sheet: liability outstanding.
ii income and expenses for each income statement are Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged translated at average exchange rates as a reasonable to the income statement.
approximation to the rates prevailing on the transaction dates: and All other leases are treated as operating leases with annual rentals charged to the income statement, net of any incentives iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a granted to the lessee, over the term of the lease.
90 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued level at which goodwill is monitored by the Groups Board of directors for internal management purposes.
Further details Intangible assets are given in note 3. a Goodwill Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the fair value Financial instruments of the consideration exchanged in a business combination, a Available-for-sale financial assets including directly attributable acquisition costs, and the net fair Equity instruments held by the Group and designated as values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and is available-for-sale are carried at fair value, with movements capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and in fair value recognised directly in equity.
Cumulative fair value whenever there is an indication of impairment and is carried gains or losses on an asset are recycled through the Income at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Statement when the asset is disposed.
Where the acquired interest in the net fair value of the b Loans and receivables identifiable assets and liabilities exceeds the cost of the Non-current and current receivables and loans granted business combination, the excess is recognised immediately are carried at amortised cost less provisions for impairment.
Movements in carrying value are recognised in the income statement.
Contingent receipts represent amounts receivable under the terms of the 2004 realignment of the Sucralose business and c Borrowings are deducted from the related goodwill.
When such goodwill Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of is eliminated, receipts are recognised in the income statement.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the Gains and losses on the disposal of a business component proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the value is recognised in the income statement over the period of entity sold.
the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings b Patents and other intellectual property are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an Patents and other intellectual property are shown at historical unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Where the assets are acquired as part of a business d Commodity trading instruments combination, historical cost is based on their fair values as Commodity instruments acquired for trading purposes are at the date of the combination.
Amortisation of the assets carried at fair value.
Movements in fair value are recognised is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of their in the income statement.
e Commodity and treasury hedging instruments c Other acquired intangible assets Under IAS39, hedging relationships are categorised by type Other acquired intangible assets are intangible assets arising and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
on consolidation of acquired businesses and include brands, recipes, customer relationships and supplier networks.
i Cash flow hedges Amortisation of the assets is recognised on a straight-line Hedges of firm commitments and highly probable forecast basis over the period of their expected benefit.
transactions, including forecast intra-group transactions that are expected to affect consolidated profit or loss, are d Other intangible assets designated as cash flow hedges.
To the extent that Other intangible assets mainly includes certain development movements in the fair values of these instruments expenditure and software costs.
Costs incurred on effectively offset the underlying risk being hedged they are development projects relating to the design and testing recognised in the hedging reserve in equity until the period of new or improved products are recognised as intangible during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit assets when the IAS38 recognition criteria are met.
or loss, at which point the cumulative gain or loss is Capitalised development costs are amortised from the recognised in the income statement, offsetting the value commencement of the commercial production of the product of the hedged transaction.
on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
Research and other development expenditures are recognised ii Fair value hedges as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously Hedges against the movement in fair value of recognised recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in assets and liabilities are designated as fair value hedges.
To the extent that movements in the fair values of these instruments effectively offset the underlying risk being Impairment hedged they are recognised in the income statement Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to by offset against the hedged transaction.
amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed iii Hedges of net investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
designated as net investment hedges.
To the extent that An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the movements in the fair values of these instruments assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The effectively offset the underlying risk being hedged they are recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less recognised in the translation reserve until the period during costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing which a foreign operation is disposed of or partially impairment, assets other than goodwill are grouped at the disposed of, at which point the cumulative gain or loss lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash is recognised in profit or loss, offsetting the cumulative inflows.
Goodwill is allocated to units representing the lowest difference recognised on the translation of the net investment.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 91 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the Hedge accounting is discontinued at the point when the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable hedging instrument no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to In the case of cash flow hedging relationships, the cumulative satisfy share options granted to employees under the Groups movement in the fair value of the hedging instrument share option schemes.
The trustee purchases the Companys previously recognised in equity up to that point is retained shares on the open market using loans made by the there until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss, unless Company or other loans guaranteed by the Company.
the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, in which case the cumulative movement in fair value is Provisions transferred to profit or loss immediately.
Movements in the Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the fair value of hedging instruments where the instrument failed Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result to meet the IAS39 hedge accounting criteria or where the of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of movement represents the ineffective portion of a qualifying resources will be required to settle the obligation and the hedging relationship are recognised in the income statement amount can be reliably measured.
If the effect is material, immediately as other income and expense or net finance provisions are measured using expected future cash flows expense, as appropriate.
discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where f Embedded derivatives appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The impact Where an embedded derivative is not closely related to the of unwinding any discount is taken to finance expense.
host contract and where the host contract itself is not already recognised at fair value, movements in the fair value of the Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
embedded derivative are separated from the associated A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the transaction and, except where the embedded derivative is expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract designated as a cash flow hedging instrument, recognised are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations in the income statement.
g Fair valuation Income taxes Fair values are based on market values where they are The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year available.
For unlisted securities the Group establishes fair as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is value using valuation techniques.
These include the use of calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively recent arms length transactions, reference to other similar enacted by the balance sheet date.
instruments and discounted cash flow analysis.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Inventories method in respect of temporary differences arising from Except for those items noted below, inventories are stated differences between the carrying amount of assets and at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is differences except as noted below and deferred tax assets calculated using the first in first out or weighted average are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable cost methods, appropriate to the materials and production profits will be available against which deductible temporary processes involved.
Net realisable value represents the differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction Certain items of merchandisable agricultural commodities are which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
stated at market value, in line with regional industry accounting practices.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and Cash and cash equivalents associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid difference and it is probable that the temporary difference investments with original maturities of three months or less, will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and bank overdrafts which are not considered to be borrowings in nature.
Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset or Share capital liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs income statement, except when it relates to items credited directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
is also dealt with in equity.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net a net basis.
of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently 92 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid Revenue recognition contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a a Sales of goods and services cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Sales comprise the amount receivable in the ordinary course of business, net of value added and sales taxes, for goods b Other post-employment obligations and services provided.
Sales are recognised at the point or Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare points at which the Group has performed its obligations in benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is connection with the contractual terms of the sales agreement, usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up and in exchange obtains the right to consideration.
to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over b Interest income the period of employment using an accounting methodology Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains the effective interest method.
and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity c Dividend income immediately.
These obligations are valued annually by Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive independent qualified actuaries.
c Share-based compensation Employee benefits The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based a Pension obligations compensation plans.
The fair value of employee services Group companies operate various pension schemes.
received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised The schemes are generally funded through payments to as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the insurance companies or trustee payments to insurance vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined vesting conditions for example, earnings targets.
Non-market benefit and defined contribution plans.
vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an At each balance sheet date, for options granted with nonamount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on market vesting conditions, the Group revises its estimates retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such of the number of options that are expected to become as age, years of service and compensation.
It recognises the impact of the revision of A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The proceeds The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay received net of any directly attributable transaction costs further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets are credited to share capital and share premium when to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service the options are exercised.
in the current and prior periods.
Research and development The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement defined benefit pension plans are the present value of the in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for is incurred unless it is probable that future economic benefits actuarial gains or losses charged or credited to equity and will flow to the Group from the asset being developed, the cost past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit can be demonstrated.
When the recognition criteria are met, credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit development costs are capitalised as an intangible asset and obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate life from the time the asset is available for use.
bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity Borrowing costs approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Borrowing costs directly arising from the purchase, Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, construction or production of an asset are capitalised unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on as part of the cost of that asset.
the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs Exceptional items are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense that The Group has elected to apply the 2004 amendment to are material in amount and unlikely to recur and which merit IAS19, Employee Benefits, with effect from 1 April 2004. separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience the Groups underlying financial performance.
Examples of adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are events giving rise to the disclosure of material items of income charged or credited to equity immediately.
and expense as exceptional items include, but are not limited For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to, impairment events, disposals of operations or individual to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans assets, litigation claims by or against the Group and the on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group restructuring of components of the Groups operations.
has no further payment obligations once the contributions Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 93 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
