02 What we do Operating environment Markets As shown on pages 22 and 23, Tate & Lyle participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Of these markets, food and beverage and industrial are the most significant.
We principally sell our ingredients, ingredient solutions and services to manufacturers in these two markets.
They use our ingredients to manufacture their consumer and industrial products.
In the food sector, we also sell end-products directly through retail distribution channels to retail customers in certain markets.
Our customer base includes many of the worlds major global food, beverage and industrial companies.
Our ingredients can be found in the products of nearly all the worlds top 100 food and beverage companies.
Value added food ingredients The key driver of growth for our business is value added food ingredients.
In this market we operate primarily within three categories: sweeteners such as SPLENDA Sucralose and polyols: texturants such as starch and gums: and wellness ingredients such as fibre, protein and probiotics.
In 2006, the addressable global market for value added food ingredients in these three categories was estimated to be worth 6.8 billion.
The market in these categories is forecast to grow at a compound average annual rate of 4.1% to 8 billion in 2010.
We believe that our ability to offer ingredients, ingredient solutions and services that help our customers meet consumers increasing demands for healthy but great-tasting food represents a significant growth opportunity.
Consumer research Customer understanding drives all that we do.
At the heart of our customer approach is the use of market research to understand the consumer, our markets and our customers needs.
The consumer is our customers customer.
Therefore we work hard to understand consumer drivers and trends so we can help our customers anticipate and respond to new challenges.
Our bespoke research, which is carried out in Europe and the Americas, is designed to gain specific insights into dietary habits, lifestyles and health aspirations.
We use these insights to direct our internal research and development programme and to help market our ingredients and services.
Solutions We also offer tailored solutions for our customers.
These are unique combinations of ingredients or services that allow food manufacturers to achieve certain goals.
Our solutions are marketed under four services: Tate & Lyle CREATE innovations in shape, structure, taste and texture: Tate & Lyle OPTIMIZE maximising efficiency and value to help our customers meet their cost and margin targets: Tate & Lyle REBALANCE reformulating to lower-fat, lower-sugar and lowerENRICH calorie positions without compromising taste and texture: and Our ENRICH service, launched in January 2007, focuses on three Tate & Lyle ENRICH enhancing the nutritional benefits of foods and beverages main areas: digestive health and without compromising their taste.
immunity: obesity and weight management: and childrens health.
Our solutions-based approach has changed the way we take our products to market and the way we work with and are perceived by our customers, providing us with new opportunities to sell our products and grow our business.
24 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Global Food Ingredients Group To accelerate the growth strategy for our value added food ingredients business and to strengthen further our commitment to delivering excellent customer service, in October 2005 we formed the Global Food Ingredients Group.
This group combines the marketing, research and development and sales teams from our value added portfolio into one team.
It focuses on co-ordinating our customerfocused activities so as to maximise the profitability and market reach of our range of value added and functional food ingredients, as well as taking us into new ingredient n areas and growth opportunities in the future.
By working together we are able to drive more innovation and offer greater speed-to-market for our customers.
During the year, we established new sales offices in Melbourne, Australia, and Shanghai, China, to extend the marketing of our value added food ingredients in the Asia Pacific Focus on the customer region.
In April 2007, we announced a proposed investment of 79 million to acquire an 80% holding in German speciality food ingredients group G. C. Hahn & Co. which will further expand the reach and depth of our Global Food Ingredients Group.
Industrial ingredients We are developing a growing portfolio of unique renewable industrial ingredients.
As well as sustaining profitability in mature industrial product lines such as starch produced for the paper industry, our unique fermentation, extraction, separation and purification skills have facilitated successful production of other industrial products such as ethanol and Bio-PDO, an innovative new monomer made from corn by our joint venture with DuPont.
Competition The starch industry is concentrated around a small number of large participants who operate in many different application areas, including food, beverage, paper and pharmaceuticals.
The US accounts for over half of global starch production.
Our main competitors in the US for corn wet milling and starch-based products are Archer Daniels Midland Company, Corn Products International and Cargill.
National Starch a subsidiary of ICI PLC is another significant competitor in the US, particularly in relation to highervalue modified food and industrial starches, as is Penford Corporation in the North American paper starch industry.
In Europe, our main competitors in the starch industry are Cargill and Roquette Frres.
Competition for our European sugar business comes mainly from British Sugar a subsidiary of Associated British Foods plc, Sdzucker, Nordzucker and Tereos.
The main competitors for our global food ingredients business are Cargill, Danisco, Kerry and National Starch.
Governmental regulation Some of the markets in which Tate & Lyle operates are subject to significant influence from legislation or regulation.
The main regulatory development during the year related to the reform of the EU sugar regime.
More information on the impact of this reform on the Group is given in the Chief Executives review on page 8 and in the operating and financial review on pages 36 to 48.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 25 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
