Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC: Group financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Tate & Lyle We read other information contained in the annual report PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement financial statements.
The other information comprises only of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the notes to operating and financial review, the corporate governance the consolidated financial statements.
These Group financial statement, the directors report and the directors remuneration statements have been prepared under the accounting policies report.
We consider the implications for our report if we set out therein.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our We have reported separately on the parent company financial responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
statements of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in and the Group financial statements in accordance with the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards of the significant estimates and judgements made by the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, statement of directors responsibilities.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements adequately disclosed.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and the information and explanations which we considered only for the Companys members as a body in accordance necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Opinion Group financial statements have been properly prepared in In our opinion: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you as to whether in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, our opinion the information given in the directors report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at The information given in the directors report includes that 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for specific information presented in the operating and financial the year then ended: review that is cross-referred from the business review section of the directors report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion the Group financial statements have been properly we have not received all the information and explanations prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 we require for our audit, or if information specified by law and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and regarding directors remuneration and other transactions the information given in the directors report is consistent is not disclosed.
with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by  LLP the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Chartered Accountants and report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether Registered Auditors the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks 1 Embankment Place and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the London WC2N 6RH Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and 22 May 2007 control procedures.
