Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Government grants In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements A government grant is recognised when there is reasonable in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 2, assurance that any conditions attached to the grant will management has used estimates and judgements to establish be satisfied and the grants will be received.
A government the amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical grant is recognised at its fair value and is accounted for as a accounting estimates and judgements are those which have deduction against the cost concerned or within other income the greatest impact on the financial statements and require over the periods necessary to match the grants with the the most difficult, subjective and complex judgements about related costs that they are intended to compensate.
matters that are inherently uncertain.
Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and expectations Dividend distribution of future events that management believe to be reasonable.
A dividend distribution to the Companys equity holders is However given the judgemental nature of such estimates, recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements actual results could be different from the assumptions used.
in the period in which the dividends are approved by the The critical accounting policies are set out below.
Companys shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, by the Board of directors.
Impairment of assets Asset impairments have the potential to significantly impact Segment reporting income.
In order to determine whether impairments are A business segment is a group of assets or operations required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the engaged in providing products or services that are subject asset.
This calculation is usually based on projecting future to risks and returns that are different from those of other cash flows over a five-year period and using a terminal value business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount providing products or services within a particular economic factor is applied to obtain a current value value in use.
environment that are subject to risks and returns that The fair value less costs to sell of an asset is used if this are different from those segments operating in other results in an amount in excess of value in use.
Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on managements expectations of future volumes and Discontinued operations and non-current assets margins based on plans and best estimates of the productivity held for sale of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows Business components that represent separate major lines of therefore exclude benefits from major expansion projects business or geographical areas of operations are recognised requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure as discontinued if the operations have been disposed of, has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
are being abandoned or meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Future cash flows are discounted using a discount rate based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as if appropriate for circumstances specific to the asset being held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is impacted a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
by estimates of interest rates, equity returns and market This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is and country related risks.
The Groups weighted average highly probable, expected to be completed within one year cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Operations held for sale are held Retirement benefits at the lower of their carrying amount on the date they are Among the range of retirement benefits provided in classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
businesses around the Group are a number of defined benefit pension plans and an unfunded healthcare benefit scheme in the United States.
The amounts recorded in the financial statements for both of these types of arrangement are based on a number of assumptions, changes to which could have a material impact on the reported amounts.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans and the liability under the healthcare plan is shown in the balance sheet.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities, including healthcare liabilities, are based on actuarial estimates of the present value of future pension or other benefits that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present value.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
If this assumption changed by 0.1%, the gross plan liabilities would change by approximately 17 million.
94 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued The income statement generally comprises a regular charge to operating profit and a finance charge which represents the net of expected income from plan assets and an interest charge on plan liabilities.
These calculations are based on expected outcomes at the start of the financial year.
The income statement is most sensitive to changes in expected returns from plan assets and the discount rate used to calculate the interest charge on plan liabilities.
A 0.1% change in the assumption of the real discount rate would change the finance expense by approximately 0.4 million.
Full details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from the Groups actuaries, are set out in note 30.
Provisions The Group recognises a provision where a legal or constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Where appropriate, future cash outflows that are expected to arise over a number of years are discounted to a present value using a relevant discount rate.
At the balance sheet date provisions included amounts for insurance claims payable by the Groups reinsurance company, legal matters, employee termination and other restructuring costs and amounts payable under the deferred consideration clauses of the realignment of the Sucralose business in April 2004.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current estimates the judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Taxation The Group operates in a large number of tax jurisdictions around the world.
Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years.
Consequently at the balance sheet date tax liabilities and assets are based on managements best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent past tax losses that the Group expects to recover at some time in the future and by their nature the amounts recorded are therefore dependent on managements judgement about future events.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 95 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
