Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting This Notice of Meeting is important and requires your of any such contracts as if the authority conferred Special resolutions: immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the by this Resolution had not expired.
12 That subject to the passing of Resolution 11, the action you should take, you are recommended to Board be and it is hereby empowered, pursuant to SPECIAL BUSINESS seek your own financial advice immediately from a Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity stockbroker, bank manager, accountant or other securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Ordinary resolutions: independent financial adviser authorised under the Companies Act 1985 for cash pursuant to the 14 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. authority conferred by the previous Resolution the year ended 31 December 2007. and or where such allotment constitutes an allotment Notice is hereby given that the seventy third Annual 15 That in accordance with Section 367 of the of equity securities by virtue of Section 94 3A of the General Meeting of Taylor Wimpey plc the Company Companies Act 2006, the Company and all Companies Act 1985 as if sub-section 1 of Section will be held on 17 April 2008 at 11.00 am at The Royal companies which are its subsidiaries when this 89 of the Companies Act did not apply to any such College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Resolution is passed are authorised to: allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: Park, London NW1 4LE, for the following purposes: a make political donations to political parties i to the allotment of equity securities in connection and or independent election candidates not ORDINARY BUSINESS with a rights issue, open offer or any other preexceeding 250,000 in aggregate: Ordinary resolutions: emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders 1 To receive the Report of Directors and Accounts excluding any shareholder holding shares as b make political donations to political organisations together with the Auditors Report for the year ended treasury shares where the equity securities other than political parties not exceeding 31 December 2007. respectively attributable to the interests of such 250,000 in aggregate: ordinary shareholders are proportionate as 2 To declare due and payable on 1 July 2008 a final c incur political expenditure not exceeding nearly as may be to the respective numbers of dividend of 10.25 pence per ordinary share of the 250,000 in aggregate ordinary shares held by them subject to such Company for the year ended 31 December 2007 exclusions or other arrangements as the Board during the period beginning with the date of passing to shareholders on the register at close of business may deem necessary or expedient to deal with this Resolution and ending on 16 October 2009 or, on 23 May 2008. fractional entitlements or legal or practical if sooner, at the conclusion of the Annual General 3 To elect as a Director, Peter Redfern, who was problems arising in any overseas territory, the Meeting of the Company in 2009. appointed as a Director of the Company by the requirements of any regulatory body or stock For the purposes of this Resolution the terms Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
exchange or any other matter whatsoever : and political donation, political parties, independent 4 To elect as a Director, Baroness Dean of Thorntonii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subelection candidates, political organisation and le-Fylde, who was appointed as a Director of the paragraph i above of equity securities up to an political expenditure have the meanings given by Company by the Board since the last Annual aggregate nominal amount of 14,478,725: sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006.
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual 16.
That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to 5 To elect as a Director, Anthony Reading, who was General Meeting of the Company in 2009, save that adopt the Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan appointed as a Director of the Company by the the Company may before such expiry make offers the TW Performance Share Plan the main features Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
or agreements which would or might require equity of which are summarised in Appendix 1 on page 108 securities to be allotted after such expiry and and in the form of the rules produced to the meeting 6 To elect as a Director, Ian Sutcliffe, who was notwithstanding such expiry the Board may allot and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of appointed as a Director of the Company by the equity securities in pursuance of such offers and identification and to do all things that they may Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
agreements as if the power conferred by this consider necessary or expedient to implement or 7 To elect as a Director, David Williams, who was Resolution had not expired.
give effect to the same and to adopt further plans appointed as a Director of the Company by the based on the TW Performance Share Plan but 13 That the Company be and it is hereby generally Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
modified to take account of local tax, exchange and unconditionally authorised to make market control, securities law or regulations in overseas 8 To re-elect Peter Johnson, who retires by rotation as purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 territories, provided that such further plans shall a Director of the Company in accordance with the of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of count against any limits on individual or overall Articles of Association.
25 pence each of the Company ordinary shares, participation under the TW Performance Share Plan.
provided that: 9 To re-elect Andrew Dougal, who retires as a Director 17.
That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to of the Company in accordance with the Combined i the maximum number of ordinary shares adopt the Taylor Wimpey Share Option Plan the TW Code on Corporate Governance.
hereby authorised to be purchased shall be Share Option Plan in the form of the rules produced 115,829,900: 10 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion ii the minimum price which may be paid for purpose of identification: and to do all things that of the next general meeting at which accounts are ordinary shares is 25 pence per ordinary share: they may consider necessary or expedient to laid before the Company, and authorise the Audit implement or give effect to the same including iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses Committee to fix their remuneration on behalf of obtaining approval from HM Revenue & Customs for which may be paid for an ordinary share is an the Board.
the approved schedule to the TW Share Option Plan amount equal to 105 per cent of the average and to adopt further plans based on the TW Share 11 That the Board be and it is hereby generally and of the middle market quotations for an ordinary Option Plan but modified to take account of local tax, unconditionally authorised in substitution for any share as derived from the London Stock exchange control, securities law or regulations in previous authority or authorities to exercise all the Exchange Daily Official List for the five business overseas territories, provided that such further plans powers of the Company to allot relevant securities days immediately preceding the date on which shall count against any limits on individual or overall within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies such ordinary share is purchased: participation under the TW Share Option Plan.
Act up to but not exceeding a maximum aggregate iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the nominal amount of 87,963,850 during the period Special resolution: earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General commencing on the date of passing this Resolution 18.
That the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting of the Company in 2009 and 16 October and expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the 2009 unless such authority is renewed prior to Meeting of the Company in 2009 save that the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted such time save that the Company may make Company may before such expiry make offers or as the Articles of Association of the Company in contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the agreements which would or might require relevant substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of securities to be allotted after such expiry and Articles of Association.
such authority which will or may be executed notwithstanding such expiry the Board may allot wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or and may purchase ordinary shares in pursuance agreements as if the authority conferred by this Resolution had not expired.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 105 Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting continued The following information is given in support of the Boards he has been the Chairman of the Audit Committee since Explanation of Resolutions proposal for the election or re-election as appropriate of January 2004.
He is also a member of the Nomination Ordinary Business these Directors: and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
He is a Director Ordinary Resolutions of Premier Farnell plc and Creston plc.
He was formerly Peter Redfern Group Chief Executive Resolution 1: To receive the annual accounts Group Finance Director of Hanson, the conglomerate, until Pete Redfern joined the Board on 3 July 2007 upon English Company law requires the Directors to lay the its demerger and subsequently Group Chief Executive of completion of the merger between Taylor Woodrow and annual accounts of the Company for the year ended Hanson Plc, the international building materials Company, George Wimpey the Merger, when he was appointed 31 December 2007 and the reports of the Directors and a Non Executive Director of BPB Plc.
Group Chief Executive of the Company.
He is a member and Auditors before a general meeting of the Company.
The Board confirms that each of the Directors proposed of the Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend for election or re-election have recently been subject to Committees.
He brings to the Company a wide range The Directors recommend the payment of a final formal performance evaluation, details of which are set of experience as a leader of a major housebuilder in the dividend of 10.25 pence per share in respect of the year out in the Corporate Governance Report, and that each UK and overseas.
His previous experience includes the ended 31 December 2007.
If approved at the Annual continues to demonstrate commitment and to be an successive roles of Finance Director, Managing Director General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 July effective member of the Board.
and Chief Executive of George Wimpeys UK housing 2008 to shareholders who are on the Register of business.
Prior to joining the Group, he was Finance Resolution 10: Re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche Members at the close of business on 23 May 2008.
LLP Deloitte as auditors of the Company and Dividend Re-Investment Plan Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde Independent authorisation of the Audit Committee to fix their The Company has a Dividend Re-Investment Plan Non Executive Director remuneration on behalf of the Board.
the DRI Plan which is administered by the DRI Plan Brenda Dean was appointed a Non Executive Director In accordance with English Company law, the Company Administrator, Capita IRG Trustees Limited, which is upon completion of the Merger.
She is a member of the is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
The DRI Plan offers shareholders the Committees.
She is a member of the House of Lords therefore being proposed that the auditors are appointed opportunity to elect to invest cash dividends received and is active in a number of public areas.
She is from the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting on their ordinary shares, in purchasing further ordinary Chairman of the New Covent Garden Market Authority, until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which shares of the Company.
These shares would be bought a member of the House of Lords Appointments accounts are laid before shareholders.
in the market, on competitive dealing terms.
Commission and a Non Executive Director of Dawson During 2007, following the Merger, a competitive Holdings PLC.
She was previously a Non Executive Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRI Plan tender for future external audit work was carried out Director of George Wimpey Plc.
and the actions required to participate in it are available as described in the Corporate Governance Report.
on the Companys website www.
com or Anthony Reading MBE Independent Non This resulted in Deloitte being confirmed as external on request from our Registrar, Capita Registrars.
The Board recommends the Executive Director re-appointment of Deloitte as the Companys auditors Resolutions 3 to 9: Election of Directors Tony Reading was appointed a Non Executive Director and also seeks shareholders authority for the Audit The current Articles of Association provide that: upon completion of the Merger.
He is Chairman of the Committee to determine on behalf of the Board the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit any Director appointed since the previous Annual remuneration of Deloitte for their services.
He was previously a General Meeting shall retire from office and may Director of Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Chief The Board has adopted a procedure governing the seek election: Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA, and a Non Executive appointment of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, each year the nearest whole number to one third but Director of George Wimpey Plc.
He is a Non Executive details of which are given in the Corporate Governance not exceeding one third, of the Board of Directors Director of The Laird Group Plc, Spectris Plc and e2v Report.
Details of non-audit services performed by Deloitte excluding Directors appointed since the previous Technologies plc.
in 2007 are given on page 68 of the Report and Accounts.
Annual General Meeting are required to retire from Ian Sutcliffe Executive Director office by rotation and may seek re-election.
Resolution 11: Authority to allot shares Ian Sutcliffe was appointed Chief Executive, Taylor The Board wishes to renew the existing authority to allot In addition, the Combined Code on Corporate Wimpey UK upon completion of the Merger with George relevant securities under the provisions of Section 80 of Governance requires each Director to seek Wimpey.
He is a member of the Corporate Responsibility the Companies Act 1985.
The authority would apply for re-appointment at least every three years.
He previously held a number of senior roles the period commencing on the passing of this Resolution for Shell Oil, including Vice President Retail, and was The following Directors will therefore retire from office, and ending at the Annual General Meeting of the Managing Director of George Wimpeys UK housing and all being eligible, will offer themselves for election Company in 2009.
It is proposed to authorise the Board business.
or re-election as appropriate : to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum of 87,963,850 in nominal value equivalent to 351,855,400 ordinary David Williams Independent Non Executive Director 1 Peter Redfern, Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading, shares, representing approximately 33.3 per cent of the and Senior Independent Director Ian Sutcliffe and David Williams all appointed by existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company David Williams was appointed a Non Executive Director the Board since the last Annual General Meeting: excluding 102,732,927 treasury shares as at the close and designated as the Senior Independent Director upon 2 Peter Johnson retires by rotation in accordance of business on 26 February 2008.
The Company held completion of the Merger.
He is a member of the Audit, with the Articles of Association and seeks re-election: 102,732,927 shares in treasury representing Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He was approximately 9.7 per cent of the issued ordinary share Finance Director of Bunzl plc until January 2006 and a Non 3 Andrew Dougal retires in accordance with the capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at Executive Director of George Wimpey Plc.
He is a Non Combined Code and seeks re-election.
the close of business on 26 February 2008.
The Board Executive Director of DP World Limited Dubai, Meggitt Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal, Anthony Reading and has no present intention of exercising the power which PLC, Mondi PLC and Tullow Oil plc.
David Williams are Non Executive Directors.
The Board such authority would confer.
Peter Johnson Group Finance Director has reviewed and re-affirmed that it considers all the Special Resolutions Peter Johnson has been Finance Director of the Company Non Executive Directors to be independent in character since his appointment in November 2002.
He is an Resolution 12: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights and judgment.
experienced financial executive with a strong background The Board wishes to renew the existing authority Details of Directors service contracts, remuneration in financial services and property investment, in both the permitting the Board to allot equity securities for cash for and interests in the Companys shares and other UK and North America.
He is also a Non Executive the purpose of a rights issue, open offer or any other presecurities are given in the Directors Remuneration Director of Shanks Group plc and Oriel Securities Limited.
emptive offer including the sale of any ordinary shares Report to shareholders on pages 46 to 55 of the held in treasury to shareholders and otherwise up to Report and Accounts.
Biographical information Andrew Dougal Independent Non Executive Director 14,478,725 in nominal value equivalent to 57,914,900 concerning each Director is on pages 38 and 39 Andrew Dougal has been a Non Executive Director of the ordinary shares.
This represents approximately 4.99 per of the Report and Accounts.
com cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at Companies Act.
Section 241A of the Companies Act The Committee concluded that a new Taylor Wimpey the close of business on 26 February 2008.
The authority requires the Company to submit the report to Performance Share Plan and Taylor Wimpey Share would also enable the Board in the event of a rights issue, shareholders for their approval by way of an ordinary Option Plan together the Plans should be introduced.
open offer or other pre-emptive offer to make resolution for its approval to be put to shareholders and The Plans have been designed to deliver a common and adjustments to deal with overseas shareholders, voted on at a general meeting of the Company before flexible long term incentive framework across the merged fractional entitlements and other legal or practical which the annual accounts for the financial year are to be business that clearly aligns senior executive reward with problems.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of laid.
The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 46 the interests of shareholders using not only measures of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009. to 55 of the Report and Accounts.
The Board considers external value creation but also critical internal financial The Board has no present intention of exercising the that appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part measures of shareholder return.
authority which such a Resolution would confer.
in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
Awards may be granted to senior executives over shares The vote on the Remuneration Report has advisory worth up to 300% of their base salaries in any financial Resolution 13: Authority to make market purchases status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall year under each Plan.
For Executive Directors that of shares remuneration packages and is not specific to individual annual limit is 200% for each Plan subject to the Given the uncertainty of the UK housing market, the levels of remuneration.
discretion of the Committee in exceptional circumstances Board has decided to temporarily suspend the buyback to award up to 300% as referred to in the Appendices.
Resolution 15: Authority to make political donations programme until conditions improve.
As indicated at The maximum expected value of awards under both In order to comply with its obligations under the the time of our preliminary results on 6 March 2008, the Plans combined in any financial year for Executive Companies Act 2006 and to avoid any inadvertent Board will continue to review the phasing and pace of Directors will not exceed the expected value of a Taylor infringement of the Companies Act 2006, the Board the buyback programme in light of market conditions.
Wimpey Performance Share Plan Award of 200% of wishes to renew its existing authority for a general level Accordingly, the Board wishes to renew its existing salary face value.
The extent that these shares vest will of donation.
Resolution 15 seeks to renew the existing authority to purchase its ordinary shares in the market.
depend on the Companys performance over a threeauthority for the Company to make political donations Any purchases under the authority would be made in year period.
The Companies Act 2006 one or more tranches and would be limited in aggregate requires this authority to be divided into three heads to 10 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue at the close The Directors are therefore seeking authority to adopt with a separate amount specified as permitted for each.
The authority will the Plans, whose principal terms are summarised in We have specified an amount not exceeding 250,000 enable the Company to continue with the share buyback Appendices 1 and 2.
The Directors are also seeking the for each head of the authority, meaning that Resolution programme announced on 6 August 2007 as and when power to do all things that they consider necessary to 15 would authorise the Company and its subsidiaries the Board determines that it is appropriate to do so.
implement the Plans, including the ability to adopt together to incur expenditure make donations of up Since the announcement of the programme, the further plans based on them in order to grant awards to 750,000 in aggregate.
In accordance with the Company has purchased a total of 94,799,880 shares to employees outside the UK but subject to the same Companies Act 2006, Resolution 15 extends approval for an aggregate consideration of 249,989,801. individual and aggregate limits.
to all of the Companys subsidiaries.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the Documents available for inspection This authority will last until the earlier of 16 July 2009 and authority would not exceed 105 per cent of the average of Copies of the rules of the Plans may be inspected as the conclusion of the Companys Annual General the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary noted on page 111.
Meeting in 2009, unless renewal was sought by further shares for the five business days immediately preceding resolution at that meeting.
Shares purchased pursuant to Special Resolution these authorities will be held as treasury shares, which the Resolution 18: Adoption of new articles of association The Company and the Group have not made any Company can re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, and It is proposed in Resolution 18 to adopt new articles of donations to political parties since the resolution passed provides the Company with additional flexibility in the association the New Articles in order to update the at the previous Annual General Meeting.
It is not our management of its capital base.
The total number of Companys current articles of association the Current policy to do so in the future and we have no present shares held as treasury shall not at any one time exceed Articles primarily to take account of changes in English intention of making any significant political donations in 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
Company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006. the UK.
Nevertheless, the Companies Act 2006 defines Accordingly, any shares bought back over the 10 per cent political organisations very widely and, as a result, in The principal changes introduced in the New Articles limit will be cancelled.
Following the purchases made certain circumstances, donations made for charitable are summarised in Appendix 3.
Other changes, which pursuant to the shareholder authority granted on 29 May or similar purposes may now be treated as a donation are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also 2007, the Company currently holds a total of 102,732,927 to a political organisation.
For example, a donation to a some more minor changes which merely reflect changes shares in treasury representing 9.7 per cent of its issued humanitarian charity which operates as a political lobby, made by the Companies Act 2006 are not noted in the share capital.
sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees Appendix.
The New Articles showing all the changes to fulfiling public duties and payments to industry The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted representative bodies may constitute a donation to shares outstanding as at the close of business on on page 111. a political organisation within the current definitions.
26 February 2008 was 23,667,896, representing By Order of the Board approximately 2.2 per cent of the issued ordinary Details of charitable donations appear on page 41 of the share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares Report and Accounts.
as at that date and approximately 2.3 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital following any Resolutions 16 and 17: Adoption of the Taylor Wimpey exercise in full of this authority to make market purchases.
Performance Share Plan and the Taylor Wimpey Share Option Plan At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 2 May The Remuneration Committee has recently carried out 2007, shareholders authorised the purchase of up to a thorough review of executive remuneration in order James Jordan 59,415,008 shares.
At the Companys Extraordinary to ensure that, following the Merger, long term incentive Group Company Secretary and General Counsel General Meeting on 29 May 2007, shareholders arrangements are both internally aligned and are effective Taylor Wimpey plc authorised an increase of a further 55,276,873 shares, in supporting the achievement of the Companys 80 New Bond Street aggregating 114,691,881 shares.
London W1S 1SB Special Business 5 March 2008 In conducting the review the Committee has been Ordinary Resolutions mindful of changes in the external environment and Registered in England and Wales Resolution 14: Approval of the Directors Remuneration corporate governance good practice since the inception Registration No.
296805 of the existing Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey Report for the year ended 31 December 2007 long term incentive arrangements.
During the review the The Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended Committee was advised by independent remuneration 31 December 2007 has been prepared in accordance consultants Mercer.
with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 107 Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting continued discretionary share plan operated by any Company in the injury Appendix 1 Taylor Wimpey Performance Group in the previous 10 years excluding any rights Share Plan TW Performance Share Plan the Company or business in which the participant is which have lapsed or been forfeited under such plans Introduction employed ceasing to be part of the Group would exceed 5% of the Companys issued ordinary The TW Performance Share Plan will be administered share capital at the time.
other reasons, at the discretion of the Committee by the Remuneration Committee the Committee of the Companys Board of Directors the Board.
The The above limits include new issue Shares and treasury then a part of the participants award will vest, which will be TW Performance Share Plan provides for the Committee Shares but not Shares purchased on the market through determined by the Committee depending on the Companys to grant conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the an employee benefit trust.
performance and the proportion of the performance period Company Shares and phantom awards, which entitle which has elapsed at the date of cessation.
Vesting of awards and performance conditions the participants to cash payments equivalent to the Awards will normally vest at the end of a performance Corporate events market value of a specified number of Shares on the period of not less than three years, as soon as the In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or vesting of the awards.
No consideration is payable by the Committee has determined the extent to which the voluntary winding up of the Company other than an participant either for the grant or the vesting of awards.
applicable performance conditions have been met.
internal corporate reorganisation, all awards will vest Eligibility immediately.
The part of each award which vests will For the first awards granted under the TW Performance Awards may only be made to Executive Directors or be determined by the Committee depending on the Share Plan to Executive Directors, the proportion of each other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries Companys underlying financial performance and the award which vests will depend on two measures of the the Group, selected at the discretion of the Committee.
proportion of the performance period which has elapsed.
Timing of grants In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, Up to half of the Shares subject to the award will vest The Committee may grant awards within 42 days awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over depending on the Companys total shareholder return of the approval of the TW Performance Share Plan by shares in a new holding Company unless the Committee TSR over a three-year period compared with two shareholders or following the announcement date of the decides that awards should vest on the basis which groups of companies: Companys annual or half-yearly results.
The Committee would apply in the case of a takeover.
may also grant awards at other times, where there are The following 12 industry peer companies: Barratt Variation of share capital exceptional circumstances which it considers justify the Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Group, Bovis Homes In the event of any variation of the Companys share granting of awards.
Group, Galliford Try, Kier Group, Marshalls, Persimmon, capital, a demerger or payment of a special dividend, Redrow, SIG, Travis Perkins and Wolseley No awards may be granted more than 10 years after or such other circumstances as the Committee consider The companies which comprise the FTSE 100 index the approval of the TW Performance Share Plan by appropriate, the Committee may make such adjustment at the start of the performance period shareholders.
as it considers fair and reasonable to the number of Shares subject to an award.
Equal weighting will be given to each comparator group.
Individual grant limit The proportion of this portion of the award which vests Except in circumstances which the Committee, after Participants rights will be determined according to the following table: consulting the Board, considers to be exceptional, an Awards are not transferable, except to a participants individual may not be granted awards in any financial legal personal representatives on the participants death.
Companys Proportion of this year over Shares having a market value at the award TSR ranking portion of the award vesting Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until date in excess of 300% of the individuals annual base Below median 0% the awards have vested and the participants have salary 200% in the case of Executive Directors.
However, at the discretion of the Median 25% The maximum expected value of awards under both Committee, participants may receive a payment in cash Between median and the TW Performance Share Plan and the TW Share and or Shares on or shortly following the vesting of their Option Plan combined in any financial year for Executive 75th percentile 25%-100% pro rata awards of an amount equivalent to the dividends that Directors will not exceed the expected value of a TW would have been paid on those Shares between the time 75th percentile or higher 100% Performance Share Plan award of 200% of salary when the awards were granted and the vesting date.
Up to half of the Shares subject to the award will vest Any Shares allotted when an award vests will rank depending on the Companys earnings per share EPS The Remuneration Committee will retain discretion equally with Shares then in issue, except for rights arising growth over a three-year period compared with the to determine in exceptional circumstances such as by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
increase in the Retail Prices Index RPI determined attracting new hires an award quantum for Executive Awards do not count as part of participants pensionable according to the following table: Directors in excess of the above maximum quantum.
salaries for the purpose of employers contributions to Any enhanced awards made pursuant to such discretion Companys annualised any Group pension schemes or other benefits.
will not exceed 300% base salary.
EPS growth in excess of Proportion of this annualised RPI increase portion of the award vesting Alterations to the TW Performance Share Plan Share capital limits The Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, Awards may be granted over new issue Shares, treasury Below 3 percentage points 0% may at any time amend the provisions of the Performance Shares or Shares purchased on the market through an 3 percentage points 25% Share Plan in any respect, provided that the prior approval employee benefit trust.
of Shareholders is obtained for any amendments that Between 3 and 6 No award may be granted under the TW Performance are to the benefit of participants in respect of the rules percentage points 25%-100% pro rata Share Plan if the maximum number of Shares issuable governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall under the award, together with the maximum number of 6 percentage points or more 100% limits on the issue of Shares, the basis for determining a Shares issuable or issued pursuant to awards or options participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares The Committee may review the performance conditions for granted under the TW Performance Share Plan or any to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
each grant of awards and may apply different conditions to other employee share plan operated by any Company in The requirement to obtain the prior approval of future awards, provided they remain no less challenging the Group in the previous 10 years excluding any rights shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor and are aligned with the interests of shareholders.
which have lapsed or been forfeited under such plans alteration made to benefit the administration of the TW would exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary Cessation of employment Performance Share Plan, to take account of a change share capital at the time.
As a general rule, an award will lapse if a participant in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, ceases to be employed within the Group before the No award may be granted under the TW Performance exchange control, securities law or regulatory treatment vesting date.
However, if a participant leaves Share Plan if the maximum number of Shares issuable for participants or for any Company in the Group.
employment because of: under the award, together with the maximum number of Overseas plans Shares issuable or issued pursuant to awards or options the participants death The Board may at any time, without further shareholder granted under the Performance Share Plan or any other approval, establish further plans in overseas territories.
com Any such plan must be similar to the TW Performance issuable or issued pursuant to awards or options granted Risk free rate means UK Government gilt yields as at Share Plan but may be modified to take account of local under the TW Share Option Plan or any other employee the balance sheet date.
tax, exchange control, securities law or regulations.
Any share plan operated by any Company in the Group in the Shares made available under such plans shall be previous 10 years would exceed 10% of the Companys The Committee may review the performance conditions for counted towards the limits on individual and overall issued ordinary share capital at the time.
each grant of awards and may apply different conditions to participation in the TW Performance Share Plan.
future awards, provided they remain no less challenging No award may be granted under the TW Share Option and are aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Plan if the maximum number of Shares issuable under Appendix 2 Taylor Wimpey Share Option Plan the award, together with the maximum number of Shares Exercise period TW Share Option Plan issuable or issued pursuant to awards or options granted Awards may normally be exercised between the vesting Introduction under the TW Share Option Plan, or any other date and the expiry date, which may be no later than the The TW Share Option Plan will be administered by the discretionary share plan operated by any Company in the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
Remuneration Committee the Committee of the Group in the previous 10 years, would exceed 5% of the Companys Board of Directors the Board.
The TW Cessation of employment Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time.
Share Option Plan provides for the Committee to grant As a general rule, an award will lapse if a participant ceases The above limits include new issue Shares and treasury options over Ordinary Shares in the Company Shares to be employed within the Group before the vesting date.
Shares but not Shares purchased on the market through and phantom options, which entitle the participants to However, if a participant leaves employment because of: an employee benefit trust.
cash payments with a value equivalent to the excess of the participants death the market value of a specified number of Shares on the Exercise price exercise date over the exercise price.
No consideration is disability The exercise price per Share payable by a participant payable by the participant for the grant of options or on exercise of an option, and used to determine the injury phantom options.
value payable on exercise of a phantom option, may not the Company or business in which the participant is The TW Share Option Plan also allows for the grant of be less than the market price of a Share on the dealing employed ceasing to be part of the Group approved share options under a schedule to the rules day preceding the grant date or, if the Committee so which is intended to be approved by HM Revenue & decides, the average of the prices for the three other reasons, at the discretion of the Committee Customs under Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings preceding dealing days.
then a part of the participants award will become and Pensions Act 2003 as a company share plan.
Vesting of awards and performance conditions exercisable, which will be determined by the Committee Awards will normally become exercisable at the end of a depending on the Companys performance and the Eligibility performance period of not less than three years, as soon proportion of the performance period which has elapsed Awards may only be made to Executive Directors or as the Committee has determined the extent to which at the date of cessation.
other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries the applicable performance conditions have been met.
the Group, selected at the discretion of the Corporate events Committee.
For the first awards granted under the TW Share Option In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or Plan to Executive Directors, the proportion of each award Timing of grants voluntary winding up of the Company other than an which vests will depend on the excess of the Companys The Committee may grant awards within 42 days of the internal corporate reorganisation, all awards will vest return on capital employed ROCE in the last year of approval of the TW Share Option Plan by shareholders or immediately.
The part of each award which becomes the performance period over the Companys cost of following the announcement date of the Companys annual exercisable will be determined by the Committee capital COC, determined according to the following or half-yearly results.
The Committee may also grant awards depending on the Companys underlying financial table: at other times, where there are exceptional circumstances performance and the proportion of the performance period which it considers justify the granting of awards.
Alternatively, with the agreement of Companys ROCE in excess Proportion of the acquiring Company, awards may be replaced with of the cost of capital award vesting No awards may be granted more than 10 years after the equivalent new awards over shares in that Company.
approval of the TW Share Option Plan by shareholders.
Below the cost of capital 0% In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, Equal to the cost of capital 25% Individual grant limit awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over An individual may not be granted awards in any financial Between the cost of shares in a new holding Company unless the Committee year over Shares having a market value at the award decides that awards should vest on the basis which capital and 3 percentage date in excess of 300% of the individuals annual base would apply in the case of a takeover.
points over the cost of capital 25%-100% pro rata salary 200% in the case of executive directors.
3 or more percentage points Variation of share capital The maximum expected value of awards under both the over the cost of capital 100% In the event of any variation of the Companys share TW Performance Share Plan and the TW Share Option capital, a demerger or payment of a special dividend, or Plan combined in any financial year for Executive ROCE will be calculated based on the Companys such other circumstances as the Committee considers Directors will not exceed the expected value of a TW earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
appropriate the Committee may make such adjustment Performance Share Plan award of 200% of salary.
as it considers fair and reasonable to the number of COC will be calculated based on the following formula: The Remuneration Committee will retain discretion Shares subject to an award and the exercise price.
to determine in exceptional circumstances such as risk free rate equity risk premium 1 tax rate x Participants rights attracting new hires an award quantum for Executive average operating assets employed average net debt Awards are not transferable, except to a participants Directors in excess of the above maximum quantum.
net interest cost legal personal representatives on the participants death.
Any enhanced awards made pursuant to such discretion average operating assets employed will not exceed 300% base salary.
Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the Equity risk premium means the premium published awards have been exercised and the participants have Under current statutory limits, a participant may only hold in Bloomberg or such other recognised source to be received their Shares.
No dividend equivalents will be approved share options over 30,000 worth of Shares determined by the Remuneration Committee as at payable in respect of the period before exercise.
valued at the grant date at any time.
the balance sheet date Any Shares allotted when an award is exercised will rank Share capital limits Operating assets means capital employed excluding equally with Shares then in issue, except for rights arising Awards may be granted over new issue Shares, treasury intangibles as set out in the Companys latest by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Shares or Shares purchased on the market through an published annual accounts employee benefit trust.
Awards do not count as part of participants pensionable Net debt means borrowings less cash or cash salaries for the purpose of employers contributions to No award may be granted under the TW Share Option equivalents any Group pension schemes or other benefits.
Plan if the maximum number of Shares issuable under Net interest cost means interest on borrowings less the award, together with the maximum number of Shares interest received Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 109 Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting continued Alterations to the TW Share Option Plan be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or, Insolvency Act 1986 confers powers on the liquidator The Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the which would enable it to do what is envisaged by the may at any time amend the provisions of the TW Share meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the Current Articles.
Option Plan in any respect, provided that the prior taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being 9.
Notice of refusal to register transfer approval of shareholders is obtained for any permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
The New The Current Articles contain a provision that if the Board amendments that are to the advantage of participants Articles give the Directors discretion, when calculating refuses to register a transfer of a share it shall, within two in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on the time limits, to exclude weekend and bank holidays.
months after the date on which the transfer was lodged participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares, Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each with the Company, send notice of the refusal to the the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a transferee.
This provision is being removed because this and the terms of, the Shares to be acquired and the different Share held by the shareholder.
The New Articles requirement is contained in the Companies Act 2006. adjustment of awards.
reflect all of these new provisions.
The Current Articles allow the Directors to refuse to The requirement to obtain the prior approval of 5.
Conflicts of interest register a transfer of shares without giving reasons.
In shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general relation to share transfers taking place on or after 6 April alteration made to benefit the administration of the duties which largely codify the existing law but with some 2008, the Companies Act 2006 requires the Board to TW Share Option Plan, to take account of a change in changes.
Under the Companies Act, from 1 October give reasons for any refusal to register a transfer.
This legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, New Articles have been amended to reflect this.
exchange control, securities law or regulatory treatment or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, for participants or for any Company in the Group.
or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
Chairmans casting vote The requirement is very broad and could apply, for The Current Articles provide that in the case of an Overseas plans example, if a Director becomes a director of another equality of votes on a poll or a show of hands at a The Board may at any time, without further shareholder company or a trustee of another organisation.
general meeting, the Chairman of that meeting will have approval, establish further plans in overseas territories.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public a second or casting vote in addition to any other vote he Any such plan must be similar to the TW Share Option companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, may have.
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the Plan but may be modified to take account of local tax, where appropriate, where the Articles of Association concept of the Chairmans casting vote and the New exchange control, securities law or regulations.
Any contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act Articles have been amended to reflect this.
Shares made available under such plans shall be 2006 also allows the Articles of Association to contain counted towards the limits on individual and overall 11.
Corporate representatives other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of participation in the TW Share Option Plan.
The provision in the Current Articles relating to interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give requirements for the appointment of corporate the directors authority to approve such situations and to Appendix 3 representatives has been removed as these requirements include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to Explanatory notes of principal changes to are contained in the Companies Act 2006. be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
the Companys articles of association 12.
Retirement by rotation There are safeguards which will apply when directors 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions The Current Articles relating to retirement by rotation decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate have been combined and amended.
The concept of one conflict.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are third of the Directors retiring from office at each annual matter being considered will be able to take the relevant in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
This is general meeting has been removed because it is no decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the in line with the approach advocated by the Government longer appropriate in view of the Combined Code directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in requirement for directors to offer themselves for rewill be most likely to promote the Companys success.
Certain examples of such election every three years.
It is a principle of the The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions provisions include provisions as to the form of Combined Code that all Directors should be required to when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
resolutions, the requirement to keep accounting records submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and and provisions regarding the period of notice required It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain at least every three years.
The New Articles reflect the to convene general meetings.
The main changes made provisions relating to confidential information, attendance Combined Code guidance.
to reflect this approach are detailed below.
at board meetings and availability of board papers to 13.
Electronic and web communications protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of 2.
Form of resolution Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for force in January 2007 enable companies to provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special communicate with members by electronic and or the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, website communications.
The New Articles continue to Directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special allow communications to members in electronic form the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards resolution is also effective.
This provision is being and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively.
removed as the concept of extraordinary resolutions advantage of the new provisions relating to website has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
Notice of board meetings communications.
Before the Company can communicate Further, the remainder of the provision is reflected in Under the Current Articles, when a Director is abroad with a member by means of website communication, the full in the Companies Act 2006. he can request that notice of Directors meetings are relevant member must be asked individually by the sent to him at a specified address and if he does not Company to agree that the Company may send or 3.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings do so he is not entitled to receive notice while he is supply documents or information to him by means of a The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the away.
This provision has been removed, as modern website, and the Company must either have received a convening of general meetings and the length of notice communications mean that there may be no particular positive response or have received no response within required to convene general meetings are being removed obstacle to giving notice to a Director who is abroad.
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which in the New Articles because the relevant matters are the request was sent.
The Company will notify the provided for in the Companies Act 2006.
Records to be kept member either in writing, or by other permitted means an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special The provision in the Current Articles requiring the Board when a relevant document or information is placed on resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas to keep accounting records has been removed as this the website and a member can always request a hard previously 21 days notice was required.
requirement is contained in the Companies Act 2006. copy version of the document or information.
Distribution of assets otherwise than in cash 14.
General Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to The Current Articles contain provisions dealing with the Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current distribution of assets in kind in the event of the Company language into the New Articles.
Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
These provisions have been time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy removed in the New Articles on the grounds that a Action to be taken appointment have been altered by the Companies Act provision about the powers of liquidators is a matter Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should for insolvency law rather than for articles and that the Meeting, you are requested to complete the enclosed 110 www.
com form of proxy and return it to the Companys Registrars, Please bring with you the accompanying attendance on a poll and the other corporate representatives will Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, card and retain it until the end of the Meeting.
It will give voting directions to that designated corporate Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU as soon as possible and in authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred any event so as to be received no later than 48 hours will help us to register your attendance without delay.
to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered before the time appointed for the Annual General Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate Registration will be available from 9:30 am.
For the safety Meeting, that is no later than 11:00 am on 15 April 2008. representatives www.
uk for further details of and comfort of those attending the Meeting, large bags, The completion and submission of a form of proxy will this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not not prevent you from attending and voting in person if representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed be allowed into the building.
The Meeting will commence at 11:00 am and light Your vote is important.
The Board requests that all Notes: refreshments will be available from 10:30 am and also shareholders exercise their right to vote.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting after the conclusion of the Meeting.
may appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of him Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the Annual You are advised to bring your Annual Report with you to or her.
A member may appoint more than one proxy General Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to the Meeting so that you can refer to it as necessary.
in relation to the Meeting provided that each proxy is attend and vote in their place.
A proxy need not be a appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different shareholder of the Company.
The completion and return There is wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders share or shares held by that member.
The proxy need of a form of proxy does not prevent a shareholder from who require it or those with reduced mobility.
However not be a member of the Company.
attending and voting at the meeting in person.
To vote, attendees are strongly advised to bring their own carers you can either: to assist with their general mobility around the venue.
A form of proxy sent electronically that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
- register your vote on-line at www.
com: An induction loop system operates in the meeting room.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the - complete and return the enclosed form of proxy: Directions to the venue can be found on the back of your Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies attendance card.
- use the service provided by CRESTCo for members that only those shareholders registered in the Register of of CREST: If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may Members of the Company at 6.00 pm on 15 April 2008 appoint either the Chairman of the Meeting or someone shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General - attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in else of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in person: or the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
Changes to entries on the - have your proxy attend the Annual General Meeting on You are advised to use the enclosed form of proxy to relevant Register of Members after that time shall be your behalf.
appoint a proxy or to vote electronically as outlined disregarded in determining the rights of any person to above and in more detail on the enclosed form of proxy.
attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
When submitting a form of proxy, you can cast your vote For or Against the resolutions or use the Vote A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and iv.
Copies of the following documents are available for Witheld option.
The outcome of voting on all resolutions vote on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or inspection at the registered office of the Company will be announced at the Annual General Meeting and to her.
during usual business hours on weekdays Saturdays the market and published on our website at and public holidays excepted up to and including the At the Meeting, the proxy can act for the member he www.
com date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place or she represents.
This includes the right to join in or of the meeting 15 minutes prior to and until the close Shareholders whose shares are held in CREST may use demand a poll, and to vote on a show of hands.
The of the meeting: the CREST electronic appointment service to retrieve proxy is also valid for any adjournment of the Meeting.
resolutions and submit proxy instructions.
Please refer a Register of the interests of each director in the shares Please tick the appropriate box alongside each resolution to the CREST manual for further information on CREST and other securities of the Company: on the form of proxy to indicate whether you wish your procedures, limitations and system timings.
votes to be cast for, or against, or whether you wish b Executive Directors contracts of service: to withhold your vote from, that resolution.
Unless you Beneficial holders of shares with information rights c Non Executive Directors letters of appointment: give specific instructions on how to vote on a particular Section 325 Companies Act 2006 the Act does not resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, confer on persons nominated to receive information d Copies of the rules of the TW Performance Share Plan either to vote for or against that resolution or to rights under Section 146 of the Act, the right to appoint and the TW Share Option Plan: withhold your vote.
Such persons who have received a copy of this e Copies of the current Articles of Association of the notice of meeting are hereby informed, in accordance Before posting the form to the Registrar, please check Company and a draft of the proposed amended with Section 149 2 of the Act, that they may have a that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, Articles of Association of the Company are available right under an agreement with the registered member by either or any one of you may sign it.
for inspection at the registered office of the Company whom they were nominated, to be appointed, or to have and at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill As stated above, the forms of proxy must be received someone else appointed, as a proxy for the Annual Row, London EC1Y 8YY in each case during usual in the offices of the Registrar no later than 11:00 am on General Meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not business hours on weekdays Saturdays and public 15 April 2008.
Any form of proxy received after this time wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an holidays excepted up to and including the date of will be void.
agreement to give instructions to the member as to the the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the exercise of voting rights.
Such persons should contact In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives meeting 15 minutes prior to and until the close of the registered member by whom they were nominated at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting.
in respect of these arrangements.
the Meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has v. A copy of the full Annual Report and Financial appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate Recommendation Statements for the year ended 31 December 2007, representative with instructions to vote on a poll in Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions including the Remuneration Report referred to in accordance with the directions of all the other corporate to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in Resolution 14, is also available on our website representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then the best interests of shareholders as a whole and www.
on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Each Director directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote will be doing so in respect of his or her own beneficial or withhold a vote as corporate representative in shareholdings.
accordance with those directions: and ii if more than Attendance and voting one corporate representative for the same corporate As a shareholder of Taylor Wimpey plc, you have the shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the As at 5 March 2008 the Companys issued share capital Meeting as a corporate representative, a designated consisted of 1,158,299,201 ordinary shares carrying one corporate representative will be nominated, from those vote each.
The total voting rights of the Company as at 5 corporate representatives who attend, who will vote March 2008 were 1,055,566,274.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 111
