Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Business Review Governance Statements Information Notes to the financial statements taxable profits as disclosed in note 6 and in forecasting contingent 1 Accounting policies deferred consideration payments payable in the future for acquisitions Basis of preparation as disclosed in notes 21 and 31 are considered key sources of These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Restatement of prior year comparatives Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations The group has modified the definition of its primary reporting segments endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the in note 2 to reflect the creation of the Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The group now reports three regions: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Europe, North America and ALM.
Previously, Middle East & Africa was cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale included in Europe and Latin America was shown as part of the investments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
Prior year comparatives have been restated for consistency.
Changes in accounting policy Basis of consolidation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of The annual group financial statements consolidate the results of these financial statements and set out below have been Taylor Nelson Sofres plc the company, its subsidiary undertakings consistently applied to all years presented.
and proportionate share of jointly controlled entities, and incorporate the IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure, post-acquisition results of its share of associates for each financial year.
which introduces new disclosure requirements relating to financial Subsidiaries instruments, became effective in 2007 and has been applied Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the group.
Control exists for the first time in these financial statements.
when the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the The following standards, amendments and interpretations, financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits which also became effective in 2007, have been applied but from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that have no significant effect on amounts recognised or disclosed.
are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The results of all subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed ofIFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share based payments are included in the income statement from the effective date ofIFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives control until the date that control ceases.
The acquisition methodIFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries During 2007, IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations was and adjustments are made if necessary to ensure consistency of published, which modifies certain acquisition accounting principles.
subsidiaries accounting policies with the group.
All intra-group The revised standard is not effective for the group until the year transactions are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
commencing 1 January 2010 and will not alter amounts previously Jointly controlled entities recognised when implemented.
The following amendments and Joint ventures are those entities in which the group holds a long-term interpretations that were also published in 2007 or earlier but are interest and which are jointly controlled by the group and one or not effective until later years, are not expected to have any significant more venturers under a contractual agreement.
The consolidated impacts on the financial statements when implemented, and have financial statements include the groups proportionate share of the not been early adopted by the group.
entities assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and cash flows on IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs not yet endorsed by the EU a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences until IFRS 8 Operating Segments the date that joint control ceases.
The results of joint ventures are IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with group IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements accounting policies.
Unrealised gains or losses on transactions IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes between the group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, of the groups interest.
minimum funding requirements and their interaction Associates No other amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and jointly or published since 1 January 2007 are relevant to the groups operations.
controlled entities, in which the group holds a long-term participating interest and exerts a significant influence but not control.
The groups Significant estimates and assumptions share of profits or losses of associates after interest and taxation is The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally included in the group income statement and the groups share of accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and their net assets, together with goodwill arising on acquisition, is assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities included in the group balance sheet.
The groups share of losses is at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of recognised up to the carrying value of the individual associate, unless revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these the group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, the associate.
The results of associates are adjusted where event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those necessary to ensure consistency with group accounting policies.
In particular, managements assumptions in performing Unrealised gains or losses on transactions between the group and the annual goodwill impairment review as disclosed in note 11, its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest.
in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets against future 60 www.
com Segmental reporting capitalised with the hardware and included within property, plant A segment is a distinguishable component of the group that is engaged and equipment.
Acquired intangible assets comprise software either in providing products or services within a particular economic licences, patents, customer-related assets, trade marks and brands, environment geographic segment or providing products or services measured initially at fair value.
Intangible assets are capitalised that are subject to risks and rewards that are different to other and amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful segments business segment.
Shared costs are charged to segments economic lives as follows: based on arms-length service agreements, or allocated on a basis Patents and licenses 20 years or remaining life if shorter consistent with the consumption of the associated goods or services.
Software and databases Revenue recognition and other assets 5 years or remaining life if shorter Revenue consists of the fair value of the consideration received or receivable on the sale of products and services net of sales tax, rebates Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or and discounts after eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not profits on short-term projects are recognised on the completion of be recoverable.
the project, once the product and the significant risks and rewards Impairment losses of ownership have been transferred to the client.
Costs incurred An impairment loss is recognised equal to the difference between on projects up to completion are included within work-in-progress.
the carrying amount and the recoverable amount of goodwill or an Revenue and profits on long-term or continuous projects are intangible asset, and taken immediately to the income statement.
recognised on the satisfactory completion of each service delivery The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less phase of the project.
Costs incurred on projects are included within cost to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing work-in-progress until completion of each phase.
Amounts invoiced impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there to clients in advance of revenue and profits being recognised are are separately identifiable cash flows.
shown as payments received on account within creditors.
Property, plant and equipment PPE Share based payments PPE is stated at original cost including costs directly attributable The fair value of the equity settled employee share option plans is to acquiring assets or, where appropriate, fair value when acquired, calculated at the date of grant using appropriate models.
In less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where an accordance with IFRS 2 Share Based Payments, the fair value of item of PPE comprises major components having different useful the share option is charged to the income statement over the vesting lives, they are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
Assets under period of the options.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect construction consists of costs directly attributable to purchasing expected and actual levels of option vesting.
and installing PPE ahead of their productive use.
External and Exceptional items internal costs are capitalised to the extent that they enhance future Items are highlighted as exceptional in the income statement economic benefits accruing to the group.
Internal costs are only when separate disclosure is considered helpful in understanding capitalised if they are incremental to the group.
Provisions are made the underlying performance of the business.
and charged to the income statement where the carrying value of assets exceeds their recoverable value to the business.
Bank facility arrangement fees Bank facility arrangement fees are capitalised and charged to the Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less the estimated income statement over the life of the bank facilities.
residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration Freehold land no depreciation given over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net Freehold buildings 33 years assets acquired at the date of acquisition of the subsidiary, joint venture Short leasehold land and buildings term of lease or associate.
Goodwill is considered to have an indefinite life and is Equipment 3-10 years tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in No depreciation is charged on assets under construction until they circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
are brought into use by the business.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
In respect of associates, the carrying amount of the goodwill is included in Finance and operating leases the carrying amount of the investment in the associate.
If the fair value Leases in which the group assumes substantially all the risks and of net assets acquired exceeds the consideration given, then the rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held excess is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying value and depreciated over their useful lives, or the term of the lease if of related goodwill.
Any goodwill previously written off directly to shorter.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the reserves is not included in the gain or loss on disposal.
balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are Intangible assets apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease Costs that are directly associated with the production of software obligation, so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the for internal use in the business are capitalised as an intangible remaining liability.
Rentals under operating leases are charged directly asset.
Software that forms an integral part of related hardware is to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Notes to the financial statements Cash and cash equivalents 1 Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand, bank deposits Inventories work-in-progress available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that Cost includes direct costs incurred on incomplete client projects are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the groups and an appropriate element of attributable overheads.
cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows, and are Pension arrangements shown within borrowings under current liabilities on the balance sheet.
The group operates a number of contributory pension plans.
The majority of employees participate in defined contribution plans that Trade receivables are set up through insurance companies.
Contributions are also Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value reduced by made to personal pension plans at equivalent rates.
Payments in estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Provision for impairment is respect of such current service contributions are charged to the recognised where there is evidence that the full amount of the trade income statement as they fall due.
receivable is not collectible, and is charged to the income statement.
The group also operates a number of defined benefit pension Provisions plans which are accounted for under IAS 19 Employment Benefits.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has Obligations under defined benefit plans are measured at discounted a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it present value by actuaries, while plan assets are recorded at fair is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably recognised separately in the income statement.
Provisions are discounted where the effect is material.
recorded in operating costs and are spread over the working lives Financial assets of employees.
Financing costs are recorded in finance costs and Under IFRS, financial assets are categorised as financial assets held recognised in the years in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, losses are taken directly to reserves in the year in which they arise, held-to-maturity investments, or available for sale financial assets.
the group having taken this option under IAS 19.
This categorisation depends on the purpose for which the Employee share ownership plans investments are acquired and is determined by management at Shares in Taylor Nelson Sofres plc held by the Employee Share initial recognition and then re-evaluated at each reporting date.
Ownership Plan ESOP and the Employee Benefit Trust EBT are Financial assets held for trading and those designated as held at included within equity at cost less provisions for any permanent fair value by management at inception are initially recognised and diminution in value.
Net operating income from the plans is included subsequently measured at fair value through the income statement.
under finance income in the groups consolidated income statement.
Costs of administration are included in the consolidated income Loans and receivables that are not derivative financial assets, with fixed statement as they accrue.
Profits arising on the disposal of shares held or determinable payments and that are not quoted in active markets, by the EBT as a result of the exercise of options are taken to reserves.
are initially recognised and then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised Taxation in the income statement.
Loans and receivables exclude items that The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year as adjusted the group intends to sell immediately or in the short term which are for items that are not taxable or not deductible and takes into account categorised as held for trading and those for which the group may taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the not recover substantially all of its initial investment other than because treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Full of credit deterioration which are categorised as available for sale.
provision is made for the tax effects of these differences.
Taxation is charged to the income statement except to the extent that it relates Financial assets are categorised as held to maturity if the group to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the taxation is has positive intent and ability, from inception, to hold the securities also recognised in equity.
Tax deferred or accelerated by the effect of to their maturity date.
These financial assets have fixed or temporary differences is accounted for to the extent that a transaction determinable payments and a fixed maturity.
Held to maturity or event that has occurred at the balance sheet date gives rise to an financial assets are initially recognised and susequently reported obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in the future.
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, based on changes in carrying value recognised in the income statement.
available evidence, it is probable that suitable taxable profits will arise Financial assets categorised as available for sale are either from which the reversal of the asset can be deducted.
Deferred tax specifically designated in this category or not categorised in any of assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Available for sale assets are initially recognised Dividends and carried at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which changes in exchange rates for monetary items and interest and they are approved by the companys shareholders in general impairment losses recognised in equity until the financial asset is meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised Financial liabilities are stated at fair value adjusted for transaction costs immediately in the income statement, in line with the treatment of attributable to the issue of financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are the underlying hedged transaction.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are revalued of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, or the forecast to reflect the fair value movements on the effective portion of the transaction for a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the hedged risk associated with the financial liability.
The effect of the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included currency element of currency swaps acting as hedges against debt in the initial cost or carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
is reported separately in current and non-current assets and liabilities.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the Derivative financial instruments recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
into the income statement in the same year or years during which the The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement.
However, derivatives that do not qualify Fair value hedge accounting for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
When a derivative instrument is designated as a hedge of the Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value on the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly date the contract is entered into.
Subsequent to initial recognition, probable transaction, the change in fair value of the derivatives for derivative financial instruments categorised as held for trading, that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income gains and losses on re-measurement to fair value are recognised statement, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged immediately in the income statement within administrative expenses asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, Hedge of net investment in foreign operation recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net investment the hedge see hedge accounting policies below.
Derivative financial in foreign entities and of borrowings and other currency instruments instruments are classified as current assets within other receivables designated as hedges of such investment are taken to shareholders or current liabilities within other payables where they are held for equity on consolidation to the extent the hedges are deemed effective.
trading, or have a maturity within twelve months.
Where derivative All other exchange gains or losses are dealt with through the income financial instruments have a maturity greater than twelve months and statement and are included within the groups operating profit.
are designated as in a hedge relationship, they are classified within either non-current assets or non-current liabilities consistent with Foreign currency translation the maturity profile of the underlying hedged items.
Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic The fair value of swaps is the estimated amount that the group environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest and foreign exchange rates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the quoted forward price.
Derivatives embedded within assets and settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end liabilities, which are not closely related to the underlying item, exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in are measured at fair value and accounted for separately.
foreign currencies, are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow or When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or investment hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, exercised, or the entity revokes the designation of the hedge such as available-for-sale investments are included in equity.
relationship but the hedged financial asset or liability remains or forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of all group companies that loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance have a functional currency other than sterling are translated at the rate with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged prevailing at the balance sheet date, and their income and expenses transaction is no longer expected to take place or the underlying are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange hedged financial asset or liability no longer exists, then the differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated recognised immediately in the income statement.
as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, these exchange differences are recognised in the Cash flow hedge accounting income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of a foreign a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and on the derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The are translated at the closing rate.
associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63
