Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Business Review Governance Statements Information Notes to the financial statements taxable profits as disclosed in note 6 and in forecasting contingent 1 Accounting policies deferred consideration payments payable in the future for acquisitions Basis of preparation as disclosed in notes 21 and 31 are considered key sources of These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Restatement of prior year comparatives Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations The group has modified the definition of its primary reporting segments endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the in note 2 to reflect the creation of the Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The group now reports three regions: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Europe, North America and ALM.
Previously, Middle East & Africa was cost convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale included in Europe and Latin America was shown as part of the investments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
Prior year comparatives have been restated for consistency.
Changes in accounting policy Basis of consolidation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of The annual group financial statements consolidate the results of these financial statements and set out below have been Taylor Nelson Sofres plc the company, its subsidiary undertakings consistently applied to all years presented.
and proportionate share of jointly controlled entities, and incorporate the IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure, post-acquisition results of its share of associates for each financial year.
which introduces new disclosure requirements relating to financial Subsidiaries instruments, became effective in 2007 and has been applied Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the group.
Control exists for the first time in these financial statements.
when the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the The following standards, amendments and interpretations, financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits which also became effective in 2007, have been applied but from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that have no significant effect on amounts recognised or disclosed.
are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The results of all subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed ofIFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share based payments are included in the income statement from the effective date ofIFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives control until the date that control ceases.
The acquisition methodIFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries During 2007, IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations was and adjustments are made if necessary to ensure consistency of published, which modifies certain acquisition accounting principles.
subsidiaries accounting policies with the group.
All intra-group The revised standard is not effective for the group until the year transactions are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
commencing 1 January 2010 and will not alter amounts previously Jointly controlled entities recognised when implemented.
The following amendments and Joint ventures are those entities in which the group holds a long-term interpretations that were also published in 2007 or earlier but are interest and which are jointly controlled by the group and one or not effective until later years, are not expected to have any significant more venturers under a contractual agreement.
The consolidated impacts on the financial statements when implemented, and have financial statements include the groups proportionate share of the not been early adopted by the group.
entities assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and cash flows on IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs not yet endorsed by the EU a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences until IFRS 8 Operating Segments the date that joint control ceases.
The results of joint ventures are IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with group IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements accounting policies.
Unrealised gains or losses on transactions IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes between the group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, of the groups interest.
minimum funding requirements and their interaction Associates No other amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and jointly or published since 1 January 2007 are relevant to the groups operations.
controlled entities, in which the group holds a long-term participating interest and exerts a significant influence but not control.
The groups Significant estimates and assumptions share of profits or losses of associates after interest and taxation is The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally included in the group income statement and the groups share of accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and their net assets, together with goodwill arising on acquisition, is assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities included in the group balance sheet.
The groups share of losses is at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of recognised up to the carrying value of the individual associate, unless revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these the group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, the associate.
The results of associates are adjusted where event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those necessary to ensure consistency with group accounting policies.
In particular, managements assumptions in performing Unrealised gains or losses on transactions between the group and the annual goodwill impairment review as disclosed in note 11, its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest.
in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets against future 60 www.
