43 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Revenue Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to customers during the year, excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Where invoices are raised in advance for contracted services, the revenue is spread over the period of the service and deferred income is recognised on the balance sheet.
Colocation revenues arise from the leasing of the Groups infrastructure assets and are recognised on a straightline basis over the period of the contract.
When tout services are required before the colocation services can be provided, revenue from tout contracts is bundled with the related colocation services revenues and the entire amount recognised over the course of the contracts as the services are provided.
Property, plant and equipment The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises their purchase cost, together with the incidental costs of installation and commissioning.
These costs include external consultancy fees and internal costs which are directly and exclusively related to the underlying assets.
Depreciation is calculated from the date an asset becomes available for use, so as to write off the cost of the asset over its expected useful economic life.
The principal periods used for this purpose are: Leasehold improvements 12 years straightline Plant and machinery 12 years straightline Ofce equipment 3 years straightline Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Reinstatement costs At the inception of the lease, the Directors assess the cost of restoring leasehold premises to their original condition at the end of the lease and the likelihood of such costs actually being incurred.
If the likelihood of this liability arising is judged to be probable, the discounted cost of the liability is included in leasehold improvements and is depreciated over the duration of the lease.
The discount arising on the provision is amortised in future years through interest.
If the likelihood of this liability arising is judged to be possible, rather than probable, it is disclosed as a contingent liability.
When assessing the likely duration of the lease and the likelihood of this liability arising, the Directors take into account their contractual and statutory rights to renew or extend the lease terms.
Finance and operating leases Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the benets and risks of ownership of an asset are classied as a finance lease and treated as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are included in property, plant and equipment and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown within obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged against profit in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Leases that are not classied as finance leases are treated as operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.
Benets received by the Group as an incentive to sign the lease are spread on a straightline basis over the lease term, or to the first break if sooner.
Sharebased payments The Group issues equitysettled sharebased payments to certain employees under the terms of the LongTerm Incentive Plans.
Equitysettled sharebased payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined, using the Black Scholes model, at the grant date of equitysettled sharebased payments is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest.
Nonmarket vesting conditions, which for the Group mainly relate to the continual employment of the employee during the vesting period, are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest.
Any market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted.
The options granted to date do not contain any market based vesting condition.
Where the terms and conditions of options are modied before they vest, the increase in the fair value of the options, measured immediately before and after the modication, is also charged to the income statement over the remaining vesting period.
Where equity instruments are granted to persons other than employees, the income statement is charged with the fair value of goods and services received.
To the extent that share options are granted to employees of the Groups subsidiaries, the share option charge is capitalised as part of the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
