46 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Finance costs Finance costs of debt are recognised in the income statement over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred, and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives are recognised initially at fair value and subsequent to initial recognition are revalued at each reporting date.
Amounts payable and receivable on interest rate derivatives are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Where the instrument meets the denition for hedge accounting, movements in fair value of the interest rate swap are taken to reserves.
In all other cases movements are charged or credited to the income statement.
Segment reporting A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
The Group has chosen to present its primary segment with reference to geographical location as this is best felt to describe the different risks and rates of return that the Group is subject to.
Impairment of nonnancial assets The entity assesses at each reporting date whether an asset may be impaired.
If any such indicator exists, the entity tests for impairment by estimating the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value of an asset an impairment loss is required.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates made by management based on the best available evidence, due to events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: I Property, plant and equipment depreciation estimated remaining useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are also reviewed for impairment where there has been a trigger event by assessing the present value of estimated future cash flows and net realisable value compared with net book value.
The calculation of estimated future cash flows and residual values is based on the Directors best estimates of future prices, output and costs and is therefore subjective:
