100 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Tesco PLC Parent Company Balance sheet 24 February 2007 2007 2006 notesmm Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 5 8,373 7,382 Current assets Derivative financial instruments 10 108 70 Debtors 6 5,514 4,857 Current asset investments 7 390 5,625 5,017 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Borrowings 9 823 1,008 Derivative financial instruments 10 64 239 Other creditors 8 2,510 1,397 3,397 2,644 Net current assets 2,228 2,373 Total assets less current liabilities 10,601 9,755 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings 9 3,970 3,560 Derivative financial instruments 10 116 48 4,086 3,608 Net assets 6,515 6,147 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 13 397 395 Share premium account 14 4,376 3,988 Profit and loss reserve 14 1,742 1,764 Total equity 6,515 6,147 Accounting policies and notes forming part of these financial statements are on pages 101 to 108.
Sir Terry Leahy Andrew Higginson Directors The Parent Company financial statements on pages 100 to 108 were authorised for issue by the Directors on 16 April 2007 and are subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 29 June 2007.
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101 Notes to the Parent company financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation UITF 44 Group and treasury share transactions effective These financial statements have been prepared under UK for periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007 GAAP using the historical cost convention modified for the Money market deposits revaluation of certain financial instruments and in accordance Money market deposits are stated at cost.
All income from with applicable accounting standards and the Companies these investments is included in the Profit and Loss Account Act 1985. as interest receivable and similar income.
A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are set out below.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated at cost Exemptions less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available Foreign currencies under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 and not Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into presented a Profit and Loss Account for the Company alone.
Pounds Sterling at the financial year end exchange rates.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from Share-based payments preparing a Cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Employees of the Company receive part of their remuneration Cash Flow Statement.
The cash flows of the Company are in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby included in the Tesco PLC Group financial statements.
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 shares equity-settled transactions.
Related Parties from disclosing related party transactions The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at with entities that are part of the Tesco PLC Group.
the grant date using the Black-Scholes model.
In accordance Recent accounting developments with FRS 20 Share-based payment the resulting cost is charged to the Profit and Loss Account over the vesting period.
FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and Disclosures were issued in August 2005 and are effective for actual levels of vesting.
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
Where a subsidiary awards options over the shares of the These amendments revise and enhance previous disclosures Company, this is treated as a capital contribution.
required by FRS 25 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and Financial instruments FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Disclosures.
The adoption of FRS 29 will have no impact upon Companys Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party the results or net assets of the Company.
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective for Debtors 2006 07 with no significant impact on the Company: Debtors are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at The following standards, amendments and interpretations are fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after interest rate method, reduced by appropriate allowances for 1 January 2006, however, their implementation has not had a estimated irrecoverable amounts.
significant impact on the results or net assets of the Company: Current asset investments Amendment to FRS 23 Net investment in foreign Investments are classified as either held for trading or operation available-for-sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting Amendments to FRS 26 Financial Instruments: dates at fair value.
For held for trading, gains and losses arising Recognition and Measurement on Financial Guarantee from changes in fair value are recognised in the Profit and Loss Contracts, the fair value option and cash flow hedge Account.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value accounting of forecast intragroup transactions for available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be but not expected to have a significant impact on the Company: impaired: at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously UITF 41 Scope of FRS 20 recognised in equity is included in the net result for the period.
UITF 42 Reassessment of embedded derivatives Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified FRS 5 Application Note F private finance and according to the substance of the contractual arrangements similar contracts entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that gives a Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting and under review as to their effect on the Company: all of its liabilities.
UITF 45 Liabilities arising from participating in a specific market waste electrical and electronic equipment WEEE effective from 1 July 2007 date from which the WEEE Directive is applicable in the UK 102 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Notes to the Parent company financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies continued Interest-bearing borrowings Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded accounting are principally interest rate swaps including crossat the value of the amount received, net of attributable currency swaps.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestCash flow hedging bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow difference between cost and redemption value being recognised hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to variability in the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk borrowings on an effective interest basis.
associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Creditors probable forecasted transaction.
Creditors are non interest-bearing and are stated at The effective element of any gain or loss from remeasuring amortised cost.
the derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Equity instruments The associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the equity and recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
same period or periods during which the hedged transaction Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting affects the Profit and Loss Account.
The classification of the The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge effective portion when recognised in the Profit and Loss its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising Account is the same as the classification of the hedged from operating, financing and investment activities.
Any element of the remeasurement of the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for instruments for trading purposes, however if derivatives do not an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Profit qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for as such.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at Derivative instruments qualifying for cash flow hedging fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial are principally forward foreign exchange transactions and instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of derivative currency options.
financial instruments is determined by reference to market Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument values for similar financial instruments, or by discounted expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies cash flows or by the use of option valuation models.
At that point in time, any cumulative derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in the is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If Profit and Loss Account.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
the Profit and Loss Account.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company is Net investment hedging required to document from inception the relationship between Derivative financial instruments are classified as net the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The investment hedges when they hedge the Companys net Company is also required to document and demonstrate an investment in an overseas operation.
The effective element assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring the the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be derivative instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Any highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Profit is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge and Loss Account.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity remains highly effective.
are included in the Profit and Loss Account when the foreign Financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one operation is disposed of.
year from the Balance Sheet date are disclosed as falling due Derivative instruments qualifying for net investment hedging after more than one year.
are principally forward foreign exchange transactions and Fair value hedging currency options.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value Pensions hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to changes The Company participates in the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the which is a multi-employer scheme within the Tesco Group and fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair cannot identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities value hedges are recorded in the Profit and Loss Account, of the scheme.
Accordingly, as permitted by FRS 17 Retirement together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item Benefits, the Company has accounted for the scheme as a that is attributable to the hedged risk.
defined contribution scheme, and the charge for the period is based upon the cash contributions payable.
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103 Note 1 Accounting policies continued Taxation Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit for recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the on the basis of all available evidence, it is regarded as more Balance Sheet date.
likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences can be deducted.
that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date and would give rise to an obligation to pay more or less Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax taxation in the future.
rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Note 2 Auditor remuneration 2007 2006 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidated annual accounts 0.6 0.4 Note 3 Employment costs 2007 2006 m m Wages and salaries 13 10 Social security costs 10 8 Pension costs 12 Share-based payment expense equity settled 19 15 43 35 The average number of employees all Directors of the Company during the year was: 15 2006 15.
The Schedule VI requirements for Directors Remuneration are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 40.
Note 4 Dividends For details of equity dividends see note 8 in the consolidated Group financial statements.
Note 5 Fixed asset investments Shares in Group Shares in undertakings joint ventures Total m m m As at 25 February 2006 7,220 162 7,382 Additions 1,032 1,032 Disposals 41 41 As at 24 February 2007 8,211 162 8,373 For a list of the Companys principal operating subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures see note 13 in the Group financial statements.
Note 6 Debtors 2007 2006 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 5,337 4,710 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates a 135 97 Other debtors 13 20 Deferred tax asset b 29 30 Total 5,514 4,857 a The amounts due from joint ventures and associates of 135m 2006 97m are due after more than one year.
104 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
b The par value has been reduced from 250m in 2006 to 125m in 2007 by a buyback of part of the MTN.
c The par value has been reduced from 350m in 2006 to 192m in 2007 by a buyback of part of the MTN.
d The 4% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the Retail Price Index over the life of the MTN.
e The 3.322% LPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the Retail Price Index over the life of the MTN.
The maximum indexation period of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105 Note 9 Borrowings continued 2007 2006 m m Repayment analysis: Amounts falling due within one year 823 1,008 Amounts falling due between one and two years 524 477 Amounts falling due between two and five years 1,327 1,795 Amounts falling due after more than five years 2,119 1,288 4,793 4,568 Note 10 Derivative financial instruments An explanation of the objectives and policies for holding and issuing financial instruments is set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
Carrying values of derivative financial instruments in the Balance Sheet: 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 12 8 11 69 Forward foreign currency contracts 96 56 59 170 108 64 70 239 Non-current Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 116 46 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 116 48 Fair values Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed below: 2007 2006 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Companys operations: Short-term borrowings 823 813 1,008 1,003 Long-term borrowings 3,970 3,920 3,560 3,665 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 112 112 104 104 Forward foreign currency contracts 40 40 113 113 4,865 4,805 4,785 4,885 The fair value of financial instruments and derivatives has been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments are traded.
The fair value of all other items has been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Analysis of interest rate exposure of financial assets and liabilities The interest rate exposure of financial assets and liabilities of the Company as at 24 February 2007, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps, was: More than Within 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate fair value interest rate risk Bank and other loans 210 42 85 161 19 1,274 1,791 Floating rate cash flow interest rate risk Bank and other loans 613 482 190 532 340 845 3,002 106 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Notes to the Parent company financial statements continued Note 10 Derivative financial instruments continued Hedging activities Fair value hedges The Company uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps to hedge the fair value of fixed rate bonds.
The total notional amount of outstanding swaps used for fair value hedging is 2,196m with various maturities out to 2033 2006 2,703m: maturities to 2033.
The fixed rate bonds are hedged against changes to their fair value resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The fair value of swaps used for fair value hedging at the Balance Sheet date was a liability of 107m 2006 100m liability.
Cash flow hedges The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options to hedge the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company.
The hedging instruments are primarily used to hedge purchases in Euros and US Dollars.
The cash flows hedged will occur within one year of the Balance Sheet date.
At the Balance Sheet date, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to which the Group has committed was 764m 2006 548m.
The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated as effective cash flow hedges was a liability of 24m 2006 4m asset.
This amount has been deferred as a component of equity.
Also in place at the Balance Sheet date were interest rate swaps, designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the interest cost of debt instruments issued in March 2007.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges was a liability of 8m 2006 nil.
Net investment hedges The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts, currency denominated borrowings and currency options to hedge the exposure of a proportion of its non-Sterling denominated assets against changes in value due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The total notional amount of net investment hedging contracts at the Balance Sheet date was 4,250m 2006 3,463m.
The fair value of these instruments at the Balance Sheet date was an asset of 56m 2006 117m liability.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting The Company has a number of financial instruments which do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
These instruments include forward foreign exchange contracts, currency options, caps, collars and interest rate swaps.
The fair value of these instruments at the Balance Sheet date was an asset of 11m 2006 5m liability.
Note 11 Share-based payments Tesco PLCs equity settled share-based payment schemes comprise various share option schemes designed to reward Executive Directors.
For further information on these schemes, including the valuation models and assumptions used, see note 22 to the Group financial statements.
The number of options and weighted average exercise price WAEP of share option schemes relating to Tesco PLCs employees are: For the year ended 24 February 2007 Savings-related Approved Unapproved Nil cost share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share options Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Outstanding at 25 February 2006 42,474 203.95 43,965 272.93 12,068,027 245.83 3,459,458 0.00 Granted  Exercised 7,687 198.000.00 3,432,462 219.84 Outstanding at 24 February 2007 42,249 223.23 53,381 280.99 11,300,347 270.90 5,810,007 0.00 Exercisable as at 24 February 2007 15,189 3,726,996 Exercise price range pence 197.50 164.00 to Nil 259.00 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 6.16 4.58 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 Note 11 Share-based payments continued For the year ended 25 February 2006 Savings-related Approved Unapproved Nil cost share option scheme share option scheme share option scheme share options Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Options WAEP Outstanding at 26 February 2005 43,206 194.83 278,079 114.42 10,667,969 230.95 1,126,257 0.00 Granted  Exercised 8,520 198.00 262,890 109.62 1,005,058 248.02 Outstanding at 25 February 2006 42,474 203.95 43,965 272.93 12,068,027 245.83 3,459,458 0.00 Exercisable as at 25 February 2006 4,185,280 Exercise price range pence 164.00 to Nil 259.00 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 5.36 Note 12 Pensions The total cost of the Pension scheme to the Group was 167m 2006 292m.
Further disclosure relating to the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme can be found in note 23 of the Group financial statements.
During the year, the Company purchased and subsequently cancelled 98,327,333 shares of 5p each representing 1% of the called up share capital at an average price of 3.89 per share.
The total consideration, including expenses, was 385m.
The excess of the consideration over the nominal value has been charged to retained earnings.
Between 25 February 2007 and 16 April 2007, options over 3,263,739 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the savings-related share option scheme 1981 and the Irish savings-related option scheme 2000.
Between 25 February 2007 and 16 April 2007, options over 2,242,269 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the executive share option schemes 1994 and 1996 and the discretionary share option plan 2004.
As at 24 February 2007, the Directors were authorised to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 790.5 million 2006 778.7 million ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to received dividends as declared from time-to-time and are entitled to one vote per share at the meetings of the Company.
108 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Notes to the Parent company financial statements continued Note 13 Called up share capital continued Share buyback liability Insider trading rules prevent the Group from buying back its own shares in the market during specified close periods including the period between the year end and the annual results announcement.
However, if an irrevocable agreement is signed beween the Group and a third party, they can continue to buy back shares on behalf of the Group.
Two such arrangements were in place at the year end and in accordance with FRS 25, the Group has recognised a financial liability equal to the estimated value of the shares purchasable under these agreements.
A liability of 90m 2006 nil has been recognised within other creditors for this amount.
Capital redemption reserve Upon cancellation of the shares purchased as part of the share buyback, a capital redemption reserve is created representing the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
Note 14 Reserves 2007 2006 m m Share premium account At the start of the year 3,988 3,704 Premium on issue of shares less costs 152 120 Scrip dividend election 236 164 At the end of the year 4,376 3,988 Profit and loss reserve At the start of the year 1,764 1,771 Gain on foreign currency net investments 17 FRS 20 Share-based payment 205 186 Dividend 706 609 Decrease in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 1 Share buyback 475 Share buyback capital redemption 5 Losses on cash flow hedges 38 Profit after tax for the year 988 399 At the end of the year 1,742 1,764 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Tesco PLC for the year ended 24 February 2007 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Parent Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Company financial statements have been prepared under the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Parent Company financial statements and the part of the described as having been audited.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes We have reported separately on the Group financial statements an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements of Tesco PLC for the year ended 24 February 2007. made by the Directors in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Parent Company We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and information and explanations which we considered necessary United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the reasonable assurance that the Parent Company financial Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory presentation of information in the Parent Company financial requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared to be audited.
for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and Opinion for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other In our opinion: person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it the Parent Company financial statements give a true and may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally in writing.
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Companys affairs as at 24 February 2007.
Company financial statements give a true and fair view and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of whether the Parent Company financial statements and the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Act 1985: and 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent information given in the Directors Report is consistent with with the Parent Company financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information  LLP presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors cross referred from the Business Review section of the London 16 April 2007 Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Operating and Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Cover is printed on Revive 50:50 silk which is produced using 50% recovered fibre and 50% FSC certified virgin wood fibre.
The text pages are printed on Revive 100 silk which is produced from 100% recovered fibre.
The pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
The paper is produced at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 certificate for environmental management.
All paper has been supplied by the Robert Horne Group.
This report is 100% Recyclable and biodegradable.
Printed by an ISO 14001 and FSC certified printer using vegetable based inks.
Cover: Ampang hypermarket, Malaysia Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 whats inside the reports Annual Review and Summary Annual Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statement and Financial Statements Review Read a full review of our UK Read our full financial Read about our social, and international business statements and accounts.
environmental and ethical and a summary of our policies throughout our business.
These reports are available on-line at www.
com corporate How to find out more on-line Every year, more and more information is available for our shareholders, staff and customers on-line at www.
com corporate Talking Tesco Our Talking Tesco website is helping us to listen to our customers, suppliers and staff more easily.
If you would like to make a comment please log on to www.
com talkingtesco THE TESCO STORY THE FOUR PART STRATEGY SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT the Tesco story 02 This is the story of an international business 04 and how we strive every day to do the best we can for our customers why Every Little Helps makes a difference 06 thanks to the staff were so proud of why happy people means better customer service 08 working hard to make things better making things better, simpler, cheaper 10 offering an unbeatable range of products from Value to Finest, we try to cater for all tastes 12 helping you make the right choices for you and your family giving customers more information about our products 14 while building strength in non-food how we are offering a one-stop-shop, in-store and on-line 16 through stores designed and operated for customers how we tailor our stores for our customers 18 and tailored to the communities which they serve how we approach a new market 20 so you can shop from wherever you like our home shopping service 22 making things simple simplifying complicated markets 24 while contributing to our local communities giving something back 26 with suppliers who understand their markets working together to meet our customers needs 28 and leading the way on the environment environmental commitments throughout the business 30 and benefiting all of our stakeholders.
32 The UK is our biggest market... 34 our expansion overseas includes six countries in Europe... 36 and 636 stores across Asia 38 Financial highlights 39 Chairmans statement 40 Chief Executives statement 46 The Board 48 Summary Directors Report 50 Summary Financial Statement 53 Investor information 55 Financial calendar 56 Index 2 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate This is the story of an international business It is 60 years since Tesco was first listed on the London Stock Exchange, as Tesco Stores Holdings Ltd, with a share price of 25 pence.
For the first 50 years, we worked hard to establish our brand and build up a strong UK business, by ensuring that everything we did was driven by a never-ending ambition to improve our customers shopping trips.
It was only ten years ago that we laid out a new strategy for growth, a strategy which looked to find new customers, new markets, new products and new opportunities.
This year, we have celebrated opening our one thousandth store outside the UK, including our five hundredth store in Central Europe and our one hundredth store in Hungary, one of our first international markets.
Over the last ten years we have built up a thriving international business, accessing markets with over two billion people, and enabling us to reach out to an increasing number of customers all around the world.
More recently, in 2004, we announced our entry into China.
Last year, we announced our plans for an exciting new entry into the United States, and we are currently looking at the possibility of an entry to India.
This is the story of an international business what makes us tick, what brings us together, what sets us apart and what drives us forward.
This is the story of an international business, and it is a story which is only just beginning THE TESCO STORY 3 In China we now have 47 stores.
Su Wei, Zhenbei Hypermarket, Shanghai, China 4 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate This year, we asked over 46,000 customers to tell us what we could do to improve the shopping trip for everyone.
Aydin Hypermarket, Turkey THE TESCO STORY 5 and how we strive every day to do the best we can for our customers The essence of what it means In total, we have achieved Self-service checkouts We reduced the to be Tesco can be summed up efficiency savings of over 350 The introduction and roll-out of lead time in our in three words: Every Little Helps.
million this year through our Step self-service checkouts has also Our store managers, our buyers, Change Programme, which brings supply chain for helped us to improve service our general assistants, our delivery together many initiatives to make by speeding up transactions and over a hundred drivers, in fact anyone who works our business better for customers, shortening queues for customers.
for Tesco, can use these words to simpler for our staff and cheaper suppliers of fresh These checkouts are now being help them understand why their for Tesco.
These savings have used in over 450 UK stores with products.
Later role is so important.
helped us to cope well with many more to come.
Nearly three increased energy, rate and rent It is sometimes difficult to make orders mean more million customers are now using costs, at the same time as big changes straight away, but self-service checkouts and they accurate predictions improving our offer for customers.
Every Little Helps recognises that tell us that they do so because small improvements help to make of exactly how We have also recognised that they are quick and easy to use.
the shopping experience a little if we can collaborate with our The stores where they have been much fresh food bit better for customers, and we suppliers effectively, we can introduced, almost two-thirds should constantly seek to improve products we need improve our understanding have seen significant increases everything we do.
By in customers receiving our one in a particular store.
There is nothing about being creating full-time jobs for the in front checkout promise.
Because of the Tesco that makes us automatically staff of our suppliers working better than anyone else at meeting alongside our commercial teams, increased accuracy, customers needs.
However, by both companies have an ideal this has improved making our stores a bit easier opportunity to share knowledge, to get around, having a little remove obstacles and defeat our availability, more choice, being a bit cheaper, problems that can sometimes increased our sales saving a few minutes at the occur.
Ultimately this means checkout and making sure our that we deliver more reliably and helped us to staff give the best possible service, for customers and we and our reduce waste.
we can make sure we are always partners increase our sales.
Of course, being Tesco, we set ourselves demanding targets and if and when we hit them, we raise the bar to make sure we never stand still.
For example, this year, we invested in a new system which times exactly how long customers have had to wait at our checkouts.
Using the data this system provides, we have been able to improve our staff scheduling, resulting in over 350,000 more customers not having to queue.
it pays to be green Since the launch of our initiative to cut the use of carrier bags, by rewarding customers with Green Clubcard Points, we have saved on average 13 million carrier bags each week.
6 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate thanks to the staff were so proud of The Tesco team is made up of This year, Ryszard Tomaszewski Sharing in Success In the UK alone, over 400,000 people and it might returned to Poland to become All of our staff in the UK, at we have appointed seem like an impossible job to the Companys first Polish Chief all levels, can share in Tescos get everyone pulling in the same Executive, after completing his over 3,000 managers success, through share schemes direction, but we know that if we CEO development programme and one of the best pension this year and have look after our people, they will in the UK, which included being schemes in the market.
responsible for 250 superstores over 5,500 staff In the UK, over 165,000 of our in the north of England.
Ryszards When we have talked to our staff staff have a personal stake in working towards appointment is a great example about what they want from their Tescos future, through shares of our strategy to develop local job, they agree that they are doing a bigger and share incentive schemes.
people in the countries where motivated by similar things: Last May, we awarded a record job.
to be treated with respect 77 million through our Shares We are constantly striving to find programme in Success scheme.
50,000 a manager who helps me innovative ways to bring young of our staff were also able to gives our staff the an interesting job people who have great potential benefit when our Save As You an opportunity to get on into our business.
In September opportunity to Earn scheme matured in last year, we launched A-Level These things form a key part February, giving them access drive their own Options, giving 100 young people of Tescos values and are essential to shares worth 148 million.
the opportunity to go on to a to the way we work.
At Tesco, we Perhaps because of this, many scheme, which fast-tracks them strive every day to treat people of our staff are very keen to into management.
We recognised how we would like to be treated.
contribute their ideas on how that there was a place for those As Tesco grows and develops, we could improve the way we people who did not want to go so do our people, and one of work.
As well as our Tesco Week on to further education.
We are our challenges is to make sure in Store Together TWIST opening this scheme up to even that we transfer the skills and programme, which involves over more young people in the year knowledge our people have around 3,000 senior managers spending ahead.
We have created a week working alongside Improving the qualifications of an International Development colleagues in store, we also have our staff is a great way of keeping programme to make sure that a First Steps programme, which them motivated whilst helping we are identifying talent in every means that anyone can feed in them to develop further.
This part of the world and providing their ideas about the business, year, we will become the first the support to enable those however big or small.
retailer in the UK to offer 40 of people on the programme to our managers the opportunity become future leaders within to gain a foundation degree the business.
Our Shopping Lists determine what we strive to achieve every day.
THE TESCO STORY 7 Our staff strive every day to give the very best in customer service.
Tina Mott, Bar Hill Extra, Cambridge, UK 8 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate We now have self-service checkouts in over 450 stores in the UK.
Kensington Superstore, London, UK THE TESCO STORY 9 working hard to make things better Every single one of our businesses There are lots of examples of Tesco in a Box We have worked around the world operates in a this, many of which happen One of the most important with our suppliers very competitive environment.
advances that helps us do things Competition is good for Tesco.
One recent development is to redesign our more efficiently is information It keeps us on our toes and shelf-ready packaging.
Every ensures that we are always first brought in to make it easier vast amount of data each and improving and making our stores, for our staff to fill the shelves.
store now has only every day, with transactions our service and our products even It helped make sure that we taking place all around the world.
one style of bread better for our customers.
However, kept products in stock and freed In 2001, we started a project this can be quite hard work, so we up time to help us to reinvest tray rather than five.
called Tesco in a Box by also have to make sure we keep in having more staff on our identifying the best practice This has simplified things simple, and that we are checkouts.
processes for all areas of the efficient.
We look for ways to help our back door Not being satisfied with that, business, and designing a customers spend less by cutting we have changed the design standard suite of systems that operation and prices, so that they benefit from of much of the packaging, we can roll out to each and every the changes we make without because we have so that it looks more attractive market.
This project has now having to pay more.
on the shelves, but perhaps been enlarged to include all used a very efficient Not only are we working hard more importantly, uses far less aspects of our operating model.
design, we have to make things better for our cardboard than traditional It means that the systems in our customers, but we are also packaging.
We have also put stores can talk to the systems in saved over 400 working hard to make things in place processes to make sure our distribution centres, our head tonnes of plastic.
For example, we remove empty packaging offices and even some of our within distribution we have from the shelves so that suppliers, helping us to do a introduced staff forums, Options, customers can quickly see better, more effective job for Team 5 and First Steps.
We have what they are looking for.
We customers all around the world.
retrained our managers so that then recycle the cardboard These best practice processes and they are now working on the that we remove.
systems are being implemented shop floor shoulder-to-shoulder Over the past year, we have fully in our start-up operation in with our staff, which has had rolled out shelf-ready packaging the United States, allowing us a positive impact on morale.
to focus on the customer offer It would be fair to say that Over 600 of these were grocery rather than reinventing the core Tesco is full of people who have and household products, which processes of the business.
a passion for making things have been moved from a box to We continue to adapt the model Better, Simpler and Cheaper.
a tray, giving a 50% reduction to local markets and we plan to Its not about Good, Simple and in cardboard.
introduce it to the Czech Republic, Cheap if it was, these people Slovakia, Thailand and Malaysia.
would eventually decide they had done enough and that the job was finished.
Instead, they relentlessly look for the next opportunity for improvement.
recycle We are investing 15 million in worldleading automated recycling machines helping customers double the amount they recycle.
: TO BE SOURCED 10 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate offering an unbeatable range of products We see it as our job not to dictate There are now over 50 Tesco Fresh in the Capital Cherokee and what customers should buy, but to Kids products, including packs of Our customers in London have Florence Fred, make sure that we do everything organic bananas and nutritionallya huge choice of sandwich bars we can to give them the widest balanced ready meals.
These two of our acclaimed where they can purchase freshlypossible choice of products.
products have been put together made sandwiches.
We dont have clothing brands, with the help of over 650 children Tesco has been serving customers the facilities to be able to produce between the ages of 7 and 11 day in, day out, for over eighty have now been sandwiches in our stores, so we and are designed with fun in years, and this has helped us to worked with Bradgate Bakery to rolled out to our mind, whilst reassuring parents understand the kind of things develop a range of sandwiches that their children are not filling that customers are looking for.
four Central called Fresh in the Capital that themselves with lots of artificial But it doesnt make us experts are made during the night and European countries.
in knowing exactly what each delivered direct to stores first thing customer wants at any given Our customers in in the morning.
Every sandwich Organics on the move moment of any given day.
All that is made is on our shelves This year saw one of the Hungary, Poland, customers are individuals and within two and a half hours of biggest developments so far each wants to be able to make the Czech Republic production.
in our Organics product range.
split-second choices about what Initially launched into ten stores and Slovakia can We used to display nearly all of he or she wants to buy.
Maybe in May of last year, the customer our organic products together they want to save a bit of money, now buy great value feedback has been so positive in one part of the store, so that buy locally farmed vegetables or that we have now rolled the range fashion similar to customers who particularly wanted make sure that theres something out to a further 40 stores and to follow an organic lifestyle could that available in healthy in the freezer for the kids.
have plans to launch some great readily identify the products they Our new Tesco Ingredients range new products this Spring.
is perfect for our customers who As we continued to talk and listen love cooking, our Free From range to our customers, we have learnt is invaluable to those with food that they were now keen to be allergies and our Wholefoods able to see organic and nonbrand appeals to our customers organic products side by side, who have a growing appetite so that they could easily compare for nutritious, healthy foods.
the quality and prices before This year we have added over deciding which to buy.
As a result 250 Finest lines and over 1,000 of this, we made the decision to premium products, giving incorporate every organic product customers even more choice into the relevant category on our for their weekly shop.
shelves: since doing this, sales have increased by almost 40%.
ranges Our new Tesco Ingredients range now has over 50 lines, with another 20 due to be launched this year.
THE TESCO STORY 11 In September 2006, we launched our own-brand Legou Value products in our stores in Shanghai, Jiangsu and Zhejing.
Qi Jing Jing, Zhenbei Hypermarket, Shanghai, China 12 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate In just 12 months, the proportion of our customers buying Organics is up by 40%.
THE TESCO STORY 13 helping you make the right choices for you and your family As we are all becoming even more This enables customers to see Willow Farm chicken Since we rolled out aware of the link between food at a glance the proportion of fat, Willow Farm chicken was nutritional labelling and our health, healthy eating salt, sugar, calories and saturated launched this year to and a balanced diet are becoming fat in a standard portion, so that to our sandwich complement our standard increasing priorities for our they can decide the best way chicken range.
What makes range, we saw customers.
The provenance and to put together a balanced diet Willow Farm different is that the origin of food is also becoming an for their families.
The best thing, sales of our Healthy chickens are a slower growing important factor when customers at least as far as some of our breed that develop better flavour Living salmon and are choosing what to buy.
We all customers are concerned, is that and greater succulence and like to make sure we know what we are helping them make cucumber sandwich texture.
Willow Farm chickens were eating, where it came from informed choices.
If they fancy are fed a specially formulated increase by 46% and how healthy it is.
that slice of chocolate cake, they cereal-based vegetarian diet.
can perhaps choose something We also all like to treat ourselves and the standard They are housed in spacious healthier for a main course from time-to-time.
The thing is, barns with straw bales to perch variety decrease were not telling them what they we are all different: one persons on and the barns have large should and shouldnt eat.
idea of a treat would be a big slice by 30%.
windows providing the birds of chocolate cake, anothers may Thanks to the unique insight with natural light.
be a restaurant-quality meal that we have into what our customers We launched Willow Farm they can prepare in minutes: yet choose to buy, we have found chicken because we wanted to anothers might be getting great out that many of them, once produce an affordable product quality ingredients to cook up in they have been given this extra with outstanding eating qualities, their own recipe.
information, choose more healthy appealing to a range of customers.
For example, sales of As well as giving customers the It has also helped us to improve healthier ready meals have choice they have come to expect the welfare of a large number increased, with a corresponding from Tesco, we have invested a of chickens.
decline in some of the lesslot of time and energy in trying Our work on Willow Farm is healthy products.
to give them as much information the result of our collaboration as possible, to help them make In response to this change, we with the Food Animal Initiative that choice.
have put together teams of www.
co. uk and chefs, nutritionists and tasters to This year, we continued our roll our suppliers.
reformulate many of the recipes out of front-of-pack nutritional for our prepared products, to help labelling, to 6,600 own-label make them more healthy.
the last twelve months, we have removed salt and hydrogenated fat from over 1,300 lines.
healthy living Sales of lower-fat ready meals increased when we introduced GDA labelling.
14 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate while building strength in non-food When we first started putting The idea behind Tesco Direct was New products, new markets, Our on-line DVD non-food products into our stores, simple: how could we help make new challenges rental service gives our ambition was to be as strong customers lives less complicated?
Its not just our stores that make in non-food as we are in food.
We knew that they hated waiting our customers access up our overseas businesses we We now have built up a range of a long time for their products, have a team of people all around to almost 60,000 products that is strong enough to so we made next day delivery the world looking for great quality attract customers in its own right, standard for small items, and DVDs and games.
non-food products that we can but we are still keen to improve five to ten day delivery standard sell at the best possible prices.
Customers have and extend our offer.
for big items like furniture, which This team includes staff working often take weeks to order.
Most Not only do we have great value the convenience of in buying offices from Milan to people also dislike having to wait items, such as the Value DVD Bangladesh, as well as our Asian simply going on-line, in for deliveries, so we trialled a player for 17.74 and the flatsourcing hub in Hong Kong.
unique two-hour delivery window, screen TV for 129.97 but we have selecting one of There are many challenges building on the success of our extended our range to include the the three packages working in such diverse markets, grocery home shopping business.
leading brands and high quality not least the cultural and political Some of our customers told us products, such as digital cameras available and then differences that exist between that they didnt want to be pinned and satellite navigation systems.
having the DVD or countries.
As well as having down to a particular time at all, Over the last year, we have teams of commercial experts so we decided to offer a delivery game of their choice extended 23 of our stores, adding in each product category, we to store option, so that they could well over half a million sq ft of delivered to their employ teams of trading pick up their order from their local non-food space.
Many of these standards experts who check store whenever it suited them.
Last year, over extensions have been made that our suppliers are operating The customer response so far possible by adding in a mezzanine four million DVDs in a safe, ethical and legal way.
When floor, so that customers can enjoy and games were we launched the full offer in a completely different shopping March 2007, with a 1,000-page experience for clothing and rented in this way.
catalogue and an increased range electrical items.
of over 11,000 products on-line, Even with this additional space, customer orders more than less than one in ten people in trebled on previous weeks.
the UK can easily get to one Find out more at of our large Extras.
com direct Because of this, in September 2006 we started Tesco Direct, a brand new on-line general merchandise offer, with over 8,000 products, half of which were brand new to Tesco and couldnt be found in any of our stores.
Tesco Direct The range available in Tesco Direct is equivalent to everyone in the UK having easy access to one of our 120,000 sq ft Extras.
THE TESCO STORY 15 We have dedicated staff to help our customers make informed choices in our electrical departments all around the world.
A. Augustowski, Katowice Hypermarket, Poland 16 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Our Express stores provide convenience for local neighbourhoods, with great quality, low-priced food.
Holland Park Express, London, UK THE TESCO STORY 17 through stores designed and operated for customers We are only able to grow our Of course, its not just in our Producing a better display Our stores are business if customers choose core UK market that this applies.
It can be hard work making sure designed not only to shop with us.
In 2006, we acquired 11 we always have enough fresh fruit hypermarkets in the Czech Whenever we look to open a for our customers but and vegetables in stock, as these Republic from Carrefour, one new store, our first priority is to are some of our most popular also the communities of our international competitors.
find out what it is that customers items almost 10% of our sales want in their local store, how they Before we started converting that they serve.
come from these products and would like the store to look and them to Tesco hypermarkets demand can vary a lot affected Our regeneration what kind of facilities they would last year, we asked the local by many factors including the like it to have.
Is it likely to be busy customers what they would like partnership stores weather.
in the evenings, at the end of us to do.
They told us that they Because of this, our teams have work with Job Centre the school day or is it more of already liked the stores, but that developed lots of innovative a weekend destination store?
they would love to see a bigger Plus to recruit a ways of making it easier to keep Would customers like to have produce and fresh meat products in stock merchandisable significant number a caf so that they can catch selection and a stronger and units which can be wheeled up over a spot of lunch or is more fashionable clothing offer.
of their staff from straight off our delivery trucks it more important to have a We have invested considerable and out on to the shop floor, and the long-term bigger produce department?
time and effort in refreshing the green trays which suppliers fill up unemployed, single stores and making the changes Every store, in every part of every with product that can go straight that customers had asked us for.
country, undergoes an extensive on the shelf saving tonnes of parents and disabled consultation with local customers, cardboard and lots of handling people.
We offer local communities and local for staff.
authorities to ensure that it is successful applicants Over the last year, we began to developed with them in mind.
receive feedback from customers a training programme Its part of being a responsible that, while they understood that company, but its also common with a guaranteed the things we had done made it sense if you want customers easier for them to get the very job once it is to choose to shop with you, freshest produce, sometimes it ask them what it is that would completed.
So far, could be difficult to find what they help them make that choice.
were looking for as the green trays we have opened looked quite similar.
17 regeneration Acting on this feedback, we have made a number of changes to stores and have the produce department.
Weve offered jobs to over changed the way the trays are displayed, to make it easier to see 4,000 long-term whats inside, weve changed the unemployed and tray liners, so that customers can readily identify Organic, British disadvantaged and Finest products and weve people.
added in clearer signage to help customers find staple items like potatoes, carrots and tomatoes.
a good listener We try to engage with the community to better understand local issues and concerns.
18 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate and tailored to the communities which they serve Later this year, we will open our Recently, we felt that the skills We combined all of these things We recently announced the first stores in the United States of we had picked up overseas might with our learnings from running installation of a solar panel roofing America.
Customers on the West help us offer a better service to Express stores across Europe and system, as part of the construction Coast in Phoenix, Los Angeles, American consumers than the one Asia, to create a new way of of our distribution centre in San Diego and Las Vegas will get they were currently receiving.
To shopping for American consumers.
the opportunity to choose one of test this, we put together a team We thought it was a great At 500,000 sq ft, the $13 million our Fresh & Easy Neighborhood of people, who lived on the West concept, but wanted to find out project is the largest roof-mounted Market stores to pick up great Coast for almost a year.
Some whether local customers agreed solar installation in California.
lived in peoples homes, following with us.
Under the cover of making Local Los Angeles company, them around as they shopped a movie one of the advantages We have chosen to go to the Solar Integrated, will install the and even having a good look of starting in California!
we built United States, one of the largest energy-saving device which will through what they kept in their a store inside a warehouse and and most exciting markets in the produce over 2.6 kilowatt hours fridges and their cupboards.
filled it with the kind of products world, as we believe that we have per annum, providing nearly a we wanted to sell.
learnt a lot from our ten years We learnt that many American fifth of our chilled frozen grocery of experience in other markets consumers find it quite frustrating We invited a panel of over 200 distribution centres power supply outside of the UK, especially the that they often have to shop in American consumers to walk and saving around 1,200 tonnes way in which we have been able several different stores to get what around the store and give us of CO emissions each year.
2 to tailor our stores to reflect the they want, even if they just want their feedback.
As always, weve All Fresh & Easy Neighborhood needs of local customers.
taken it on board, adapted our Market stores will be equipped plans and got straight to work But what does this mean?
Its We also found that fresh products with energy-efficient freezer on building what we think will not just about the name we sometimes arent quite as fresh cabinets which will use LED rather be a great business in the worlds choose to put above the door, as they should be, as theyve than fluorescent lighting and largest economy.
And as always, its about the very heart of the often had to travel great distances will have modified refrigerators the customers will be the first business and how we get to before they end up on the shelf.
to judge how weve done, when understand our customers.
There are also lots of convenience Find out more at they get the chance to visit products, but very few healthy This starts before we even decide www.
choices for those who find that whether or not to enter a new they dont have much time to market.
We have been very prepare their own food.
interested in the US for over two decades.
To start with, this was because there were lots of retailers doing lots of innovative things which we thought might help us improve our offer for customers back home.
fresh & easy Our Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market brand products will have no added trans fats and no artificial colours or flavours.
THE TESCO STORY 19 We will be creating over 2,500 jobs in our Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market stores.
Riverside distribution centre, California, US 20 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Our dotcom business in South Korea offers customers a choice of over 15,000 products when they shop on-line.
com Seoul, South Korea THE TESCO STORY 21 so you can shop from wherever you like To make sure that our customers To help us continue to deliver this Green van men Many people get the same great choice as they success, we have now opened our take to the streets associate our on-line have come to expect when doing first tesco.
Some Many people know the huge their own shopping, tesco.
com people might call it a warehouse, service exclusively difference that we can make by operates by asking customers to but we have been very careful to delivering customers shopping with grocery send their orders in on-line and make the distinction.
By laying the to their doors.
Perhaps they dont then by picking their orders from products out in the same way as products.
However, have a car, are recovering from our existing stores.
in a standard store and by filling an operation and cant leave we are also a wine up the shelves in the same way, Today the tesco.
com model the house or perhaps they have we have been able to ensure that operates in the UK, the Republic merchant, with a a young family and are short the pickers choose customers of Ireland and South Korea.
range of over 900 shopping with the same care line grocery sales have exceeded Tesco.
com has made a big and attention that they would 1 billion for the first time in the wines, including commitment to reduce CO 2 do if they were picking from UK alone.
We have an active emissions throughout the 150 that are only their local superstore.
customer base of 850,000 and business.
Because our dotcom more than 250,000 orders are Situated in Croydon, South available on our vans visit several different now being completed each week.
com only store households before returning on-line service.
We helps us to meet the demand for In the UK, nearly 1,860 vans to store, each van saves also offer customers our home shopping service that operate out of 294 stores.
In our thousands of car journeys per the local stores were not able Newcastle store our service is so year, thereby reducing pollution a beautiful range of to meet.
Although these kind popular that there are now 18 and congestion on our roads.
courier-delivered of stores dont replace our normal vans delivering to local customers.
We are, however, conscious that tesco.
com model, there may be bouquets, and Drivers deliver between 9am and there is more we can do, so in a few more locations around the 11pm, and our staff start picking May 2007 we introduced our first indoor and outdoor country where they could help our customers orders from 6am.
fleet of fully electric, zero-emission us offer our service to more plants through our A record-breaking 1.3 million home delivery vans which are both customers.
com to quiet and pollution free.
deliver their presents and Each of the zero-emission vans, groceries over Christmas, and which are based at the newlyto make sure that these were opened environment store in all picked successfully, our staff Shrewsbury and throughout started picking even earlier, London, will save 21 tonnes at 4am.
of CO per year the equivalent 2 of driving 51,000 miles in a car.
com We have over 9,000 staff picking our customers on-line orders in our UK stores.
22 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate making things simple Telecoms services Tesco Personal Finance It has been a very successful Tesco has become an increasingly Tesco Personal Finance, the Taking out a year for Tesco Telecoms, which popular retail destination for financial services arm of our mortgage on a has approaching two million telecoms.
Over the past year, Tesco business, was launched in 1997 customers using its mobile has grown its market share and and offers a combination of house can be very network, home phone, internet is now the second-largest retailer internet, supermarket and daunting, but Tesco phone and internet access of pay-as-you-go mobile phones telephone banking.
Finance now has over five million Mortgages tries to customer accounts.
In partnership Tesco Mobile, the joint mobile It is the largest provider of mobile do all the hard work.
with the Royal Bank of Scotland venture with O2, is the fastest top-up in Europe.
Airtime sales for we provide a range of 22 low-cost, growing pay-as-you-go mobile 2006 07 totalled over 358 million.
Our Tesco Mortgage value for money financial services network in the UK, taking almost We all live in a world increasingly Finder searches the covering general insurance, 30% market share of new revolving around technology and lending and savings and customers in 2006.
The network whole market to on-line services, but often the investments.
Tesco Personal now has 1.4 million customers.
systems and processes can be save our customers Finance operates in the UK, Tesco Mobile remains heavily really confusing and complicated.
Republic of Ireland, Hungary time, energy and focused on excellent customer Web phoning technology used and Poland.
service and ended 2006 as to be a niche product that only money.
It is a We are continuing to expand number one mobile network appealed to the technologically hassle-free service our range of products.
In 2006 for overall customer satisfaction minded.
Our new internet phone we introduced the Bonus Credit TNS Prognostics Mobile service is attracting the growing as we apply for the Card, which gives customers back Satisfaction survey Q4 2006. number of customers choosing mortgage on behalf one months interest every year, This year it has expanded its to switch from landline services.
service for customers with the What we have strived for is a of our customers, Another innovation in 2006 was launch of family-friendly services service that is simple, easy to and even deal the introduction of Value Car such as a new information use, convenient and great value.
Insurance, this policy offers no download portal, enhanced with their lender We have made sure it feels just frills comprehensive cover at a low parental controls and My Tesco like a normal telephone and we to ensure that cost.
This product is the result Mobile on-line centre.
These give our customers a telephone of months of investigation by the process is as services have wide appeal to number that they can take with Tesco Personal Finance into customers who trust Tesco to them if they move, plus calls are smooth as possible.
what motorists would most like provide simplicity, value and free from one internet phone to see in a Value range.
is a simplified product that will Tesco home phone continues to make comprehensive cover more attract customers with its three affordable for a larger number simple, great value tariffs and the of drivers.
launch this year of wholesale line This year, we have introduced rental, which allows customers our low-cost, quality private Tesco to receive just one bill for their Health Insurance.
private hospitals participating in the scheme and customers have 24-hour telephone access to qualified and experienced healthcare professionals, 365 days a year.
tesco personal finance With five million customer accounts and 22 products and services, Tesco Personal Finance is the UKs largest and most successful supermarket bank.
THE TESCO STORY 23 We continue to try and offer convenience and choice for customers.
We now have six telecoms centres across the country.
Slough Extra, UK 24 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Thanks to the enthusiasm of staff and customers in their fundraising activities, we have been able to provide mobility equipment for over 750 children.
Peter Langton, aged 9 THE TESCO STORY 25 while contributing to our local communities Tesco already plays an important Our national community schemes Community Plan goes We have been role in local communities, but in the UK are moving from International touched by the way the Community Plan which we strength to strength with more This year, we are going to be launched in 2006 is helping schools than ever benefiting employees right progressively launching the us to do even more.
As well as from our Computers for Schools, Community Plan internationally, throughout the providing a great shopping trip, and Sport for Schools and initially throughout Europe, customers want us to be a good Clubs programmes.
This year, Company have Thailand and South Korea.
We neighbour and behave responsibly, the Tesco Great School Run set will focus on our environmental taken Whizz-Kidz fairly and honestly.
a Guinness World Record as the impact, especially energy use, largest simultaneous walk or run, In 2006, our Charity of the to their hearts.
The helping our customers lead with 242,000 children taking Year was Whizz-Kidz.
With a healthy lives, our relationships amazing sum of part.
Three quarters of a million fundraising target of 1.5 million, with our suppliers, and our women took part in Race for Life, our aim was to clear their waiting money Tesco staff relationships with our neighbours raising 53 million for Cancer list of 391 children.
In fact, we near to our stores.
and customers have Research UK.
have had a fantastic year, raising By focusing on issues that are more than double this target Little things can also make a big raised is a clear important locally, we are able 3.4 million the highest amount difference, and Christmas came to concentrate on delivering real reflection of, and raised in any Charity of the Year early this year for over 3,000 and measurable improvements worthy testament partnership to date.
This has children in Hertfordshire, as staff that are of most benefit to meant that we have been able from Tesco Head Office took to the each country.
Examples include to, their enthusiasm to help over 750 children by stage to perform a free pantomime introducing Charity of the Year and determination providing customised mobility tour for disadvantaged children in Hungary, helping communities equipment such as a tricycle, and local community groups.
Get Active in South Korea or to change the lives sports or powered wheelchair Over the next two years, Tesco supporting the Police with finding of disabled children and by giving them the freedom is teaming up with new youth missing children in Slovakia.
to live their lives independently.
volunteering charity, V and We currently operate 46 Culture across the country.
This year, we have teamed up with Community Service Volunteers Centres in South Korea, with Id like to thank the British Red Cross, to be our with the aim of recruiting 450,000 members.
The theme of 12,000 young volunteers to get Tesco Ireland raised 692,000 for every employee and the year-long partnership is Crisis involved in community projects their Charity of the Year, Multiple customer that so Care in your Neighbourhood, and such as setting up a youth club Sclerosis Ireland.
This represents we hope to have a major impact, or organising a party for socially the single largest corporate generously donated not only by increasing awareness deprived children.
We hope donation to Multiple Sclerosis their money and time of the crucial work the British Red to motivate these volunteers Ireland in its 46-year history.
Cross does in the UK, but also by to make a real difference in The money raised will go towards throughout 2006. aiming to raise 2 million to help their communities.
a nationwide exercise and health fund three vital UK services, Care promotion programme.
We Ruth Owen, Chief in the Home, life-changing intend to introduce many equally Executive, Whizz-Kidz emergency equipment and lifesuccessful schemes through saving skills.
our local Community Plans internationally.
The support we get from Find out more at www.
com corporate everyone at Tesco is crucial to the emergency work of the Red Cross.
Its as simple and as fantastic as that.
Sir Nicholas Young, Chief Executive British Red Cross.
26 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate with suppliers who understand their markets We work with many suppliers We try to treat our suppliers Local, wherever local might be We recently throughout the UK and as we like to be treated: in a fair, Tesco has nearly 50 hypermarkets announced a internationally to meet our honest and responsible way, as across China, and in January this customers needs.
We try and they are vital to our success.
number of new year we opened our first Tesco create long-term sustainable For the past three years we have branded store in Beijing.
For the measures to relationships with suppliers who conducted an anonymous and first time, our Tesco logo is visible have similar values to our own.
completely confidential survey on support UK dairy next to the Chinese name Legou, Working together we can deliver what its like to work with Tesco.
farmers and give the very best in quality and value Over 94% of suppliers have The store has been designed with for money.
reported that we are trustworthy, customers even eastern tastes in mind, as Chinese reliable, helpful and fair.
Our partnership with MMUK who consumers like to touch and feel more choice when supply us with the Jaffa citrus Our local sourcing programme their produce before they buy, fruit range has been ongoing for in the UK is already thriving buying milk.
We are whether they are choosing a over ten years.
Together we have and we know that local means soft shell crab or live silk worms.
raising the price produced a premium product that different things to different Almost all of the goods on the our customers love as it is sweeter, customers.
Some of our customers farmers receive to shelves are locally sourced and are and of better quality.
In the last want to buy British, while others around 22 pence per brands that Chinese customers three years the brand has grown want to buy produce from farms already know and trust.
The store litre, to try to reflect over 41%.
We have achieved this by in their local community.
As part does, however, sell our new ownincreasing the amount of lines in of the Community Plan, we want the farmers costs label Legou Tesco products that the range, giving the products extra to provide customers with the best were launched in October last of production.
We space in our stores and offering local offer possible, and one of the year.
We have developed a range great promotions for our customers.
ways that we are doing this is by are also launching of over 500 Value products setting up local Tesco roadshows.
In November 2006, we teamed through our Product Assessment localchoice milk up with Albert Bartlets who They provide an opportunity for Centre at our hypermarket in have over 50 years of experience small local suppliers to meet Tesco which will be sourced Guangxin, consisting of both food growing potatoes.
Together we buyers and Directors.
Our first and non-food lines such as fine from local farms launched the Finest Rooster roadshow took place in Padstow, rice and noodles.
Not only is this Cornwall, and as a result of it we and sold at Tesco the first loose product in the have added over 50 new Cornish stores in or close Finest range, we are the only lines to our range.
We have since retailer to stock the baking had roadshows on the Isle of to their county.
The rooster potato is Wight and most recently in popular amongst celebrity chefs Carmarthen, in Wales, which and our customers response was a huge success, and we has been extremely positive.
will soon be seeing new Welsh beers, cheeses and sausages on our shelves.
local suppliers We are encouraging more small suppliers by developing our network of regional offices and making it easier for them to access our distribution network.
THE TESCO STORY 27 Jorrit Jonkers have been growing organic produce since 1999.
Jorrit Jonkers, Oirschot, The Netherlands 28 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate We transported 1,500 tonnes of building materials to our site by ship, saving over 75 truck journeys.
Wick Extra, UK THE TESCO STORY 29 and leading the way on the environment Our customers tell us they want At Tesco we always set ourselves Store for the future We have worked our help to do more in the fight ambitious targets, so we are In December 2006, we opened hard to reduce the against climate change, if only delighted to be reaching our what we considered to be Britains we can make it easier and more target to halve energy use in miles our products greenest supermarket in Wick affordable.
our buildings two years early.
in the north of Scotland, setting travel within our They want us to take complicated By the end of May 2007, every a new benchmark for green carbon calculations and make possible UK distribution centre distribution technology and construction them easy to understand.
So will be supplying our transport in retail.
Our we have begun the search to fleet with a 50% biodiesel blend.
The 50,000 sq ft store has a 50% develop a measure of the carbon This is the highest percentage lorries now pick up smaller carbon footprint than a footprint to put on every product biodiesel blend used by any conventional supermarket of the stock from suppliers we sell.
Customers will be able to distribution fleet in the world.
same size, and with its timber compare the carbon footprint of on their way back In order to help our customers frame and environmentallya product in the same way that make informed decisions, friendly building methods, from making a store they currently compare its price any product that has been air the construction process for the or nutritional profile.
We have freighted to our stores will be store also has a carbon footprint We will reduce the carbon labelled with an aeroplane 20% smaller than for a also increased the footprint of our existing stores symbol, and we have set ourconventional store.
amount of doubleand distribution centres around selves the target of restricting air When it opened, the Wick store the world by 50% by 2020.
We transport to less than 1% of our decker vehicles was the only Tesco store to have will also ensure that all new stores products.
Delivering this target a wooden exterior, which was transporting our we build between now and 2020, must be done in a way that is made from sustainable timber.
emit on average at least 50% sensitive to the needs of some products and Five micro wind turbines and less carbon than an equal store of the poorest people on earth solar cells help to power the introduced the in 2006. whose lives are improved by the store and over one million litres ability to sell in our markets.
So use of a train Every Little Helps is the way of rainwater will be harvested we will source the majority of this we do things at Tesco, and we each year and used where running regularly 1% from developing countries.
must show customers how their possible in the stores operations.
from Daventry to individual choices will make a Over the next five years we will We reduced the height of the difference.
By introducing Green spend more than 500 million on roof by over a metre, to minimise Scotland.
These Clubcard points for customers technology to reduce our energy the volume of air that requires three initiatives who re-use carrier bags, we have use.
Energy reduction is a top heating.
seen a reduction of, on average, priority throughout the business, have saved over In May this year, we opened an 13 million plastic bags given from the boardroom to the environmental store in Shrewsbury 11 million miles away every week since its launch, member of staff who is energy with a carbon footprint 60% totalling over 400 million so far.
champion in each of our stores.
smaller than a conventional store, In order to make environmental and over the next year we will also choices affordable for all of build new environmental stores our customers, we are going to throughout Europe and Asia.
promote and incentivise energyFind out more at efficient products through our www.
com corporate Green Clubcard schemes.
We have already halved the price of energy-efficient light bulbs and we are going to offer more energy-efficient products throughout our Value range.
30 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate and benefiting all of our stakeholders.
Tescos success means that we are fortunate enough to be in a position where we can make a big difference to all of our stakeholders.
The lessons we have learnt over the last 80 years have enabled us to find ways that open up even more opportunities for long-term growth, benefiting our shareholders.
This growth can only be achieved by aiming to constantly improve the job we do for customers, so that every time they visit one of our stores, or try one of our services, they get a slightly better experience.
Our staff dont just contribute to, but benefit from the performance of the business, through our share schemes and our awardwinning pension scheme, which helps to offer them a financially secure future.
As they grow alongside us, our suppliers benefit from being able to bring their products to more customers, both in the UK and excitingly in many different markets all around the world.
The communities which we form a part of also benefit from our success.
Our staff are largely drawn from the areas surrounding the stores they work in and so have a natural desire to make things better for both themselves and their friends and neighbours.
It has become increasingly apparent in recent years that the things we all do in our everyday lives are having a lasting and potentially damaging impact on the environment, with particular consequences for climate change.
Tesco has the ability and the ambition, through the efforts of our staff, our customers and all of our stakeholders, to lead the way on making a lasting difference to our long-term future.
THE TESCO STORY 31 we now have over 3,000 stores worldwide United Kingdom Poland Czech Republic Republic Slovakia of Ireland Hungary South Korea Turkey Japan China Thailand Malaysia Republic of Ireland: 95 stores UK: 1,988 stores Czech Republic: 84 stores Hungary: 101 stores Slovakia: 48 stores Turkey: 30 stores Poland: 280 stores China: 47 stores Thailand: 370 stores Malaysia: 19 stores South Korea: 91 stores Japan: 109 stores 32 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate The UK is our biggest market and the core of our business United Kingdom We work hard to create value for customers, to earn their Number of stores 1,988 lifetime loyalty.
We try to deliver what customers want and we Sales area 27.8m sq ft treat people customers and our team as we like to be treated.
Year of entry 1924 New stores opened 106 Planned openings 2007 08 142 UK Every Little Helps Number of staff 270,417 We made further good progress Every Little Helps represents as it helps us to listen to our in the UK: coping well with everything we stand for, its not customers and try and respond recovering competitors by just a catchphrase or marketing to their changing needs.
delivering an improved shopping slogan.
As we have grown, so has Last year nearly one million new trip for customers.
the importance of Every Little customers signed up to Tesco Helps: over time, the different UK sales grew 9.0% to 35.6 billion Clubcard, and we gave away products and services we have last year 32.7 billion, with likeover 340 million in Clubcard diversified into has been so great, for-like growth of 5.6% including vouchers, in order to thank our we ran the risk of losing our way.
volume of 5.0% and 3.4% from customers for shopping with us.
We have relied on Every Little net new stores.
Excluding petrol, For them to make the most of Helps more and more over the like-for-like sales grew by 5.6%.
their vouchers, each customers years, to act as a common In our stores, we saw modest mailings are tailored to meet philosophy to bind us all together.
inflation of 0.2%, as our continued their individual needs.
Every operational decision we investment in lowering prices for Customers can also make the most make in Tesco is judged against customers was more than offset of their vouchers by exchanging what we call the shopping lists.
by the strength of seasonal freshthem for Clubcard deals which These lists determine what we food prices.
Increased productivity are worth four times the value.
strive to achieve every day: and good expense control have Our most popular deals are days enabled us to absorb significant that no-one tries harder out at attractions such as Alton external cost increases in the for customers Towers and Legoland, and we are year, arising mainly from higher we treat people how now partnering up with theme oil-related costs and increases we like to be treated parks in France and Germany for in local business taxes.
we are better for customers, even more adventurous days out.
Formats simpler for staff and cheaper In February 2007, we launched for Tesco.
We have developed the basic a partnership with the Open model of our stores into four Deceptively simple, but the key University so customers can different formats: Express, which to understanding Tesco is to see now use their Clubcard vouchers brings great food at low prices that our obsession with delivering to fund their learning, from a to local neighbourhoods: Metro, these promises is what we are beginners course in writing family which offers convenience to all about.
Unless it improves the history to a humanities degree.
Clubcard enables customers who live or work in basics of the customers shopping This year we started to reward city centres: in our Superstores trip, were not interested.
our customers for shopping in us to thank our customers can find everything an environmentally friendly way Clubcard customers.
they need for their weekly shop: with our Green Clubcard points.
Tesco Clubcard enables us to and in our Extra stores customers Customers receive points when thank our customers for shopping can find our full range of food they reuse carrier bags, and also with us and is a world-leading and also a comprehensive range when they recycle old mobile loyalty programme which allows of general merchandise including phone and inkjet printer cartridges.
us to better understand what our clothing, electricals and telecoms.
It is an integral part of how we run our business THE TESCO STORY 33 We currently employ over 270,000 members of staff in the UK.
Bar Hill Extra, UK 34 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate We currently have over 600 staff signed onto development programmes in Poland.
Katowice Hypermarket, Poland THE TESCO STORY 35 our expansion overseas includes six countries in Europe Our rate of expansion in European markets stepped up Czech Republic Number of stores 84 significantly in the year with 4.7m sq ft of new space added Sales area 4.1m sq ft representing almost 30% growth.
Year of entry 1996 New stores opened 49 Planned openings 2007 08 24 Czech Republic Poland Slovakia Number of staff 11,786 In the Czech Republic, our Against the background of In Slovakia, the success of our business has grown by almost an improving economy and a compact hypermarket format Hungary two-thirds in the year and is now consolidating retail industry in and a strong economy have Number of stores 101 one of the leaders in the market.
Poland, we are making very good underpinned good growth in Sales area 4.8m sq ft We again delivered strong profit progress, with rising sales, profits sales, profits and returns.
We now Year of entry 1994 growth despite competitive and returns.
Sales growth has have 25 such stores, approaching New stores opened 14 Planned market conditions and the continued to be strong, driven by half of our total space, with more openings 2007 08 24 challenges of integrating the sustained improvement in existing planned.
We introduced our 1k Number of staff 17,727 Carrefour and Edeka acquisitions.
store performance and a growing format this year opening the Conversion of the 11 Carrefour contribution from new space.
The first store at Vrable and we now Poland stores is almost complete, we development of our 1k around have six trading with nine more Number of stores 280 have a strong organic store 10,000 sq ft, 2k and 3k store planned this year.
Our organic Sales area 6.5m sq ft opening programme which will formats, as part of an enlarged expansion will add around 15% Year of entry 1995 add some 13% to our space in opening programme, is going to our space this year.
New stores opened 176 the current year and we have well.
The acquisition of the Leader Planned Turkey openings 2007 08 54 begun remodelling our department Price stores from Casino, which Our Kipa business in Turkey, Number of staff 21,491 stores with the first, at Brno, was announced last July and continues to grow strongly performing well.
completed in December has Republic of Ireland and profitably and now has accelerated our 1k format Hungary the capability and resources Number of stores 95 expansion and contributed to We continued to make progress to become a national business.
Sales area 2.3m sq ft a 37% overall space increase in Year of entry 1997 in Hungary, but although overall We now have 15 hypermarkets Poland.
Leader Price stores are New stores opened 7 sales grew, profit performance, trading, with the majority being converted rapidly to Tesco Planned was below budget.
The effects of now outside our base in Izmir, with, on average, 25% sales uplifts.
openings 2007 08 9 Government austerity measures including our first store in Thrace, Number of staff 11,087 Republic of Ireland last August on an already difficult with 24 more planned for the economic and retail environment Tesco Ireland delivered another current year.
The early introduction Slovakia have been severe.
Consumer excellent performance with of Express in Turkey has also gone Number of stores 48 spending levels are significantly improved profits and another year well, with 15 stores now trading, Sales area 2.5m sq ft down, with non-food categories of strong sales growth in existing including three in Antalya.
We Year of entry 1996 particularly affected.
Our new store opening have invested in creating the New stores opened 11 challenges we have a strong programme will be substantially infrastructure for a business of Planned openings 2007 08 17 market position which we have bigger this year with 240,000 scale initially in management Number of staff 8,061 continued to strengthen by sq ft, representing growth of and systems and also in supply lowering prices, expanding our over 10%, planned.
The new chain, with our first major Turkey store network and developing our 740,000 sq ft distribution centre distribution centre at Yasibasi Number of stores 30 infrastructure.
We opened 14 new at Donabate, in north Dublin, covering 400,000 sq ft, planned Sales area 1.1m sq ft stores during the year, including opened in April 2007.
Year of entry 2003 10 hypermarkets, and we plan competitive position is also New stores opened 22 to add 15% to our total space strong and were investing more Planned in the current year.
for customers for example, our openings 2007 08 49 Number of staff 3,469 largest ever programme of price cuts in Ireland, which started last summer, has been well-received.
36 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate with over eight million customers every week shopping in 636 stores across Asia.
China We have delivered a strong performance in Asia, despite Number of stores 47 challenging conditions in our two largest markets South Korea Sales area 4.2m sq ft and Thailand.
Year of entry 2004 New stores opened 8 Planned openings 2007 08 10 China Japan South Korea Number of staff 17,419 In China, we trade from 47 In a still subdued retail market In South Korea, Homeplus hypermarkets, mainly in Shanghai, in Japan we made progress, with continued to do well, with solid Japan and the first stores in Chinas modest overall sales growth but a sales and very strong profit growth Number of stores 109 other large regional markets stronger like-for-like performance.
in more challenging market Sales area 0.3m sq ft Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Our focus in the year has been conditions than in recent years.
Year of entry 2003 Beijing our first Tesco-fascia store on refining and developing the During the year, we opened New stores opened 7 Planned have opened well.
Our new trial Express-type stores into a 29 new stores and, including openings 2007 08 35 range of over 1,000 Tesco ownprofitable, expandable format extensions, almost 1m sq ft of Number of staff 3,405 brand lines have been well-received and implementing our Tesco in space.
Most of our new selling by customers.
Hymalls sales have a Box suite of operating systems area came from large Malaysia continued to grow strongly up successfully.
We now plan to push hypermarkets, but our Number of stores 19 overall by 19% in the year, with on with a much larger opening development programme is now Sales area 1.9m sq ft strengthening like-for-like sales programme of up to 35 new broadly-based with nearly 20% Year of entry 2001 as the year progressed.
As a result stores this year.
coming from store extensions, New stores opened 9 of carrying higher overheads as 21% from compact hypers and Planned Malaysia openings 2007 08 7 we invest to equip the business the remainder from the roll-out of Number of staff 5,820 Tesco Malaysia has made to grow faster, it made a small our successful Express convenience excellent progress, moving loss after tax and interest, of format, which now has almost 40 South Korea strongly through to profitability which our share was 6 million.
We have a strong Number of stores 91 in the year, delivering another year forward pipeline of new space, of strong over 50% sales growth, Sales area 5.1m sq ft including plans to double the Year of entry 1999 and achieving a near-doubling size of the Express business.
New stores opened 30 of space helped by the Makro Planned Thailand acquisition in January.
Substantial openings 2007 08 51 refits to the Makro stores have Political uncertainty in Thailand Number of staff 11,932 now begun, taking eight to nine during the second half of the weeks per store to complete and year produced an unhelpful Thailand involving significant changes business climate.
Nevertheless, Number of stores 370 to layouts and ranges.
We are Tesco Lotus, which has a strong Sales area 7.5m sq ft developing a very good market market position, again performed Year of entry 1998 position in Malaysia with a new well, delivering good growth in New stores opened 151 Planned store programme in place for sales and profit.
The successful openings 2007 08 162 this year which will add a further development and roll-out of new Number of staff 29,538 22% of space to our network.
small formats continues and to date, we have 370 stores trading across four formats, including 75 hypermarkets of which 17 are Value stores.
We also have 266 Express stores and 29 supermarkets which are proving very popular with customers.
THE TESCO STORY 37 Our offer is local, in response to local cultures, local customers, local supply chains and local regulations.
Dacheng E. store, Beijing, China 38 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate financial highlights growth on 2006 10.9% 13.2% 20.3% Group sales Underlying Group Group profit before tax including VAT profit before tax 11.6% 18.5% 11.7% Underlying diluted Diluted earnings Dividend per share earnings per share per share 2007 2006 2006 On a continuing operations basis 52 weeks 60 weeks 52 weeks Group sales m including value added tax 46,611 43,137 42,016 Group revenue m excluding value added tax 42,641 39,454 38,443 Underlying Group profit before tax m 2,545 2,277 2,248 Group profit before tax m 2,653 2,235 2,206 Underlying diluted earnings per share p 22.36 20.30 20.04 Diluted earnings per share p 23.31 19.92 19.67 Dividend per share p 9.64 8.63 Group enterprise value m market capitalisation plus net debt 40,469 30,841 Return on capital employed 12.6% 12.7% 12.5% Adjusted for IAS 32, IAS 39, the net difference between the IAS 19 income statement charge and normal cash contributions for pensions, the Pensions Adjustment Finance Act 2006 and impairment of the Gerrards Cross site.
Restated for the year ended 25 February 2006 including 52 weeks for the UK and ROI and a comparable 12 months March February for the majority of the remaining international businesses.
Including the one-off gain from Pensions A-Day, ROCE was 13.6%.
THE FOUR-PART STRATEGY 39 Chairmans statement As always, our results this year Our property funding programme This time last year we launched We are delighted have been produced by a clear, of 5 billion over five years, is well our Community Plan.
As a to be able to report consistent, well executed strategy.
underway, with the two recent responsible company we want to Tesco is a growth company and joint ventures delivering 1 billion play our part in tackling important strong results in the strategy is designed to deliver of proceeds.
So far, we have used social and environmental what has been a good growth and performance, almost 470 million to buy back challenges, and the Community while maintaining focus on and cancel our own shares.
We Plan has helped us channel the challenging year.
now plan to enlarge the property energy of the business into the Sales have increased funding programme beyond the right areas.
Im pleased to say UK sales are up 9.0%, including original 5 billion target and this that weve taken some major by 10.9% to strong like-for-like growth of will fund a doubling of our share new initiatives on milk pricing, on 5.6%, with good profit progress.
46.6 billion, Group buy-back to 3 billion.
carbon labelling, on regeneration At actual rates, international sales and on packaging.
These profit before tax As always, our people are working are up 17.9% and trading profits demonstrate the impetus this hard every day to do the very best before integration costs have is up by 20.3%.
programme now has in Tesco.
they can for customers and I am increased by 20.9%.
Our in-market Underlying profit pleased to say that during the Through our regeneration acquisitions in the Czech Republic, next year we are planning to partnership stores we have Poland and Malaysia have added has grown by create over 25,000 new jobs been able to offer jobs to almost to an already large organic store 13.2% to worldwide.
I would like to thank 4,000 long-term unemployed opening programme.
every single one of our staff for and disadvantaged people in 2,545 million.
Our non-food sales continue to their hard work over the year.
some of the most deprived areas grow throughout the Group, with Underlying diluted of Britain.
We have committed Through share ownership and worldwide sales of 10.4 billion, to reducing our packaging by share incentive schemes, over earnings per share and there is more to come, as we 25% by 2010.
We will also label 165,000 of our people have a develop our ranges, stores, and are up 11.6% all our packaging according to personal stake in Tesco.
whether it can be reused, recycled delighted that they were awarded and the full year Our retailing services are or composted: and if it cannot shares worth a record 77 million increasingly popular with dividend, which we will label that too.
The first last May under our Shares in customers.
Dotcom has labelled products will be on Success Scheme.
50,000 staff now benefits from performed very well this year, our shelves by 2008. were able to benefit when Save moving sales through the billion our rising flow of As You Earn schemes matured Our customers and staff continue pound mark.
Tesco Personal in February, giving them access to support our chosen charities and property profits, Finance continues to expand its to shares worth 148 million.
we are looking forward to working range of products, and telecoms is up 11.7%.
with our Charity of the Year for I would like to take this is seeing good growth in its 2007, the British Red Cross.
opportunity to welcome Lucy customer base.
Neville-Rolfe, as Executive Director of Corporate and Legal Affairs, to the Board.
David Reid Chairman 40 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Sir Terry Leahy THE FOUR-PART STRATEGY EARN LIFETIME LOYALTY F I N S T THE AISLES ARE CLEAR A R R N E E C A Y I CAN GET WHAT I WANT M E T T O P I T E WE ALWAYS SAVE TIME AND MONEY THE PRICES ARE GOOD N S O U U P I DONT QUEUE L WE KNOW HOW VITAL OUR JOBS ARE M C E M R H THE STAFF ARE GREAT O WE MAKE OUR JOBS EASIER TO DO O O F C W P R E GROW SALES W WE DELIVER CONSISTENTLY EVERY DAY E O 41 Chief Executives statement Tesco is investing for the future and delivering today.
These results demonstrate that we have again made good progress across the Group, whilst making significant start-up investment in new businesses and coping well with challenging conditions in some markets.
These results show that it has years of strong growth because We know one of the reasons Throughout all our been another successful year for in ten years, weve moved from for the strength of our shares is businesses across the Tesco.
The numbers are solid, the reliance on a market of 60 million property.
As market yields have growth is broadly based coming people to being able to access fallen, property has become a world, we measure from all four parts of our strategy markets with over two billion bigger element of the embedded our performance and we have delivered tangible people.
value in the business and benefits for shareholders.
weve played our part in raising Im also an investor in Tesco through the Steering awareness of this mainly by Im pleased about that because because I see the prospect of Wheel, whether we selling some.
The appetite for these things are never easy.
The rising returns by that I mean property is so strong that our two most encouraging thing about both return on capital employed work in distribution, recent Joint Venture JV deals this performance is that weve and the return of income and the office or in achieved a premium to bookvalue coped well with the head-wind capital to shareholders.
of almost 100%, on initial yields from recovering competitors, stores.
This helps Last year, we set a new return on under 4.5%.
This success, and the rising costs and tough conditions capital employed ROCE target maintain focus and good experience we have had in some markets.
Weve come to add another 200 basis points.
operating our stores in the JVs, through in good shape and balance in what ROCE grew in 2006 07, which is has encouraged us to do more.
weve done it by staying focused a great result given the start-up counts to run each Our enlarged property funding on doing the right things for costs in Tesco Direct and the US programme is behind the of our businesses our customers and at the same plus almost 400 million of doubling of the share buy-back.
time investing for future growth.
The successfully, be That said, property is an integral Im a committed Tesco underlying progress on ROCE has it wage costs or part of a retail business and it is shareholder.
For me, the Tesco been even stronger before the important that we strike the right investment case is about three effect of those factors it was up whether customers balance between returns today things: strong, sustainable growth 50 basis points and were on can get everything and value tomorrow.
So we will through serving customers: track to hit our target.
retain the necessary long-term disciplined investment: and good they want.
It has also been a good year for strategic strength we see in returns for the owners of the shareholder returns, which are ownership by keeping at least business now and in the long up 36%.
Of course, our shares 70% of our assets in term.
We have a good track record are higher in buoyant markets freehold.
of delivery on these things but were also doing more to and theres more to come.
Dividends are up to approaching 800 million, Growth driven by last years change in We have laid solid foundations for policy, combined with the effect future growth.
Our new businesses of our rising flow of property are coming of age they are profits now ranking for dividend.
profitable, they have scale and We have also bought back and they are competitive.
I believe cancelled almost 470 million they can now provide us with worth of our own shares so far.
E D P L R WE TRY TO GET IT RIGHT FIRST TIME L I A E K R H E MAXIMISE PROFIT E T S M O E I O BE A GOOD NEIGHBOUR B R E T T S MANAGE OUR INVESTMENT T E R U O N E C P O A E T AN OPPORTUNITY TO GET ON - R E O A BE RESPONSIBLE, FAIR AND HONEST D N T I AN INTERESTING JOB O N S A MANAGER WHO HELPS ME TO BE TREATED WITH RESPECT 42 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Chief Executives statement continued 25% increase in international space To sum up, our focus remains on As investors, you need to know It is about being flexible: being We have got much stronger in profitable growth building on that we see these things as local: maintaining focus on a few Central Europe, through rapid the solid foundations we have opportunities so it is also countries: using multi-formats growth in new space and laid over the last ten years.
At the important that Tesco leads.
to reach the whole market: acquisition.
For example, sales same time, were always looking developing capability: and finally, have increased by almost twoInternational to improve the way the owners once youve put in the networks, thirds in the Czech Republic Our biggest opportunity for of the business benefit from its about building the brand.
helped by the Carrefour and growth and for improved returns that growth.
Edeka stores taking us into I know this approach is now is International and it underlines the leading group of retailers in As a company we are putting more familiar to you but Im the breadth of our business.
In Poland, sales were increasing focus on our work going to highlight the significant Overall, we have produced a very up 22% with only a few weeks with communities and the developments of the past 12 good performance particularly contribution from the Leader Price environment.
Weve built our months using some of these six against the background of stores.
These are rapidly being success on listening to customers elements starting with focus.
political uncertainty and economic converted to our 1k format with and these things are growing in Through a combination of organic problems in three of our largest sales uplifts so far averaging 25%.
Thats why expansion and several good inmarkets Hungary, Thailand and Profits rose almost 50% in Poland.
I believe the battle to win their market acquisitions, weve made South Korea.
This demonstrates loyalty will increasingly be fought excellent progress in building Pushing on faster in these markets that International now has the not just on value for money, range stronger positions in all of our is paying dividends.
Not only are size and momentum to get and convenience, but on being existing countries.
returns improving but as the through these things and still good neighbours, behaving most profitable and rapidly Across our 11 markets, we opened deliver.
responsibly and seizing challenges growing retailer we are able to 8.2 million sq ft of space four such as climate change.
Two years ago I began to lay out participate in consolidation from a times the amount added in the how we had evolved a strategy position of strength and buy only I think these will be positives for UK and over 50% more than the for international expansion from the right assets at the right price.
Customers want to do the year before.
We plan to add over a decade of experience.
Today, right thing theyre just not 7.5 million sq ft more this year given how much retrenchment always sure how whether its all of it organic, even without the is going on among retailers with a healthier diet or consuming stores in the United States.
international ambitions, I think we in a greener way.
Its a classic can claim that this has developed consumer need and one which into one of the most successful I believe Tesco is well placed to if not the most successful meet.
Thats why weve made it approach to international retailing.
part of the Tesco Steering Wheel.
Right: Dacheng E. store, Beijing, China Far right: Selamattin Sicdaz, Bornova Forum, Turkey THE FOUR-PART STRATEGY 43 1,988 stores in the United Kingdom In Asia as well, having done the Our 1k stores are popular with We plan to open a significant Not only are returns still groundwork in a couple of our customers and we now have number of stores at launch improving, cash flows are strong newer markets, weve used over 200 of them trading across across LA, Phoenix, Las Vegas too.
EBITDA in International was acquisition to get on faster.
The universal and San Diego and weve over 800 million in 2006 07. eight Makro stores will double appeal of Express means that it made good progress in obtaining After working capital gains, this our space in Malaysia when trades from almost a million sq ft quality real estate for them.
means that International funded converted.
In China, weve taken of our international space.
It is more than 90% of its own CAPEX.
International returns are making a controlling interest in Hymall, well established in Thailand, steady progress towards the midUnited Kingdom which now has 47 hypermarkets, where we have a good forward teens numbers we require At the start of the year, we set including stores in Guangzhou programme and we will double improving to 11.5% with a high out to make progress in an and Shenzhen, plus the first the number of Expresses in South proportion of capital over 70% environment with recovering Tesco branded store in Beijing Korea this year to 79 stores.
competitors and cautious all of which opened well.
90% Our trials in Japan are going well Looking at the significant changes consumers feeling the full effect ownership will free the business and we already have 15 Express over the last 12 months for returns of last years energy cost and from capital constraints and stores in Turkey.
Our first Central by country not surprisingly, interest rate rises.
Because weve permit a faster rate of growth, European Express in Prague Hungary has slipped a bit been on good form operationally, through freehold development.
because weve chosen to push we have coped well with those Our progress with multi-format The principles behind these on with expansion in a very weak things delivering good sales has been very good, giving us formats are common, but the economy.
South and also strong profit growth, whilst more options for expansion and offer is local designed by local Korea and Thailand have improved carrying more than 40 million extending our reach into markets.
Weve but the really pleasing thing is of start-up costs on Tesco Direct Our experience means that we used this approach in putting that Poland which is our third and the United States.
are able to calibrate formats together our 10,000 sq ft Fresh & largest investment and the Czech Two factors have been driving more quickly for local customers, Easy Neighborhood Market format Republic have both improved this.
First, the real improvements get to profitability and move for the US.
Preparations for the compared with last year to likeweve made to the shopping trip faster into roll-out.
launch later this year are going for-like cash return on investment for customers.
We have a strong team of CROI approaching 10%.
better but I want to highlight over 150 at El Segundo and the a few things weve done this construction of our 820,000 sq ft year on price, service, range distribution centre at Riverside and availability.
Right: Pitsea Extra, UK Far right: Carol Sargeant, Pitsea Extra, UK 44 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Chief executives statement continued 11,000 products available through Tesco Direct Our price check survey, which On-shelf availability, which we We can see these changes all Most of our established compares 10,000 prices against measure using our in-store picking around the store with healthy categories, which benefit less our leading competitors weekly, of tesco.
com orders, has also foods growing nearly twice as fast from new space, grew well.
For shows that our position has improved again and more as the rest of the business.
A good example, health and beauty sales improved again during the year.
customers are able to buy example is Organics where sales increased by 9% and so did news everything they want.
The most are growing four times faster.
The exception On service, the implementation marked increase has been just 12 months the proportion of was entertainment, where we of new checkout technology achieved in fresh foods, where our customers buying organics is saw market share gains but weak across our stores means that we we have seen a fifth consecutive up by over a third to more than sales driven by deflation and the can now monitor and manage year of improvement.
40% and the growth is fastest increase in downloading.
We the checkout service customers among less affluent customers.
are putting plans together to receive much more precisely For decades, food has been build a strong position in the by customer, by store and by the a falling proportion of total Non-food has again made very digital market.
As a result, over 350,000 consumer spending.
As a business good progress, with sales growing more customers a week benefit we have contributed to this significantly faster than in our core Our newer categories again saw from our one-in-front checkout by cutting prices to help people operations.
It is now a 7.6 billion excellent growth.
That wont change business in the UK alone and grew well up by 16% in a but the long-term trend of well over 10 billion for the Group tough market, which was partly Weve also made significant declining spend on food has as a whole.
changes to our food ranges in changed it has stopped.
We made strong market share response to customer demand, UK non-food sales growth was gains by volume and value.
Some introducing more Organics, This is significant and I believe 11.6% in the year and volume product groups, to which we have free from, Healthy Living, were seeing a fundamental shift growth was even higher, driven by been able to allocate more space Wholefoods, Fairtrade and Kids in the priority consumers place our ability to pass on lower prices in our larger Extra stores, did products, as well as over 1,000 on food.
The link between diet to customers.
Consumer more premium lines including and health, interest in cooking, deflation was over 3%, funded electronics were up 35%, toys over 250 Finest.
provenance including local and by our growing scale and supply and sport up 30%, DIY and Fairtrade it is more than simply chain efficiency and the benefits stationery were both up 23%.
It is also not just about of more direct sourcing in Asia.
affluent customers its everyone and that means it could be a big long term positive for our industry.
Right and far right: Chelmsford Homeplus, UK THE FOUR-PART STRATEGY 45 250,000 tesco.
com orders each week Our overall non-food market share Our retailing services, another Summary is 8%.
With our relatively low indicator of the growing breadth In summary: market shares in many categories, of the business, have made Tesco is about growth and we the growing popularity of our offer further good progress helped by are confident of sustaining with customers, the scope to our position as a leading internet strong growth into the future expand our stores and also sell retailer.
Dotcom was on excellent We do this by following the more though direct channels, form, with sales up 29% and customer and as they change, there is a lot of growth to come.
profits before the start-up costs we change of Tesco Direct increasing Last September, we started Tesco nearly 50%.
At the same time, we can deliver Direct in a low-key way to let improving returns and tangible customers know about it, test Tesco Personal Finance TPF benefits for shareholders the systems and make sure the hasnt been immune from the logistics were ok.
This went well, effects of a difficult retail financial We are playing our part in so a month ago we were able to services market.
However, Im tackling some of the social go live on the full launch with optimistic for the future.
TPF is the and environmental challenges 11,000 items on our website, best business of its kind in the we all face 7,000 of which are in our catalogue.
market, it is high returning and Weve delivered strong results under the new team there, I think As well as great prices and across the Group by making it will get back to a faster rate of wider ranges, Tesco Direct offers shopping better for customers growth.
50% of TPFs product customers an unrivalled choice Tesco is about investing for the sales are now on-line, providing of ordering and delivery options.
future and delivering today a strong platform from which Two-hour home delivery slots and Im confident that the to build.
So business is well-placed to meet has the option to pick-up from Telecoms passed an important the challenges which lie ahead.
store which is why were going milestone in the year when it to make it available in as many moved into profit during the stores as possible starting second half.
Customer numbers with 200 from this year.
The also rose strongly, attracted by feedback on the launch has been its combination of simple, great good the catalogue has been value tariffs, good service and extremely well received and innovative new products.
Terry Leahy Chief Executive volumes are encouraging.
Right and far right: Royston Extra, UK 46 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate the Board 12 34 5678 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 47 # Member of the Audit Committee David Potts is also responsible for Tesco Ireland.
Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee 1.
DR HARALD EINSMANN # Non-executive Chairman International and IT Director Retail and Logistics Director 73 Non-executive Director David Reid became Non-executive Philip Clarke was appointed to David Potts was appointed to Dr Harald Einsmann was Chairman on 2 April 2004.
Prior to the Board on 16 November 1998. the Board on 16 November 1998. appointed a Non-executive his appointment he was Deputy Prior to his appointment he He joined Tesco in 1973.
He is Chairman of Tesco PLC and has held a number of roles in store 1997 he directed the integration on the Board of Carlson Group served on the Tesco Board since operations, commercial and of our businesses in Northern of Companies and Checkpoint 1985.
He is a Non-executive Ireland and the Republic of Systems Inc. and is on the Board Director of Reed Elsevier Group PLC Director of Whitbread PLC.
Ireland before returning to the UK of Stora Enso Oy, part of the and Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group.
in 2000 as Director responsible Wallenberg Group, as well as for UK Retail Operations.
From on the Board of Rezidor AB 6.
ANDREW HIGGINSON 49 2004, Davids responsibilities have in Sweden.
RODNEY CHASE CBE 63 Finance and Strategy Director included the UK supply chain.
Deputy Chairman and Andrew Higginson was appointed Senior Non-executive to the Board on 17 November 14.
KEN HYDON 62 Rodney Chase was appointed 1997.
CHARLES ALLEN CBE 50 Non-executive Director a Non-executive Director on 100 Group of Finance Directors, Non-executive Director Ken Hydon was appointed 1 July 2002.
He is Non-executive Chairman of Tesco Personal Charles Allen was appointed a Non-executive Director on Chairman of Petrofac Limited Finance and a Non-executive a Non-executive Director on 23 February 2004.
He is also and a Non-executive Director of Director of BSkyB PLC.
He was Chief a Non-executive Director of Computer Sciences Corporation also responsible for retailing Executive of ITV PLC from 2004 Reckitt Benckiser PLC, The Royal in Los Angeles, Nalco Company services, including tesco.
He is a Non-executive Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust in Chicago and Tesoro Corporation Tesco Telecoms and Tesco Direct.
Director of the London Organising and Pearson PLC.
He also serves as Committee of the Olympics and Senior Advisor to Lehman Brothers Paralympics.
TIM MASON 49 both in the United States and Non-executive Director President and Chief Executive Europe.
KAREN COOK 53 Carolyn McCall was appointed Officer Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market Non-executive Director a Non-executive Director on 3.
SIR TERRY LEAHY 51 Tim Mason was appointed to Karen Cook was appointed a Non- 1 March 2005.
She is Chief Chief Executive the Board on 16 February 1995. executive Director on 1 October Executive of the Guardian Media Terry Leahy became Chief He joined Tesco in 1982 and 2004.
She is a Managing Director Group PLC, which comprises Executive in 1997.
Joining has been President of our US of Goldman Sachs International The Guardian and The Observer Tesco in 1979, he held a number operations since 2006. and President of Goldman Sachs, newspapers and websites, a of marketing and commercial Europe.
She is also a member of regional media group, a radio positions prior to being appointed the firms European Management division and Trader Media Group.
LUCY NEVILLE-ROLFE CMG to the Board of Tesco PLC on Committee and Partnership She chairs Opportunity Now, 54 Corporate and Legal 5 October 1992.
the UKs leading membership Lucy Neville-Rolfe was appointed organisation working towards to the Board in December.
She gender equality and diversity 4.
E MERVYN DAVIES CBE joined Tesco in 1997 and was in the workplace.
Commercial and 54 Non-executive Director UK Marketing Director Company Secretary from 2004- Mervyn Davies was appointed Richard Brasher was appointed 2006.
She is Deputy Chair of the a Non-executive Director on 16.
JONATHAN LLOYD 40 to the Board on 15 March 2004.
British Retail Consortium and 7 July 2003.
He is Chairman Company Secretary He joined Tesco in 1986.
He has a member of the China Britain of Standard Chartered PLC.
Jonathan Lloyd was appointed held a number of marketing, Business Council and of the Company Secretary to the commercial and store operations Corporate Leaders Group on Board in December 2006. positions, most recently UK Climate Change.
He joined Tesco as Deputy marketing directing.
Company Secretary and Corporate Secretariat Director in April 2005 from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
48 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Summary Directors Report Principal activity and business review The principal activity of the Group is retailing and Independent auditors statement to the members of Tesco PLC associated activities in the UK, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, the Republic of Ireland, Slovakia, Turkey, China, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, and Thailand.
We have also announced We have examined the summary financial statements our plans to open in the United States.
The summary financial statement and Operating and which comprises the Summary Consolidated Income Statement, Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet, Financial Review is on pages 50 to 52.
Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.83p per ordinary Summary Directors Remuneration Report set out on share to be paid on 6 July 2007 to members on the Register at the close of business on pages 48 to 52.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.81p per ordinary share paid in Respective responsibilities of Directors December 2006, the total dividend for the year will be 9.64p, compared with 8.63p for the and auditors The Directors are responsible for previous year, an increase of 11.7%.
preparing the summarised annual report in accordance with United Kingdom law.
Directors Details of the current members of the Board are shown on pages 46 and 47.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on Mr E M Davies, Dr H Einsmann, Mr K J Hydon, Mr D T Potts and Mr D E Reid retire from the the consistency of the summary financial statement Board by rotation and, being eligible offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General within the summarised annual report with the full Meeting AGM.
Miss L Neville-Rolfe joined the Board in December 2006, and as required annual financial statements, the Directors Report by the Articles of Association, will offer herself for election at the AGM.
and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section Corporate governance Tesco PLC is committed to the highest standards of corporate 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations governance.
The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in all respects with the Combined made thereunder.
Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice for the year ended 24 February We also read the other information contained in 2007.
A full corporate governance statement is contained in the Annual Report and Financial the summarised annual report and consider the Statements 2007. implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Summary report of the Directors on remuneration with the summary financial statement.
Directors remuneration policy It is the role of the Remuneration Committee to determine This statement, including the opinion, has been and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for the Chairman and Executive prepared for and only for the Companys members Directors.
Tesco has a policy of rewarding talent and experience and seeks to provide incentives as a body in accordance with section 251 of the for delivering high growth and high returns for shareholders.
The current remuneration strategy Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume is tailored to reward the delivery of strong year-on-year earnings growth as well as sustained responsibility for any other purpose or to any other performance in the longer term.
person to whom this statement is shown or into Compliance The Remuneration Committee has been constituted and operated throughout whose hands it may come save where expressly the year in accordance with the principles outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Authority derived from Schedule A and B of the 2003 Revised Combined Code.
In framing the Basis of opinion We conducted our work in remuneration policy, full consideration is given to best practice.
The Remuneration Report accordance with Bulletin 1999 06, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement complies with the disclosures required by the Director Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports A summary of Directors emoluments and interests is set out on page 49.
The full on the Companys full annual financial statements Remuneration Report is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007. describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of Tesco PLC for the year ended 24 February 2007 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Benefits and allowances were paid to Mr T J R Mason in line with the Tesco approach to expatriate transfers including one-off payments for relocation, and travel and localisation costs including schooling.
For future years this will be reduced to a non-pensionable salary supplement and a more focussed package of benefits which recognises ongoing expatriate costs including travel, medical and tax-related costs and services.
Mr T J R Masons short-term cash bonus includes cash compensation payments in respect of accumulated share rights from existing plans paid in cash as a result of his move to the US.
b With the exception of Mr T J R Mason, benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount and gym leisure club membership.
c The long-term bonus figures shown in table 1 relate to the additional 12.5% enhancements allocated in May 2006 on short-term and long-term awards under the old bonus scheme.
The long-term bonuses awarded on 20 July 2006 under the Performance Share Plan were awarded in the form of nil cost options with the exception of Mr T J R Mason who received an unfunded promise to deliver shares.
Details of this award are shown in table 6. d Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed on 14 December 2006.
The figures in table 1 are calculated from the date of her appointment.
Disclosable interests of the Directors, including family interests Number of shares Value Options Options Exercise price realisable Ordinary held at held at of outstanding during shares at 25 February 24 February options 2006 07 24 February 2006 a Granted Exercised 2007 a pence 000 2007 b Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy 5,745,347 1,436,920 1,671 7,180,596 0.00 318.6 4 6,161,039 Mr R Brasher 1,763,401 715,619 347,564 2,131,456 0.00 318.6 469 195,483 Mr P A Clarke 2,185,101 820,688 831,122 2,174,667 0.00 318.6 1,030 1,491,104 Mr A T Higginson 2,585,673 820,688 1,231,694 2,174,667 0.00 318.6 2,270 1,674,052 Mr T J R Mason 2,585,005 416,540 872,725 2,128,820 0.00 318.6 1,025 1,963,153 Miss L Neville-Rolfe c 360,012 360,012 159.0 318.6 255,883 Mr D T Potts 1,856,916 820,688 502,937 2,174,667 0.00 318.6 824 1,843,088 Non-Executive Directors Mr C L Allen Mr R F Chase 52,653 Mrs K Cook Mr E M Davies 2,400 Dr H Einsmann 209,353 Mr K J Hydon 30,093 Ms C McCall 6,408 Mr D E Reid Chairman 193,347 a Options to acquire ordinary shares shown above comprise options held under the Executive Share Option schemes, Discretionary Share Option Plan, Save As You Earn scheme, and nil cost options under the Performance Share Plan and Executive Incentive Plan.
b Ordinary shares shown in this table include shares held under incentive plans and shares awarded to Mr T J R Mason under the Performance Share Plan in 2006 in the form of a promise to deliver shares.
c Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2006.
No options have been granted or exercised since the date of her appointment.
50 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Summary Financial Statement and Operating and Financial Review Income statement Group sales, including VAT, increased by 8.1% Record efficiency savings of 350 million were delivered by our Step to 46.6 billion 2006 43.1 billion and by 10.9% on a comparable Change programme, which bring together many initiatives to make 52-week basis.
At constant exchange rates, sales grew by 7.9% and what we do better for customers, simpler for staff and cheaper for Tesco.
Group profit before tax increased by 18.7% to Total international sales grew by 5.3% to 11.0 billion.
On a comparable 2,653 million 2006 2,235 million and by 20.3% on a comparable 52-week basis, sales increased by 17.9% at actual rates.
Underlying profit before tax excluding IAS 32 and IAS 39 contributed 564 million to trading profit, up 10.8% at actual rates and the non-cash elements of IAS 19, which are replaced by the normal up 18.0% on a comparable 52-week basis.
cash contributions increased to 2,545 million, up by 11.8% 13.2% In the rest of Europe, sales rose by 8.7% at actual rates to 6.3 billion on a comparable 52-week basis.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 2006 5.8 billion, and 18.7% on a comparable 52-week basis.
grew by 10.1% 11.6% on a comparable 52-week basis to 22.36p and Trading profit increased to 318 million, up 17.3% on both a statutory diluted earnings per share increased by 17.0% 18.5% on a comparable and comparable 52-week basis.
In Asia, sales rose by 1% to 4.7 billion 52-week basis to 23.31p.
2006 4.7 billion, and 16.8% on a comparable 52-week basis.
A final dividend of 6.83p per ordinary share 2006 6.10p is proposed.
Trading profit increased to 246 million, up 3.4% and 18.8% on Together with the interim dividend of 2.81p 2006 2.53p already paid, a comparable 52-week basis.
this brings the full year dividend to 9.64p 2006 8.63p an increase of We have also announced our plans to open in the United States.
Total profit net of tax and interest from joint ventures and associates UK sales increased by 9.0% to 35.6 billion with like-for-like growth for the year was 106 million compared to 82 million last year.
of 5.6% including volume of 5.0% and 3.4% from net new stores.
Tesco Personal Finance profit was 130 million, of which our share Inflation overall was a modest 0.2%, as our continued investment in was 65 million.
lowering prices for customers was more than offset by the strength Net finance costs for the year were 126 million 2006 127 million.
of seasonal fresh food prices.
Tax has been charged at an effective rate of 29.1% 2006 29.0%.
Increased productivity and good cost control have enabled us to absorb significant external cost increases in the year, arising mainly from higher oil-related costs and increases in local business taxes.
Consequently, UK operating profit was 16.5% higher at 2,083 million 2006 1,788 million.
Trading profit rose 9.2% to 1,914 million, with trading margins similar to last year at 5.9%.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 51 Summary Group Income Statement The summary financial statement on pages 51 and Year ended 24 February 2007 52 and the summary Directors report on pages 48 2007 2006 and 49 are a summary of information in the Annual m m Report and Financial Statements 2007.
This summary Continuing operations financial statement does not contain sufficient Revenue sales excluding VAT 42,641 39,454 information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Cost of sales 39,401 36,426 Company and the Group.
Pensions adjustment Finance Act 2006 258 Impairment of the Gerrards Cross site 35 The Directors report, the accounts and Auditors report on those accounts, which is unqualified, are contained Gross profit 3,463 3,028 in a separate publication entitled Annual Report and Administrative expenses 907 825 Financial Statements 2007.
Copies may be obtained Profit arising on property-related items 92 77 free of charge by writing to: Operating profit 2,648 2,280 The Company Secretary, Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates Tesco PLC, including 47 million of property-related items 2005 06 nil 106 82 Tesco House, Profit on sale of investments in associates 25 Delamare Road, Finance income 90 114 Cheshunt, Finance costs 216 241 Hertfordshire EN8 9SL.
Taxation 772 649 Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual Report and Profit for the year for continuing operations 1,881 1,586 Financial Statements as well as the Annual Review and Discontinued operation Summary Financial Statement in future years should Profit loss for the year from discontinued operation 18 10 write to this address.
Profit for the year 1,899 1,576 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 1,892 1,570 The summary financial statement was Minority interests 7 6 approved by the Board on 16 April 2007.
1,899 1,576 Sir Terry Leahy Andrew Higginson Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations Directors Basic 23.84p 20.07p Diluted 23.54p 19.79p Earnings per share from continuing operations Basic 23.61p 20.20p Diluted 23.31p 19.92p Non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax m m Profit before tax 2,653 2,235 Adjustments for: IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial instruments Fair value remeasurements 4 9 Total IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions 432 303 Normal cash contributions for pensions 321 270 Exceptional items: Pensions adjustment Finance Act 2006 258 Impairment of the Gerrards Cross site 35 Underlying profit before tax 2,545 2,277 Underlying diluted EPS 22.36p 20.30p Results for the year ended 25 February 2006 includes 52 weeks for the UK and Republic of Ireland and 14 months for the majority of the remaining international businesses.
52 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Summary Financial Statement and Operating and Financial Review continued Summary Group balance sheet Balance sheet Net assets have increased by 1,127 million to 24 February 2007 10,571 million.
Non-current assets increased by 1,587 million, 24 Feb 25 Feb after charging depreciation and amortisation of 878 million.
2007 2006 m m Group capital expenditure was 3.0 billion.
UK capital expenditure Non-current assets 20,231 18,644 was 1.9 billion, including 687 million on new stores and 295 million Current assets including assets held for sale 4,576 3,919 on extensions and refits.
Total international capital expenditure rose to Current liabilities 8,152 7,518 1.1 billion, 0.4 billion in Asia and 0.7 billion in Europe.
In the year Net current liabilities 3,576 3,599 ahead we forecast Group capital expenditure to be around 3.5 billion.
Total assets less current liabilities 16,655 15,045 Non-current liabilities 6,084 5,601 Net assets 10,571 9,444 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 10,506 9,380 Minority interests 65 64 Total equity 10,571 9,444 Summary Group cash flow statement Year ended 24 February 2007 Cash flow statement Overall, the Group generated a net cash outflow 2007 2006 of 265 million, leaving net debt of 5.0 billion at the year end, m m 0.5 billion higher than last year.
Cash generated from operations 3,532 3,412 Interest paid 376 364 Corporation tax paid 545 429 Net cash from operating activities 2,611 2,619 Net cash used in investing activities 2,343 1,962 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 467 441 Other net cash flows on financing activities 66 51 Net cash used in financing activities 533 492 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 265 165 Cash inflow outflow from decrease from debt and lease financing 268 115 Net debt included within disposal group 55 Other non-cash changes 18 357 Increase in net debt in the year 515 22 Opening net debt at beginning of year 4,509 4,487 Closing net debt at end of year 5,024 4,509 Results for the year ended 25 February 2006 includes 52 weeks for the UK and Republic of Ireland and 14 months for the majority of the remaining international businesses.
Tesco Performance graph The Groups total shareholder return performance ie.
share price movements plus dividends reinvested over the last five 170 financial years relative to the FTSE 100 index of companies is shown here.
This index has been selected to provide an established and 140 FTSE broad-based comparator group of retail and non-retail companies 110 of similar scale to Tesco, against which the Groups TSR performance can be measured.
80 There has also been a very strong performance in TSR over the last three and five years against a comparator group of our major retail 50 competitors in the UK, Europe and the US.
2 Operating profit includes integration costs and profit loss arising on sale of property related items.
3 UK GAAP underlying profit excluded net profit loss on disposal of fixed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
4 IFRS underlying profit excludes IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments Fair value remeasurements and the IAS 19 Income Statement charge for pensions, which is replaced by the normal cash contributions.
For the years 2003 to 2005, the above information is presented under UK GAAP as previously published.
If IFRS had been applicable for these years the main adjustments would have been IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment, IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
5 Diluted and basic earnings per share are on a continuing operations basis.
6 Dividend per share relating to the interim and proposed final dividend.
7 The numerator is profit before interest, less tax.
The denominator is the calculated average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for sale.
8 Store sizes exclude lobby and restaurant areas.
9 Based on average number of full-time equivalent employees in the UK, and revenue exclusive of VAT.
10 Includes one-off gains from Pensions A-Day, without this one-off gain, ROCE was 12.6%.
54 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Investor information continued Shareholder profile Number of Ordinary Shares held at Number of holdings % 24 February 2007 % Analysis by type of shareholder Employees 48,615 16.98 128,932,792 1.62 Other individuals 218,950 76.45 439,249,566 5.53 Corporate institutions 18,826 6.57 7,379,167,200 92.85 286,391 100.00 7,947,349,558 100.00 Analysis by size of shareholding 1 1,000 187,571 65.49 43,491,398 0.55 1,001 10,000 85,203 29.75 272,328,816 3.43 10,001 100,000 11,933 4.17 275,208,348 3.46 100,001 1,000,000 1,083 0.38 352,735,665 4.44 above 1,000,000 601 0.21 7,003,585,331 88.12 286,391 100.00 7,947,349,558 100.00 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 55 Financial calendar Registrar and Shareholding Enquiries Security reminder If you have administrative enquiries about your holding of Tesco PLC Under the Companies Act we are obliged to hold all shareholders shares other than ADRs please contact: names and addresses on a register of members and give a copy of this list to Registrar of Companies every year.
Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, The Registrar of Companies makes this list available to anyone who Worthing, requests it and many companies use this information sometimes West Sussex BN99 6DA matching it to telephone records to market their services.
Tesco PLC Telephone 0870 600 3970 has no relationship with, and does not endorse any of the services offered by these companies.
Consolidated Tax Vouchers If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society account If you are concerned about any direct mailing or telephone calls you will receive one tax voucher each year.
The consolidated tax voucher purporting to be from Tesco, please contact us by writing to the will be sent to you in December at the time that the interim dividend is Company Secretary, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, paid and will cover both dividend payments in the tax year.
This will help Hertfordshire EN8 9SL or by calling us on 01992 632222. you to complete your tax return.
This does not affect your dividends or the Customer Services tax that you pay in any way.
If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher Tesco Customer Services with each dividend payment rather than one consolidated tax voucher Freepost SC02298 each tax year, please call our shareholder helpline on 0870 600 3976.
Dundee DD1 9NF If your dividend is not currently paid directly to your bank or building Telephone 0800 505555 society account and you would like to benefit from this service please Investor Relations contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3976 and they will be pleased Investor Relations Department to arrange this for you.
By choosing to receive your dividends in this way Tesco PLC, you can avoid the risk of cheques getting lost in the post and ensure Tesco House, you receive your dividends on the payment day.
Delamare Road, Note: Consolidated Tax Vouchers are not available to institutional Cheshunt, shareholders.
Hertfordshire EN8 9SL Telephone 01992 646484 Tesco Website The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Secretary and Registered Office the financial information on our website.
This information has been Mr Jonathan Lloyd prepared under relevant accounting standards and legislation.
Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Tesco information, including the Annual Report and Financial Delamare Road, Statements 2007 and our Corporate Responsibility Review 2007, Cheshunt, is available on our website: www.
com corporate Hertfordshire EN8 9SL Electronic Communications Telephone 01992 632222 You can register for Shareview, a free on-line share information and dealing service operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Once you have registered you can: check your shareholding access shareholder information elect to receive information electronically, getting quick Financial Calendar access to these important documents and helping to save 2007 the environment by reducing the amount of paper used Financial year end 24 February vote on the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
Results announced 17 April Final dividend: ex-dividend date 25 April To register, log on to www.
co. uk and click on register now.
Final dividend: record date 27 April Your rights as a shareholder will not be affected in any way.
If you AGM 29 June have any questions about the service, please call 0870 600 3976.
Final dividend: payment date 6 July Half year end 25 August Interim dividend: ex-dividend date 10 October Interim dividend: record date 12 October Interim dividend: payment date 21 December 56 Tesco PLC Annual review 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate 55 Florence and Fred 10 Regeneration 17, 39 Formats 17, 18, 32, 35, Republic of Ireland 21, 22, 25, 31, 35 36, 42, 43 Retailing services 22, 39, 45 Free From 10, 44 Retail ready packaging 9 Fresh and Easy 18, 19, 43 As everything we do is for our customers, they are referred to on every page.
Designed and produced by Corporate Edge 020 7855 5888 The Cover is printed on Revive 50:50 silk which is produced using 50% recovered fibre and 50% FSC certified virgin wood fibre.
Cover: Dacheng E. store, Beijing, China Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL
