DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INCLUDING ADOPTION In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: OF GOING CONCERN BASIS select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors 1 Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent : applicable law and regulations.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation financial statements: to prepare the Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, and other irregularities.
liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Directors are also required to: in other jurisdictions.
properly select and apply accounting policies: GOING CONCERN present information, including accounting policies, in a manner After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources information: and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
requirements in IFRSs are insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|49
