Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Autonomy Corporation plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985.
The registered office is at Autonomy House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out on page 9.
The companys functional currency is sterling as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.
The presentational currency is dollars as that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Adoption of new and current standards In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial instruments and management of capital see note 27.
Four Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.
These are: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements a revised presentation IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs: IFRS 8 Operating segments: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes: and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of equity investments and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the company are set out below.
"b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries, together the Group"" made up to 31 December each year."
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
27 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued c Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for using the method of proportionate consolidation.
The application of this method combines on a line-byline basis the assets, liabilities, income and expense of joint ventures with those of the group.
If the group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture only that portion of the gain or loss attributable to the interests of the other venturers is recognized.
d Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale see below.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the groups interest in those associates are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Where a group company transacts with an associate of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
e Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous US GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
f Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales taxes.
The group generates revenues from licensing the rights to use its software products directly to end-users and indirectly through resale by resellers.
The group also generates revenues from hosted services, sales of consulting, customer support and training services performed for customers that licence its products.
Revenues from software licence agreements are recognised where there is persuasive evidence of an agreement with a customer contract and or binding purchase order, delivery of the software has taken place, collectability is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
If an acceptance period is required, revenues are recognised upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period.
Revenue is recognized on contracts with credit terms of up to one year providing that the customer passes defined credit-worthiness checks.
If significant post-delivery obligations exist or if a sale is subject to customer acceptance, revenues are deferred until no significant obligations remain or acceptance has occurred.
The group enters into reseller arrangements that typically provide for fees payable to the group based on agreed discounted license rates.
Sales are generally recognised as reported by the reseller in resale of the groups products to end-users.
Sales are recognised if all products subject to resale are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
The group also enters into OEM agreements that may provide for the payment of advance license royalties and ongoing license royalty obligations.
In certain circumstances, advance royalties are recognised upon the initial contract if all products subject to sub-licensing are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
Revenues from hosted services are separated, using the residual method, into capture and data restoration services and archival services.
Revenues for capture and data restoration are recognised in the period in which they are delivered.
Revenues for archival services are recognised over the term of the service, which is generally 36 months.
Autonomy Corporation plc 28 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenues from customer support services are recognised rateably over the term of the support period.
If customer support services are included free or at a discount in a licence agreement, these amounts are allocated out of the license fee at their fair market value based on the value established by independent sale of the customer support services to customers.
Consulting revenues are primarily related to implementation services performed on a time and materials basis under separable service arrangements related to the installation of the groups software products.
Revenues from consulting and training services are recognised as services are performed.
If a transaction includes both license and service elements, licence fee revenue is recognised upon shipment of the software, provided services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licenses are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In cases where licence fee payments are contingent upon the acceptance of services, revenues from both the licence and the service elements are deferred until the acceptance criteria are met.
Cost of licence revenues includes the cost of royalties due on third party licences, cost of product media, product duplication and manuals.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to archival services and customer support fees, which have been invoiced to the customer prior to the performance of these services.
Deferred revenue is generally recognised over a period of one to three years.
g Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
h Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into US.
dollars at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are denominated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
i Profit from operations Profit from operations is stated before investment income and finance costs.
j Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
29 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
k Property, plant and equipment Leasehold improvements, fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Leasehold improvements Over shorter of economic useful life and lease term Fixtures and equipment Over 35 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
l Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: - an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : - it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: - the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably: and - the product from which the asset arises meets the groups criteria for technical feasibility.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which is 3 years.
Where no internallygenerated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
m Other intangible assets excluding goodwill Other intangible assets excluding goodwill are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, on the following bases: Patents and trademarks 3 years Software licences 3 years Purchased intangibles 3 12 years.
n Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
o Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Autonomy Corporation plc 30 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued p Provisions Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
q Share-based payments The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2004.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black Scholes model.
r Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial Assets Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-tomaturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future: or it is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 27.
31 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Available for sale financial assets Unlisted shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is included in profit or loss for the period.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive the dividends is established.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The change in fair value attributable to translation differences that result from a change in amortised cost of the asset is recognised in profit or loss, and other changes are recognised in equity.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For shares classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets, including redeemable notes classified as AFS and finance lease receivables, objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of 60 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognised through profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Autonomy Corporation plc 32 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities All financial liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments The Group does not use derivative financial instruments.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty a Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management have made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are discussed below.
Revenue recognition There are no significant judgements which management consider have a material impact on the financial statements.
The accounting policy set out in note 2 has been followed with no significant judgements required to be made.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Recoverability of internally generated intangible assets During the year $6.9 million 2006: $3.2 million of internally generated intangible assets were capitalised as required in accordance with IAS 38.
Management have assessed expected revenues to be generated from these assets and deemed that no adjustment is required to the carrying value of the assets.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows of the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $820.1 million 2006: $415.8 million.
Trade receivables The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates their fair value.
A provision has been made for estimated unrecoverable amounts based on information available to management.
Changes in collectability of trade receivables may impact the level of provision required.
33 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.
Segmental analysis Whilst the group currently operates under a number of different divisions, the groups core technology, types of revenue and associated costs and returns are comparable.
Each of these divisions is founded on the groups unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer, the groups core infrastructure for automating the handling of all forms of unstructured information.
As a result, the group maintains only one reportable business segment, as is reflected in the reporting in this annual report.
The groups operations are located primarily in the United Kingdom, the US and Canada.
The company also has a significant presence in a number of other European countries as well as China, Japan, Singapore and Australia.
The following table provides an analysis of the groups sales by geographical market based on the location of the groups customers.
Previously, the information has been provided based upon the location of the Groups assets.
The directors consider that the revised presentation is more appropriate under IAS 14.
Segmental analysis continued 2007 2006 Other Information Americas ROW Total Americas ROW Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Prop.
The corporate finance fees in 2007 related to due diligence work in connection with the ZANTAZ and Meridio acquisitions.
35 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 7.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
of utilisation of tax losses not prev.
Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: 2007 2006 $000 $000 Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit.................................. 62,465 39,085 Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share.................. 201,252 184,409 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options................................................................................................................................... 3,973 2,567 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share................ 205,225 186,976 Earnings per share adjusted is calculated by dividing the net profit adjusted amounts shown on page 23 by the share denominators shown above.
See note 22 for details of the acquisitions.
The group tests annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The group has one reportable business segment and all goodwill is associated with that segment.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU is determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
A discount rate of 10% has been used which is consistent with the rate used for determining the value of purchased intangibles.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on recent history and expectations of future changes in the market.
The group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management and extrapolates cashflows for the coming ten years based on estimated growth rates.
For the purposes of this calculation management have used a profit growth rate of 20% for years 1 to 5 and then 5% thereafter.
Having performed impairment testing, no impairment has been identified, and therefore no impairment loss has been recognised in either year.
37 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 12.
The purchase price allocation for Meridio Holdings Limited is based on preliminary estimates and the detailed work will be completed during 2008 to determine both the final valuation of these intangibles and their estimated useful life.
For the purposes of this annual report a value of $6.5 million has been assumed with an estimated useful life of 3 years.
Autonomy Corporation plc 38 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 13.
The group invested a further $3.2 million during 2007.
The group retained a 10% interest in blinkx Plc which is carried at fair value.
This investment was originally recorded at the initial listing price of 0.45 per share and is valued at the year end based on the market price at 31 December 2007 of 0.28 per share.
Quoted investments are subject to market risk and can increase or decrease in value depending on the share price of the relevant instruments.
This investment has been classified as available for sale under IAS 39, and all changes in fair value have been recognised directly in equity during the period.
No amounts have been removed from equity and recognised in the income statement for the period.
The unquoted investments included above represent investments in privately owned companies.
The fair values of these investments are based on latest financial information available for each entity.
The carrying value is considered in light of the net asset value and other known factors which have an impact on the valuation of the respective entities.
An impairment charge of $1,026,000 2006: $300,000 was incurred during the year.
The Group has credit risk with respect to trade receivables due from its customers.
Autonomy has over 17,000 customers spread across diverse industries and geographical areas and hence the concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the large and broad customer base.
A large proportion of the Groups customer base includes various governments and large blue-chip companies which also limits the exposure to credit risk.
The company has no material risk associated with new customers or resellers who the company has no experience of trading with.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
Interest charged when amounts from customers are past due is not material.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover is purchased.
The group does not have any debtors with renegotiated terms.
Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of $34.3 million 2006: $25.8 million which are past due at the reporting date and not impaired.
$27.8 million 2006: $17.5 million is 0-90 days overdue and $6.5 million 2006: $8.3 million is over 90 days past due.
A large proportion of the over 90 days past due balance relates to balances for which the Group has not yet recognised the revenue and hence no significant exposure is present.
The remaining balance of $76.2 million 2006: $51.5 million is not yet due.
The groups allowance for doubtful debts decreased to $5.5 million 2006: $5.7 million.
The charge for the year was $3.6 million 2006: $6.2 million and the amount utilised during the year was $3.8 million 2006: $6.1 million.
Autonomy Corporation plc 40 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 15.
Other financial assets continued Trade receivables that are past due are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience and any other relevant circumstances.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The closing allowance for doubtful debts covers approximately 100 individual debts and no individual debt accounts for more than 10% of this balance in either year.
b Bank balances and cash Bank balances and cash comprise cash held by the group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
c Credit risk The groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables.
The groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Other than as noted in a above, the group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
These losses expire at various dates from 2014 through 2027.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are immaterial.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
No interest has been charged by suppliers in respect of overdue amounts in either year.
41 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 18.
The loan is denominated in U. S. dollars and carries a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.5%, thus exposing the group to potential cash flow interest rate risk.
The directors estimate the fair value of the loan to be the same as the amounts shown above.
The loan is subject to certain financial and other covenants which have all been met during the year.
The loan is covered by a guarantee from Autonomy Corporation plc but is not secured against any assets of the group.
These amounts are expected to be paid during 2008 and the provision fully utilized in that period.
The onerous lease provision relates to a number of properties within the group and the provision represents managements best estimate of the liability.
Tenants are still being sought on the properties and hence the onerous lease obligations remain.
This is expected to be fully utilized within one to two years.
Share capital continued The company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The movement in issued share capital during 2007 consists solely of the issuance of 21,037,157 shares in relation to financings and acquisitions and 4,192,959 shares in relation to employee stock option exercises.
Acquisition of subsidiaries On 20 July 2007 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of ZANTAZ, Inc. a leader in the archiving, e-Discovery and Proactive Information Risk Management IRM markets, for consideration of $378.0 million.
On 8 November 2007 the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Meridio Holdings Limited, a leading provider of records management software.
These transactions have been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
Managements preliminary allocation has attributed a value of $6.5 million to purchased intangibles comprising software licenses and purchased technology.
During 2008 the formal valuation exercise will be completed and as such the balances remain subject to amendment.
Deferred consideration is contingent upon earnings levels and is estimated based upon managements estimates.
Had the results of ZANTAZ for the period from 1 January 2007 to 20 July 2007 and the results of Meridio for the period from 1 January 2007 to 8 November 2007 been included in the companys results for the year ended 31 December 2007 then group net profit for 2007 would have theoretically been reduced by approximately $20 million.
The foregoing is a theoretical calculation adding ZANTAZ and Meridios historical pre-acquisition results to the companys 2007 results.
The calculation does not give effect to any positive or negative effects on ZANTAZ, Meridio or the company as a result of the acquisition, or any other factors that may have affected those companys results during those periods, and should not be relied upon as indicative of anything other than a pro forma addition of ZANTAZ and Meridios historical results to the companys results, which are not necessarily indicative of future results.
43 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 22.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Standalone impact of ZANTAZ and Meridio acquisitions It is not practicable to determine the effect of the ZANTAZ or Meridio acquisitions for the period from acquisition to the end of the financial year.
The companys core products and those of the acquired entity have been integrated and the operations merged such that it is not practicable to determine the portion of the result that specifically relates to ZANTAZ or Meridio on a stand-alone basis.
Cash flows from acquisitions are presented within investing activities as required under IAS 7 para 39, which states [t]he aggregate cash flows arising from acquisitions and from disposals of subsidiaries or other business units shall be presented separately and classified as investing activities.
Interest receivable and payable are presented within investment income, as opposed to operating cash flows, in accordance with market practice and as required under IAS 7 para 33, which states [i]nterest paid and interest and dividends received may be classified as financing cash flows and investing cash flows respectively, because they are costs of obtaining financial resources or returns on investment.
Post-acquisition restructuring expenses are presented as non-operating activities as required under IAS 1 BC13, which states [i]t would be inappropriate to exclude items clearly related to operations such as inventory write downs and restructuring and relocation expenses because they occur irregularly or infrequently or are unusual in amount.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of seven years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
Autonomy Corporation plc 44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25.
The two plans are the UK Discretionary Option Scheme 1996 the UK Scheme and the 1998 US Share Option Plan the US Plan.
Under the terms of these plans, options are granted with exercise prices not less than the fair market value of the companys shares, become exercisable over vesting periods as established by the Board of Directors generally three to four years, and generally expire seven years from the date of grant.
Vested options are exercisable following termination of employment for periods ranging from zero to 90 days.
The following tables summarize options outstanding as at 31 December 2007.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2007 had a weighted average exercise price of 4.49 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.8 years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Related party transactions Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries which are related parties have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the group and its joint venture associate are disclosed below.
There were no transactions between the group and its associate other than the initial investment in the share capital of the associate.
Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the companys separate financial statements.
a Trading transactions with associate There have been no transactions during 2007 and there are no balances due to or from the associate at 31 December 2007 2006: $nil.
b Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited portion of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 17 and 18.
Financial Instruments a Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 18, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 20 and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 25.
The Group aims to maintain cash balances over $100 million to provide both security to customers making a significant long term investment when they acquire our software and to provide funds for potential acquisitions should the opportunity arise.
b Externally imposed capital requirement The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
c Significant accounting policies Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements.
d Derivative contracts The group does not enter into any financial derivative contracts.
f Financial risk management objectives The group is subject to market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign currency exposures as the operating companies within the group principally generate revenues in the currencies in which they incur the majority of their expenditure.
The group manages credit risk in respect of its trade receivables as set out in note 15.
Liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk are limited as the group has no net debt.
The Board review the respective risks on a quarterly basis to ensure no significant exposures exist.
47 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.
Financial Instruments continued g Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group does not use derivatives to manage the foreign currency risks due to the natural hedging that exists within the Group.
Interest rate risk is not considered significant as the cash balances exceed the bank loan balance.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the Groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk.
h Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise both in terms of transactional risk as well as translational risk.
The group is naturally hedged, as noted above, which addresses the transactional risk.
Translational risk is minimal and is not hedged by the group as the majority of the groups assets and liabilities are denominated in dollars which is also the groups presentational currency.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the functional currency of the entity concerned against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where the Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the functional currency against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
The movements above arise where entities within the group have financial assets or liabilities in currencies other than the respective functional currencies.
There has not been any significant change in the groups sensitivity to foreign currency during the year.
j Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it has a floating interest rate bank loan and receives interest on its cash and cash equivalent balances.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining sufficient cash balances to offset any exposure on the bank loan.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
k Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 0.5% increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
Autonomy Corporation plc 48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.
Financial Instruments continued If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups: profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 would decrease increase by $0.2 million 2006: decrease increase by $0.2 million.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and other equity reserves would be unaffected by the change in either year.
The Groups sensitivity to interest rates has decreased during the current period mainly due to repayments of the bank loan.
l Other price risks The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments.
The shares included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the group with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains.
Equity investments designated as available for sale are held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The Group does not actively trade these investments.
- Equity price sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date.
If equity prices had been 25% higher lower, other equity reserves would increase decrease by $3.9 million 2006: $nil for the Group as a result of the changes in fair value of available-for-sale shares.
The Group had no sensitivity to equity prices during 2006 as the available for sale shares were acquired during 2007 as part of the blinkx demerger.
The Groups investment in blinkx is a strategic long term investment following the demerger and is expected to be held for the foreseeable future.
Due to the early stages of this entity it is likely that there will be volatility in the share price and hence the value of this investment may vary significantly from period to period.
- Credit risk management The Group is principally exposed to credit risk over its trade receivables.
Details regarding the management of this risk are provided in note 15.
The Groups investments in equity are in technology companies where management do not anticipate to receive dividends.
No significant credit risk has been identified in relation to these investments.
The company does not invest its funds in deposits with maturities exceeding one month and therefore there is no significant price risk on cash and cash equivalents.
o Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in note 18 is a description of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
49 Autonomy Corporation plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27.
Financial Instruments continued - Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
The fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Financial assets in this category include the quoted shares held in blinkx Plc.
The fair value of unquoted shares is determined by management by considering the underlying profitability and net assets of those investments.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
Subsidiaries A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is set forth on page 58.
