qxp 19 3 08 23:43 Page 76 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Overview Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 117.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Chief Executives review of the year, the Chief Operating Officers review of the year and the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 12 to 43.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group from the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these financial statements were in issue, but not yet effective: IAS 1 Revised - Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 Revised - Borrowing Costs IAS 27 Revised - Consolidation and Separate Financial Statements IFRS 2 Revised - Share based payments IFRS 3 Revised - Business Combinations IFRS 8 - Operating Segments IFRIC 11 - IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 - Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 - Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14 - The limit on a Defined benefit asset, Minimum funding requirements and their interaction The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to them.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and value added tax.
76 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
