qxp 20 3 08 00:46 Page 117 OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG telephone 01604 752424: email cosec@travisperkins.
Should your query relate to a pensions matter please email pensions@travisperkins.
co. uk or if your query relates to a marketing matter please email marketing@travisperkins.
co. uk REGISTRARS ON-LINE SERVICE By logging onto www.
com, clicking on shareholders at the top of the page and then the link under The Share Portal and following the prompts, shareholders can view and amend various details on their account.
Please note that you will require your unique investor code, which can be found on your share certificate, proxy card or dividend tax voucher.
FINANCIAL DIARY Annual General Meeting 13 May 2008 Payment of final dividend 15 May 2008 Announcement of interim results July 2008 Payment of interim dividend November 2008 Announcement of 2008 annual results March 2009 SHARE DEALING SERVICES Capita Registrars Capita, the Companys Registrar, offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which is available by logging on to www.
com or telephoning 0871 664 0446 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
For the on-line service, Capitas commission rates are 1% of the value of the deal minimum 17.50, maximum 50 and for the telephone service, Capitas commission rates are 1.50% of the value of the deal minimum 22.50, maximum 100.
An additional 2.50 will be levied on all share dealings to cover Capitas compliance and administrative costs.
DIVIDEND RE-INVESTMENT PLAN DRIP This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares in Travis Perkins.
The DRIP is administered by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd CIRGT.
CIRGT will instruct the broker to buy shares on the dividend payment date at the then current market price.
Any cash left over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be carried forward and held without interest, in a Client Money bank account.
The DRIP commission, charged to the shareholder is 1% of the purchase price of the shares, with a minimum charge of 2.50.
This is exclusive of stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5% of the deal value.
Should you wish to apply you should request an application pack by telephoning 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras or, if calling from overseas 44 20 8639 3402: alternatively you can email shares@capitaregistrars.
INTERNET There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information about the Group and its principal brands, products and services at the following addresses: www.
co. uk These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line with the exception of the Wickes site which allows on-line ordering by secure card transaction.
117 OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION 77266 Accounts.
qxp 20 3 08 00:46 Page 118 OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued Some of the sites provide information about branch locations and allow access to prices and the product range available.
Customers are also able to construct their own price quotation that includes any special price arrangements that have been negotiated with the Group.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION Last year the Articles of Association were amended to broaden the powers under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act in relation to the sending or supplying of notices, documents or information by the Company in electronic form including via a website.
A letter was sent out to all shareholders on 17 August 2007 explaining that under the new provisions within the 2006 Act a company is allowed to use its website to publish statutory documents and communications to shareholders, such as the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM.
You can therefore view or download a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM by going to our website at www.
see section called Investor Centre - see also section below called websites.
If you received a hard copy of this report in the post then you will not have consented to this method of publication.
Should you now wish to consent to this method of publication you should contact Capita Registrars, Shareholder Administration Support, Freepost RLYX-GZTUKRRG, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 9ZA.
By reducing the number of communications sent by post it will not only result in cost savings to the Company but also reduce the impact that the unnecessary printing and distribution of reports has on the environment.
Please note that if you consent to website publication, you will continue to be notified each time that the Company places a statutory communication on the website.
This notification will be sent to you by post.
However, you may also choose to receive notifications by e-mail and we would encourage you to do so.
If you wish to receive these notifications via email you should register at: http: www.
com and follow the instructions above under the heading Registrars on-line Service.
Please telephone Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0391 within the UK, calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras 44 20 8639 3367 if calling from outside the UK if you have any queries.
Before consenting to receive documents and communications via the website, shareholders should ensure that they have a computer with internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader facility.
The Adobe Acrobat reader software may be obtained via the website free of charge.
If you elect to receive notifications of the publication of the documents and communications on the website electronically, it will be your responsibility to notify our registrars, Capita, of any subsequent change in your e-mail address or other contact details.
If you are not resident in the United Kingdom, it is your responsibility to ensure that you may validly receive documents and communications electronically either generally or in relation to any particular document or communication without the Company being required to comply with any governmental or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
The Company may deny electronic access to documents and communications relating to certain corporate actions in respect of those shareholders who it believes are resident in jurisdictions where it is advised that to provide such access would or may be a breach of any legal or regulatory requirements.
The Companys obligation to provide shareholder documents to you is satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
The Company is not responsible for any failure in transmission for reasons beyond its control any more than it is for postal failures.
In the event of the Company becoming aware that an electronic communication to you has not been successfully transmitted, a further two attempts will be made.
If the transmission is still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the relevant notification will be posted to your registered address.
Your registration to receive electronic communications and your relevant contact address details will stand until such time as the Company receives alternative instructions from you by e-mail or in writing.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no computer viruses are present in any electronic communication it transmits, but the Company shall not be responsible for any loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any e-mail or attachments sent by the Company or on its behalf.
The Company recommends that shareholders subject all messages to computer virus checking procedures.
Any electronic communication received by or on behalf of the Company, including the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, that is found to contain any computer virus will not be accepted.
The Company reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to revert to sending hard copy documentation by post whenever it considers it necessary or desirable to do so.
118 OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION 77266 Accounts.
qxp 18 3 08 18:35 Page 119 OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued DUPLICATE SHARE REGISTER ACCOUNTS If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our register of members.
If that was not your intention you might consider merging them into one single entry.
Please contact Capita Registrars who will be pleased to carry out your instructions.
WEBSITES We are currently redeveloping our website with the intention of splitting the site into two separate sites, one for the trade side of the business travisperkins.
co. uk and one for the corporate side of the business travisperkinsplc.
No launch date has yet been decided although it is anticipated that it will be in the near future.
OVERSEAS SHAREHOLDERS Our registrar, Capita Registrars, has introduced an International Payment Service that allows you to receive your dividend payments in your local currency, sent directly to your local bank account - potentially saving you time and money.
Further details are available from Shareholder Administration, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: telephone UK: 0871 664 0386 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras or 44 20 8639 3405 from outside the UK or by logging on to www.
