qxp 20 3 08 00:46 Page 114 NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares.
A proxy need not be a member.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be obtained by contacting the Registrars or you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such authority for the Annual General Meeting to be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BQ at 11.45 am on 13 May 2008 and any adjournment s thereof must be returned to Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, by 11.45 am on 11 May 2008.
Alternatively you may submit your proxy form online by accessing the Shareholder portal at www.
com shareholders, logging in and selecting the Proxy Voting link.
If you have not previously registered for electronic communications, you will first be asked to register as a new user, for which you will require your investor code which can be found on the enclosed proxy form, your share certificate and dividend tax voucher family name and post code if resident in the UK.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors and voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In each case the proxy appointments must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the register of members of the Company as at 11.45 a. m. on 11 May 2008 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
The register referred to in note 4 means the issuer register of members and the Operator register of members maintained in accordance with Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
114 NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 77266 Accounts.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice to the date of the meeting and at Northampton Rugby Football Club from 11.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
6.1 Copies of contracts of service of directors and nonexecutive directors letters of appointment with the Company, or with any of its subsidiary companies.
6.2 The register of directors interests kept by the Company 6.3 A copy of article 147 of the Companys existing Articles of Association, which sets out the directors and officers indemnity entitlements.
6.4 A statement giving particulars of directors relevant transactions.
6.5 The proposed new Articles of Association of the Company.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
115 NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
