qxp 20 3 08 00:52 Page 113 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the forty-fourth Annual General Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Tuesday 13 May 2008 at 11.45 a. m. The Resolutions Resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 9 to 11 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007, together with the directors report, and the directors remuneration report and the auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 of 30.4 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 April 2008.
To re-appoint Chris Bunker as a non-executive director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear on page 47.
To re-appoint Geoff Cooper as a director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Geoff Cooper appear on page 46.
To re-appoint Paul Hampden Smith as a director, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Paul Hampden Smith appear on page 46.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 set out on pages 53 to 61 be approved.
That, in substitution for all existing unexercised authorities, the authority conferred on the Directors to allot relevant securities by Article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting and for that period the section 80 amount is 1,233,034.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 8, and in substitution for all existing unexercised authorities, the power conferred on the Directors to allot equity securities wholly for cash on a non-prescriptive basis by Article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 89 amount is 613,348.
That the Articles of Association presented to the meeting, and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification only, be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 12,266,966 representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 3 March 2008 : b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased: d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months from the date of passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board, Andrew Pike Secretary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG 3 March 2008 Registered in England No.
824821 Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be found on page 116.
113 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
