qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 68 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Directors are also required to: Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial Properly select and apply accounting policies: statements in accordance with applicable law and Present information, including accounting policies, in a regulations.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial understandable information: and statements for each financial year.
The Directors are Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable financial statements under International Financial Reporting users to understand the impact of particular Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and transactions, other events and conditions in the entitys have also elected to prepare the Parent Company financial financial position and financial performance.
statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting European Union.
The financial statements are also required records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and International Accounting Standard 1 requires that detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the financial statements present fairly for each financial year preparation of a directors report and directors the Companys financial position, financial performance and remuneration report and enhanced business review that cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. effects of transactions, other events and conditions in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for dissemination of financial statements may differ from the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
68 ST A TEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES
