SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Pensions and other post-employment benefits For defined benefit schemes, operating profit is charged with the cost of providing pension benefits earned by employees in the period.
The expected return on pension scheme assets less the interest on pension scheme liabilities is shown as a finance cost within the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the period from the difference between actual and expected returns on pension scheme assets, experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities and the effects of changes in demographics and financial assumptions are included in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Recoverable pension scheme surpluses and pension scheme deficits and the associated deferred tax balances are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are included in the balance sheet.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Employee share incentive plans The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees long term incentives, executive share options and Save As You Earn, which do not include market related conditions.
These payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant by the use of the Black Scholes option-pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The cost of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Equity instruments and own shares The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the Group and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental issue costs.
Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted from total shareholder equity.
Where such shares vest to employees under the terms of the Groups share options or the Groups share save schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the period end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The Audit Committee has been party to discussions about the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and about their actual application.
The key estimates made by management are detailed below: Goodwill In testing for impairment, the Directors have made certain assumptions concerning the future development of the business that are consistent with its annual budget and three-year plan.
Should these assumptions regarding the growth in profitability be unfounded then it is possible that goodwill included in the balance sheet could be impaired.
The Directors are confident that this is not the case.
Pension liabilities The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that Directors believe are in line with the median except for longevity where the Group is more conservative than average.
If the future return on equities is lower than anticipated, or if the difference between actual inflation and the actual increase in pensionable salaries is greater than that assumed, or if the average life expectancy of pensioners increases, then the pension deficit would be greater than currently stated in the balance sheet.
Property leases The Group is party to a number of leases on properties that are no longer required for trading.
Whilst every effort is made to profitably sub-let these properties, it is not always possible.
Where a lease is onerous to the Group, a provision is established for the difference between amounts contractually payable to the landlord and amounts contractually receivable from the tenant if any for the period up until the point it is judged that the lease will no longer be onerous.
80 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
