Supplementary information Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Electronic communication All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder of change of address, loss of a share certificate or dividend communications including annual reports, interim reports payments should be made to the Companys registrars, and notices of meetings electronically.
Tullow actively supports Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact details Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
are as follows: eTree is an environmental programme designed to promote electronic shareholder communications by rewarding every Computershare Investor Services PLC shareholder who registers for electronic communication P. O Box 82 with a sapling donated to the Woodland Trusts Tree for The Pavilions All campaign.
To register for this service, simply visit Bridgwater Road www.
com tullowoilplc with your shareholder number Bristol and email address to hand.
Once registered, shareholders will BS99 6ZY be emailed when an Annual Report, Interim Report or Notice email: web.
co. uk of Meeting is available for viewing on the Tullow website.
Telephone number UK shareholders: 0870 703 6242 Shareholder security Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited Telephone number Irish shareholders: 01 2163744 financial advice: offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of Telephone number other shareholders: 0044 870 703 6242 free company reports.
More detailed information can be found at www.
uk and in the Shareholder A range of shareholder frequently asked questions and practical Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: help on transferring shares and updating details is available www.
com online in the Shareholder Services section located in the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
com ShareGift Computershare online enquiry service If you have a small number of shares whose value makes it Computershare provides a range of services through Investor uneconomical to sell you may wish to consider donating them Centre free of charge at www.
com investor UK to ShareGift.
Any shares donated to ShareGift will be aggregated This service, accessible from anywhere in the world, enables and sold when possible with the proceeds donated to a wide shareholders to check details of their shareholdings or range of UK charities.
The relevant share transfer form may dividends, download forms to notify changes in personal details, be obtained from Computershare.
Further information about and, access other relevant information.
the scheme is available at www.
Payment of dividends Financial calendar Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into a UK Financial year end 31 December 2007 sterling or Irish euro bank account and have the tax voucher Results announced 12 March 2008 sent directly to their registered address.
You can register your account details in Investor Centre or, alternatively, download Annual General Meeting 14 May 2008 a dividend mandate form or contact Computershare direct.
2007 Final dividend payable 21 May 2008 Overseas shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid 2008 Interim results announced August 2008 in a local currency can use the Global Payments Service that 2008 Interim dividend payable November 2008 Computershare has established in conjunction with Citibank.
Details of the service can be accessed in the Shareholder Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Share dealing service A telephone share dealing service has been established for shareholders with Computershare for the sale and purchase of Tullow Oil shares.
Shareholders who are interested in using this service can obtain further details by calling the appropriate telephone number below: UK shareholders: 0870 703 0084 Irish shareholders: 1890 924 995 Other shareholders : 0044 141 270 3203 Further details of the terms applying to the service can also be obtained from the Shareholder Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
com Kindly note, this service cannot be offered to residents of any territories where such offers are not permitted by local securities regulations or other regulatory requirements.
It is the responsibility of shareholders outside the European Union who wish to use this service to ensure compliance with local law and regulatory requirements.
If you are in any doubt you should consult an appropriate professional advisor.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 117
