Supplementary information Additional shareholder information Share capital available for distribution will be distributed among the holders The Company has an authorised share capital of 1,000,000,000 of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the ordinary shares of ten pence each with an aggregate nominal value shares held by them.
A liquidator may with the sanction of a of 100,000,000.
As at 11 March 2008, the Company has an allotted special resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction and fully paid up share capital of 719,622,473 ordinary shares of required by the Companies Acts, divide among the shareholders ten pence each with an aggregate nominal value of 71,962,247 the whole or any part of the Companys assets.
Alternatively, a including shares owned by the Tullow Oil Employee Trust.
liquidator may, upon the adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, vest the assets in whole or in part in trustees upon The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are as follows: such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary shares is compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by Restrictions on holding securities the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
There are no restrictions under the Companys Memorandum No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available and Articles of Association or under UK law that either restrict for distribution.
Dividends may be paid in any currency and the rights of UK resident shareholders to hold shares or limit the Board may agree with a member to pay that member in the right of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or a different currency calculated on an appropriate basis agreed vote the Companys ordinary shares.
by the member and the Board.
Payment or satisfaction of There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution of the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys specific assets, including paid up shares or debentures of ordinary shares.
Such action must be directed by ordinary resolution of the general meeting which declared the dividend Substantial shareholdings and upon the recommendation of the Directors.
The table at the foot of this page details significant holdings Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show 3% or more in the Companys ordinary share capital that of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands had been disclosed to the Company as at 11 March 2008 in every shareholder who is present in person at a general accordance with the requirements of section 5.1.
2 of the meeting and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
present at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by Control rights under employee share schemes the proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that Under some of these arrangements, employees are not entitled shareholder the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy to exercise directly any voting or other control rights as the is set out in the form of proxy.
A poll may be demanded by any holders of shares.
Under the Companys UK and Irish Share of the following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at least Incentive Plans those rights are exercised by the plan trustees.
five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by For shares held on behalf of participants, they are exercisable proxy at the meeting: c any shareholder or shareholders in accordance with participants instructions.
In the absence present in person or by proxy and representing in the of such instructions, shares cannot be voted under the Irish aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of SIP, whereas under the UK SIP the trustees can exercise their all shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or discretion whether to vote shares.
Under the Irish SIP, voting d any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by instructions must be received at least 3 working days before the proxy and holding shares conferring a right to attend and vote last date on which voting rights are exercisable by shareholders.
at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the In practice, a similar requirement would apply to the UK SIP.
aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
In the case of Voting rights on any unallocated shares held in the UK SIP an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, and on shares held in the Tullow Oil Employee Trust which the Chairman of the meeting is entitled to cast the deciding holds shares to satisfy awards under some of its share schemes vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
where employees have no direct interests in shares until after Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the awards vest are exercisable at the discretion of the relevant Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking trustees.
Those on unallocated shares held in the Irish SIP priority in accordance with English law, the balance of assets are not exercisable.
% of Date of Number issued notication Nature of Shareholder of shares capital of interest rights BlackRock Group 100,302,314 13.94% 29 Nov 2007 Indirect Prudential plc 67,116,866 9.33% 23 Nov 2007 Direct Standard Life Investments 43,024,176 5.98% 5 Dec 2007 See note below IFG International Trust Company Limited 38,960,366 5.41% 14 Nov 2006 Not disclosed Legal & General Group 29,642,611 4.12% 17 Oct 2007 Direct Direct 27,153,697: Indirect 15,870,479.
118 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Material agreements containing change of control provisions The following significant agreements will, in the event of a change of control following a takeover bid, be affected as follows: Description of agreement Parties to agreement Effect of change of control US$1.3 billion senior secured revolving The Company: certain of the Companys If any person, or group of persons acting credit facility agreement.
subsidiaries, ABN AMRO Bank N. V: in concert, gains control of the Company, Bank of Scotland plc: BNP Paribas S. A. : at the discretion of the majority lenders HBOS Treasury Services plc and the as specified in the Agreement all lenders specified in the Agreement.
outstanding amounts under the Agreement and any connected document will become immediately due and payable and full cash cover will be required in respect of all letters of credit issued under the Agreement.
US$550,000,000 multicurrency term loan The Company: certain of the Companys If any person, or group of persons acting bridge facility agreement.
subsidiaries as borrowers and in concert, gains control of the Company, guarantors: Bank of Scotland plc: at the discretion of the majority HBOS Treasury Services plc and the lenders as specified in the Agreement lenders specified in the Agreement.
all outstanding amounts under the Agreement and any connected document will become immediately due and payable.
For the purposes of this provision control has the meaning given to it under section 416 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Powers of Directors Annual General Meeting to allot shares for cash on a non The powers of the Companys Directors are set out in Article 100 pre-emptive basis up to a maximum nominal amount of of the Articles of Association of the Company.
The authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which General Meeting of the Company in 2008 or 29 August 2008. may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by the management of the business of the Company or not.
This shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
It is also limited by the provisions of the Memorandum which have been bought back may be held as treasury and Articles of Association of the Company and any directions shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon given by special resolution of the members of the Company completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of which are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
the Companys issued share capital.
The Company does not currently have shareholder authority to buy back shares.
Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the exercise of power by the Directors: Borrowing powers the directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the holders to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all net of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the external borrowings of the Group outstanding at any time Articles of Association of the Company.
However, the ability of shall not exceed an amount equal to four times the aggregate the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities of the Groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than in the manner prescribed in Article 101 of the Articles of pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted under Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution the Companies Acts which provide that the directors of a of the Companys shareholders.
company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may Appointment and replacement of Directors be contained in a companys articles of association or given by The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies not less than two nor more than fifteen Directors.
Such Directors are not required to hold shares in the Company.
Acts, the Company may also not allot shares for cash The existing Articles of Association require a Director to leave otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot office at the age of 70.
At the forthcoming AGM a resolution is to be put to shareholders to adopt new Articles of Association such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this to reflect, among other things, changes brought in by the requirement is waived by a special resolution of the Companies Act 2006.
One of the additional changes will be shareholders.
The Company received authority at the last the deletion of this requirement.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 119 Supplementary information Additional shareholder information continued Subject to compliance with those limits, appointment and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: the members may by ordinary resolution appoint any person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board: the Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next General Meeting and shall then be eligible for election: each Director shall retire if he has not retired or been removed sooner from office at the third Annual General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected but he may be reappointed by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing: the Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office or may, by ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied with: there are a number of other grounds on which a Directors office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all the other Directors being at least three in number request his resignation, where he suffers mental incapacity, compounds with his creditors, is declared bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
Amendment to Companys articles The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special resolution passed at a General Meeting.
In the event that a proposed amendment would result in a variation of the rights of a particular class of shareholders, a class consent will be required from the holders of that class of shares in accordance with the rules on seeking class consent set out in Article 8 of the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Acts.
There are no other special provisions governing the amendment of the Articles of Association.
120 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
