Accounting policies Year ended 31 December 2007 a General information The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards Tullow Oil Plc is a company incorporated in the United and Interpretations in future periods will have no material Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of impact on the financial statements of the Group except for the registered office is given on page 122.
The nature of the additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into groups operations and its principal activities are set out effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009. in the operations and finance reviews on pages 12 to 43. c Basis of accounting b Adoption of new and revised standards The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual by the European Union and therefore the Group financial reporting periods beginning on or after1 January 2007, and statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial The financial statements have been prepared on the historical Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments that have changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial adopted by the Group are set out below.
instruments and management of capital see note 17.
Four interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting d Basis of consolidation Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the These are: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each Economies: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity Reporting and Impairment.
The adoption of these so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated accounting policies.
subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity In addition, the Group has elected to adopt the following in therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those advance of its effective date: interests at the date of the original business combination see below and the minoritys share of changes in equity since IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 effective for the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity 2009 are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the The revisions made to IAS 23 have had no impact on the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able Groups accounting policies.
The principal change to the to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Standard, which was to eliminate the previously available The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the option to expense costs as incurred, has no impact on these year are included in the Group Income Statement from the financial statements because it has always been the Groups effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of accounting policy to capitalise borrowing costs incurred on disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies the following Standards and Interpretations which have not used into line with those used by the Group.
been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments revised 2008 Business combinations IFRS 3 Business combinations revised 2008 The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the IFRS 8 Operating segments purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised 2008 of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the revised 2008 acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation revised 2008 contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRS 5 non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised Minimum Funding Requirements and their as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of Interaction the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest.
73 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Accounting policies continued d Basis of consolidation continued rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
If, after reassessment, Currency translation adjustments arising on the restatement the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees of opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries, together with identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds differences between the subsidiaries results translated at the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised average rates versus closing rates, are taken directly to immediately in profit or loss.
All resulting exchange differences are classified as equity until disposal of the subsidiary.
On disposal the Joint ventures cumulative amounts of the exchange differences are The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development recognised as income or expense.
and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of these joint ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In addition, exchange ruling at the transaction dates.
Monetary assets and where Tullow acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from ruling at the Balance Sheet date, with a corresponding charge non-operating partners of the joint venture are included in the or credit to the Income Statement.
However, exchange gains Group Balance Sheet.
and losses arising on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither e Non-current assets held for sale planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair foreign currency translation reserve and recognised in profit value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal or loss on disposal of the net investment.
In addition, exchange groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than borrowings which are a hedge against the Groups overseas through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only investments, are dealt with in reserves.
when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
i Exploration, evaluation and production assets Management must be committed to the sale which should be The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within for exploration and appraisal costs.
All licence acquisition, one year from the date of classification.
exploration and evaluation costs are initially capitalised in cost centres by well, field or exploration area, as appropriate.
f Revenue Directly attributable administration costs and interest payable Sales revenue represents the sales value, net of VAT and are capitalised insofar as they relate to specific development overriding royalties, of the Groups share of liftings in the year activities.
Pre-licence costs are expensed in the period in together with tariff income.
Revenue is recognised when goods which they are incurred.
are delivered and title has passed.
These costs are then written off unless commercial reserves Revenues received under take-or-pay sales contracts have been established or the determination process has not in respect of undelivered volumes are accounted for as been completed and there are no indications of impairment.
All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment related to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate production activities are amortised in accordance with the applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated Groups Depletion and Amortisation accounting policy.
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
j Commercial reserves Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas g Over underlift reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of Lifting or offtake arrangements for oil and gas produced in crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, certain of the Groups jointly owned operations are such that geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a each participant may not receive and sell its precise share of specified degree of certainty to be recoverable in future the overall production in each period.
The resulting imbalance years from known reservoirs and which are considered between cumulative entitlement and cumulative production commercially producible.
There should be a 50 per cent less stock is underlift or overlift.
Underlift and overlift are statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable valued at market value and included within debtors and creditors respectively.
Movements during an accounting period reserves will be more than the amount estimated as a proven and probable reserves and a 50 per cent statistical probability are adjusted through Cost of Sales such that Gross Profit is recognised on an entitlements basis.
The Groups share of any that it will be less.
physical stock, warehouse stock and materials are accounted k Depletion and amortisation discovery fields for at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the h Foreign currencies commencement of production on a unit of production basis, The Pound Sterling is the presentation currency of the which is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the Group.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign period plus the production in the period, generally on a fieldoperations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the by-field basis.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange estimated future field development costs.
Changes in the 74 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 estimates of commercial reserves or future field development to pay more, or right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred costs are dealt with prospectively.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there Where there has been a change in economic conditions that will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying indicates a possible impairment in a discovery field, the temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recoverability of the net book value relating to that field is measured on a non-discounted basis.
assessed by comparison with the estimated discounted future cashflows based on managements expectations of future oil Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on and gas prices and future costs.
acquisitions that are categorised as Business Combinations.
Deferred tax is recognised at acquisition as part of the Any impairment identified is charged to the Income Statement assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
as additional depletion and amortisation.
Where conditions Any deferred tax is charged or credited in the income giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect statement as the underlying temporary difference is reversed.
of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the Income Statement, net of any depreciation that would have Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT is treated as an income tax and been charged since the impairment.
deferred PRT is accounted for under the temporary difference method.
Current UK PRT is charged as a tax expense on l Decommissioning chargeable field profits included in the Income Statement Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
the related facilities are installed.
A corresponding amount equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part of the q Pensions cost of the related property, plant and equipment.
The amount Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension recognised is the estimated cost of decommissioning, schemes are charged to operating profit on an accruals basis.
discounted to its net present value, and is reassessed each r Derivative financial instruments year in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its Changes in the estimated timing of decommissioning or exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest decommissioning cost estimates are dealt with prospectively rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
by recording an adjustment to the provision, and a corresponding adjustment to property, plant and equipment.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning The purpose for which a derivative is used is established provision is included as a finance cost.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative m Property, plant and equipment must be highly effective in achieving its objective and Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance Sheet this effectiveness must be documented at inception and at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised throughout the period of the hedge relationship.
Depreciation on property, plant and must be assessed on an ongoing basis and determined to equipment other than exploration and production assets, is have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated periods for which the hedge was designated.
residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified expected useful economic life of between three and five years.
as either fair value hedges, when they hedge the exposure n Finance costs and debt to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, or cashflow hedges, where they hedge exposure to variability construction or production of qualifying assets, which are in cashflows that is either attributable to a particular risk assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get associated with a recognised asset or liability or forecasted ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of transaction.
those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for ready for their intended use or sale.
hedge accounting, any gain or loss from re-measuring the Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term derivative and the hedged item at fair value is recognised of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
immediately in the Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted from the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against debt proceeds on initial recognition of the liability and are the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the amortised and charged to the Income Statement as finance Income Statement.
costs over the term of the debt.
For cashflow hedges, the portion of the gains and losses on o Share issue expenses and share premium account the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective Costs of share issues are written off against the premium hedge is taken to equity and the ineffective portion, as well arising on the issues of share capital.
as any change in time value, is recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains and losses taken to equity are p Taxation subsequently transferred to the Income Statement during Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and the period in which the hedged transaction affects the Income overseas corporation tax, are provided at amounts expected Statement or if the hedge is subsequently deemed to be to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted ineffective.
A similar treatment applies to foreign currency or substantially enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred loans which are hedges of the Groups net investment in the corporation tax is recognised on all temporary differences net assets of a foreign operation.
that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation 75 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Accounting policies continued r Derivative financial instruments continued Gains or losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment either from inception or during the life of the instrument are taken directly to the Income Statement in the period.
s Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups policy on borrowing costs.
t Share based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of that standard, only those awards that were granted after 7 November 2002, and had not vested at 1 January 2005, are included.
All share based awards of the Company are equity settled as defined by IFRS 2.
The fair value of these awards has been determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair value, adjusted by the Groups estimate of the number of awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
The fair values were calculated using a binomial option pricing model with suitable modifications to allow for employee turnover after vesting and early exercise.
Where necessary this model was supplemented with a Monte Carlo model.
The inputs to the models include: the share price at date of grant: exercise price: expected volatility: expected dividends: risk free rate of interest: and patterns of exercise of the plan participants.
u Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Details of the Groups significant accounting judgements and critical accounting estimates are set out in these financial statements and include: Carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation fixed assets note 9 : Carrying value of property, plant and equipment note 10 : Commercial reserves estimates note 10 : Derivative financial instruments note 17 : Decommissioning costs note 20 : and Acquisition of subsidiaries note 26.
76 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
