Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 December 2007 a Basis of accounting f Share issue expenses and share premium account The financial statements have been prepared under the Costs of share issues are written off against the premium historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies arising on the issues of share capital.
Act 1985 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles g Taxation UK GAAP.
The following paragraphs describe the main Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax, is accounting policies under UK GAAP which have been provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates applied consistently.
and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by In accordance with the provisions of Section 230 of the the balance sheet date.
Companies Act, the Profit and Loss Account of the Company h Share-based payments is not presented separately.
In accordance with the exemptions The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 available under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional has not presented a cash flow statement as the cash flow of provisions of that standard, only those awards that were the Company has been included in the Cash Flow Statement granted after 7 November 2002, and had not vested at of Tullow Oil plc Group set out on page 72.
b Investments All share-based awards of the Company are equity settled as Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, defined by FRS 20.
The fair value of these awards has been are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are determined at the date of grant of the award allowing for the indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
effect of any market-based performance conditions.
This fair c Finance costs and debt value, adjusted by the Companys estimate of the number of Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term awards that will eventually vest as a result of non-market of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
conditions, is expensed uniformly over the vesting period.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded The fair values were calculated using a binomial option at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance pricing model with suitable modifications to allow for charges, including premiums payable on settlement or employee turnover after vesting and early exercise.
Where redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an necessary this model was supplemented with a Monte Carlo accrual basis in the profit or loss account using the effective model.
The inputs to the models include: the share price at interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the date of grant: exercise price: expected volatility: expected instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period dividends: risk free rate of interest: and patterns of exercise in which they arise.
d Financial liabilities and equity i Adoption of new and revised standards Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified In the current year, the Company has adopted FRS 29 according to the substance of the contractual arrangements Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007. evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group The impact of adoption of FRS 29 has been to expand the after deducting all of its liabilities.
disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Companys financial instruments and management of e Foreign currencies capital note 5.
Sterling is the reporting currency of the Company.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge or credit to the profit and loss account.
However, exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings, which are a hedge against the Companys overseas investments, are dealt with in reserves.
101 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
