Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Parent Company Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The Directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Group Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Parent Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial Company financial statements are required by law to give statements for each financial year.
The Directors are a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are statements under International Financial Reporting Standards required to: IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared select suitable accounting policies and then apply in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of them consistently: the IAS Regulation.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial and prudent: statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards financial position, financial performance and cashflows.
have been followed, subject to any material departures This requires the faithful representation of the effects of disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, prepare the financial statements on the going concern income and expenses set out in the International Accounting basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and company will continue in business.
In virtually all The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time compliance with all applicable International Financial the financial position of the company and enable them to Reporting Standards.
However, Directors are also required to: ensure that the Parent Company financial statements comply properly select and apply accounting policies: with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence taking present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users integrity of the corporate and financial information included on to understand the impact of particular transactions, other the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom events and conditions on the entitys financial position and governing the preparation and dissemination of financial financial performance.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
68 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
