65 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 As restated 2006 2007 m m Profit for the financial year 114.0 146.4 Currency translation differences on foreign operations: Group 1.0 38.6 Associates and joint ventures 0.1 0.7 Gains on cash flow hedges taken to equity 4.1 Actuarial gain recognised in the pension schemes 34.8 30.1 Deferred tax recognised on the pension surplus 13.7 26.1 9.2 Total recognised income 140.1 137.2 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 134.3 133.2 Minority interests 5.8 4.0 140.1 137.2 Effects of changes in accounting policy Effect of adopting IFRIC 14 refer to accounting policies in Note 2 and Note 25 2.4 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 2.4 Minority interests 2.4 66 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2007 1.
General information United Business Media plc UBM is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is Ludgate House, 245 Blackfriars Road, London SE1 9UY.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 3.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 were authorised for issue on behalf of the Board of Directors and signed on the Boards behalf by David Levin and Nigel Wilson on 29 February 2008.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all amounts are rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2006 has been restated as follows: Following the transfer of certain operations between segments, the segmental results have been restated.
The impact is disclosed in Note 3.
Acquisition accounting adjustments have been finalised in relation to certain acquisitions which were made in 2006.
The comparative information has been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The impact of this restatement is to increase intangible assets, provisions, other payables and deferred tax liabilities by 3.3m, 0.7m, 0.4m and 1.3m respectively with a corresponding reduction to trade and other receivables of 0.2m and goodwill of 0.7m.
Following the adoption of IFRIC 14, a surplus of 3.1m on one of the Groups pensions schemes, which previously had been treated as irrecoverable, has been recognised.
The impact of this restatement is to reduce the retirement benefit obligation by 3.1m with a corresponding increase to shareholders equity.
Changes to composition of Group Following the acquisition of an additional 2% of the voting rights of RISI, Inc. RISI, the Group has consolidated its 52% controlling interest in RISI.
Previously the Group equity accounted its 50% share of the results and net assets of RISI.
RISI continues to be reported in the Corporate operations segment.
The impact of the consolidation of RISI is to increase Corporate operations revenue by 12.3m, operating expenses by 11.1m, minority interest in the income statement by 0.6m, total assets by 8.3m, total liabilities by 8.1m and total equity and reserves by 0.2m.
The Group has made a number of acquisitions in the year as disclosed in Note 30.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted in the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of UBM plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
b Associates The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
These are entities in which the Group has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The financial statements of the associates are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The reporting dates of the associates and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of consistent accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associates.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceed its interest in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Significant accounting policies continued c Joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
The Groups interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
These are entities over which the Group has entered into an agreement with a third party to share control.
The financial statements of the joint ventures are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The reporting dates of the joint ventures and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of consistent accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the joint ventures.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint ventures equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceed its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations, with the exception of IFRIC 14, did not have any effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Some did however give rise to additional disclosures: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14 The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction These interprepatation are yet to be adopted by the European Union, however the Group has early adopted them because they provide guidance on the application of existing standards which have been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement mechanism.
The principal effects of these changes are as follows: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures The Group adopted this standard on 1 January 2007.
This requires the Group to make disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the significance of the Groups financial instruments and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial instruments.
These new disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies As of 1 January 2007, the Group adopted this interpretation which requires the application of IAS 29 in the reporting period in which an entity first identifies the existence of hyperinflation in the economy of its functional currency as if the economy had always been hyperinflationary.
Since the Group does not have operations in any country with hyperinflationary conditions, the change has no impact as at 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2006.
IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives The Group adopted IFRIC Interpretation 9 as of 1 January 2007, which establishes that the existence of an embedded derivative should be determined at the date an entity first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
This change in accounting policy did not have an effect on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment The Group adopted IFRIC Interpretation 10 as of 1 January 2007, which requires that an entity must not reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or financial asset carried at cost.
As the Group had no impairment losses recognised at the interim in either 2007 or 2006, the interpretation had no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The Group adopted IFRIC Interpretation 11 as of 1 January 2007, insofar as it applies to consolidated financial statements.
This interpretation requires arrangements whereby an employee is granted rights to an entitys equity instruments to be accounted for as an equity-settled scheme, even if the entity buys the instruments from another party, or the shareholders provide the equity instruments needed.
68 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements The Group adopted IFRIC Interpretation 12 as of 1 January 2007, which outlines an approach to account for contractual arrangements arising from entities providing public services.
This change in accounting policy did not have an effect on the financial statements of the Group because the Group does not enter into such arrangements.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes The Group early adopted IFRIC Interpretation 13 as of 1 January 2007, which requires that entities which grant loyalty award credits to customers should allocate some of the proceeds of the initial sale as a liability, being its obligation to provide the awards.
The amount allocated to the award credits is measured at fair value, that is, the amount for which the award credits could have been sold separately.
The deferred portion of the proceeds shall be recognised as revenue only when the entity has fulfilled its obligations by supplying the awards.
This change in accounting policy did not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction The Group early adopted IFRIC Interpretation 14 as of 1 January 2007, which sets out when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be regarded as available in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, how a minimum funding requirement might affect the availability of reductions in future contributions and when a minimum funding requirement might give rise to a liability.
This change in accounting policy has led to the Group recognising a surplus of 3.1m on one of its defined benefit pension schemes that had previously been treated as irrecoverable.
This adjustment has been recognised in retained earnings at 1 January 2006.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
Management continually evaluate these estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information and experience.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are described below.
Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use of the cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available, and refers to the amount at which the CGU could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties.
The valuation methods are based on an earnings multiple approach.
The earnings multiple approach uses precedent transaction multiples, obtained from comparable businesses in the media sector.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects managements estimate of return on capital employed required in each CGU which is subject to a value in use calculation.
The Group uses external advisors to calculate the fair value less costs to sell and value in use of its CGU.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2007 was 783.2m 2006: 690.8m which the directors do not consider is impaired.
Further details are given in Note 12.
Intangible assets The Group recognises intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The determination of these fair values is based upon managements judgement and includes assumptions on the timing and amount of future incremental cash flows generated by the assets and the selection of an appropriate cost of capital.
Furthermore, management must estimate the expected useful lives of intangible assets and charge amortisation on these assets accordingly.
The Group uses external advisors to calculate the fair value of intangibles acquired as part of business combinations.
Deferred tax assets Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses that can be recognised.
Management reassesses unrecognised deferred tax assets at each balance sheet date.
Based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies, management has concluded that no deferred tax assets should be recognised at either 31 December 2007 or 31 December 2006.
The amount of unrecognised tax losses at 31 December 2007 was 49.2m 2006: 30.3m.
Management will closely monitor the opportunities for the recoverability of these tax losses and will reassess the need to recognise unrecognised deferred tax assets at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Further details are given in Note 9.
Current tax liabilities The Group has an accrual for tax liabilities which is measured at the directors prudent estimate of corporate tax that may become payable.
These tax provisions are estimates and the actual amounts and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period such determination is made.
Retirement benefit obligations The cost of defined benefit pension plans is determined using actuarial valuations prepared by independent firms of actuaries.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
The assumptions and the resulting estimates are reviewed annually and, when appropriate, changes are made which affect the actuarial valuations and, hence, the amounts of retirement benefit expense recognised in profit and loss and the amounts of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses.
The carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2007 was a surplus of 36.2m 2006: deficit of 3.8m.
Further details are given in Note 25.
Provision for bad and doubtful debts The Group provides services and sells goods to a large number of businesses, mainly on credit terms.
Management knows that certain debts due to us will not be paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates are used in determining the level of debts that management believes will not be collected.
These estimates reflect such factors as the current state of the local economies, particular industry issues and past experience of payment history.
Significant accounting policies continued Provisions The Group recognises provisions for onerous property leases, reorganisation and restructuring costs and other obligations which exist at the balance sheet date and obligations arising from businesses or assets disposed of on or before the balance sheet date.
These provisions are estimates and the actual cost and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Management reassesses the amounts of these provisions at each balance sheet date in order to ensure that they are measured at the current best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Any difference between the amounts previously recognised and the current estimates is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Interest and other income a Interest income Income is recognised as the interest accrues using the effective interest rate method: that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
b Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
c Rental Income Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease terms on ongoing leases.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of trade discounts, VAT, other sales related taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: a Sales of services Revenue is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to stage of completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Publishing: advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the publication.
Revenue from subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Exhibitions: revenue is recognised when the show has been completed.
Deposits received in advance are recorded as deferred income in the balance sheet.
News distribution: revenue is recognised on message delivery.
Directories: advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the directory and copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the directory.
Online: revenue is recognised at the point of delivery or fulfilment for single discrete services and over the life of subscriptions for subscription services.
Data services: revenue from data subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Revenue from data projects for immediate delivery is recognised on delivery of the data.
Revenue from data projects for future delivery is recognised on a percentage completion basis over the life of the project.
b Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less any depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on all items except freehold land.
Depreciation rates are calculated so that assets are written down to residual value in equal annual instalments over their expected useful lives, which are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property Up to 70 years Leasehold improvements Term of lease General plant, machinery and equipment 520 years Computer equipment 35 years Motor vehicles 35 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
70 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill and intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination including directly related professional fees over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit CGU.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount, an impairment is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a CGU and part of the CGU is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposal is included in the net assets attributed to the disposal when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
b Intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets, including internally generated software, are recognised as an expense in the year in which the expenditure is incurred except for website development costs relating to the application and infrastructure development, graphical design and content development stages incurred with third parties which are recognised as assets and measured at cost.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are measured at cost or fair value at the date of acquisition less any amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives as follows: Useful lives Method Brands 10 years Straight line Software 56 years Straight line Customer contracts and relationships 110 years Straight line Subscription lists 25 years Straight line Trademarks 10 years Straight line Databases 210 years Straight line Website development costs 3 years Straight line Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives.
Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For purposes of assessing impairment, assets that do not individually generate cash flows are assessed as part of the cash generating unit to which they belong.
Cash generating units are the lowest levels for which there are cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are valued on the first in first out basis at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises materials and directly attributable production costs.
Significant accounting policies continued Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
The Group does not have any finance leases.
The Group is also not involved in any arrangements which fall within the scope of IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease.
Group as a lessee Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same bases as rental income.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 3090 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, deposits and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts which are shown within borrowings.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, as appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at weighted average exchange rates for the year.
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity, which was set to zero on first time adoption of IFRS.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Share capital Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
B shares 23 The Groups existing B shares of 8 p each are classified as equity.
44 Treasury shares Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
72 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Pension costs The Group sponsors a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
For the defined contribution schemes, the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of employee service rendered during the accounting period is recognised as an expense in that period.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the liability for the benefits earned by employees in return for service rendered in the current and prior periods is determined using the projected unit credit method.
The discount rate used is the current rate of return on an AA corporate bonds of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
Plan assets are measured at their market value at the balance sheet date.
The extent to which the schemes assets exceed the liability is shown as a surplus in the balance sheet only to the extent that a surplus is recoverable by the Group.
The following is charged to operating profit: the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising from employee service in the current period: the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities as a result of benefit improvements over the period during which such improvements vest: and gains and losses arising on settlements curtailments.
A credit in respect of the expected return on the schemes assets and a charge in respect of the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes liabilities because the benefits are one period closer to settlement are shown in the income statement as financing income pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Defined benefit pension surpluses are recognised where scheme rules indicate that such surpluses are available to the Group in the form of either an unconditional right to refund if the scheme were to be wound up or reductions in future contributions.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Share-based payment transactions Employees including directors of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Equity-settled transactions The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to all grants of equity instruments made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value is determined by an external valuer using the Black Scholes or Monte Carlo methods as appropriate.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the periods in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense or increase in equity is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Financial instruments Financial assets in the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss derivative financial liabilities or financial liabilities at amortised cost borrowings and trade and other payables.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, and in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, after taking account of directly attributable transaction costs.
Significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market rates of interest.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or as cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions are recognised directly in equity.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in equity are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Other financial assets The Group classifies its other financial assets as available-for-sale financial assets.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Listed and unlisted investments are stated at fair value, except where there is no market value in an active market and where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, in which case they are measured at cost.
Gains and losses on remeasurement to fair value are included in equity until the investment is disposed of or deemed to be impaired when they are transferred to profit or loss.
Convertible bond The convertible bond is split into two components: a debt component and a component representing the embedded derivatives in the bond.
The debt component represents the Groups liability for future interest coupon payments and the redemption amount.
The embedded derivatives represent the value of the option that bondholders have to convert into ordinary shares of the Company.
As the debt is denominated in US dollars and the ordinary shares are denominated in UK sterling, the embedded derivative is a liability rather than an equity instrument.
The debt component of the convertible bond is measured at amortised cost and therefore increases as the present value of the interest coupon payments and redemption amount increases, with a corresponding charge to finance cost other than interest.
The debt component decreases by the cash interest coupon payments made.
The embedded derivatives are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date, and the change in the fair value is recognised in the income statement.
The remaining convertible bond was either repurchased and cancelled or converted to ordinary shares during 2006.
No convertible bond remains outstanding.
Borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost, and any difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
74 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to pay.
Where continuing involvement takes the form of a written and or purchased option including a cash-settled of similar provision on the transferred asset, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that the Group may repurchase, except that in the case of a written put option including a cash-settled option or similar provision on an asset measured at fair value, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option exercise price.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as derecognition of the original liability and recognition of a new liability, and the difference between the carrying amounts of the original liability and the fair value of the new liability is recognised in the income statement.
Future changes in accounting policies The following IAS and IFRS have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2007: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised which makes a number of changes to the presentation of the primary statements, including the requirement to present a new statement of comprehensive income which may be presented alongside a separate income statement as a separate primary statement or combined with the income statement as a single statement.
The revised standard becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The adoption will necessitate changes to the way in which the Group currently presents its financial statements: IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised which removes the option to expense borrowing costs and requires them to be capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The adoption is not expected to have an impact on the Groups financial statements when implemented: IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment amendment which specifies that only service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
All other features of a sharebased payment, for example market-related vesting conditions, are not vesting conditions and so should be included in the grant date fair value of the sharebased payment.
All cancellations, whether by the Group or by other parties, should result in an acceleration of the vesting period.
The adoption is not expected to have an impact on the Groups financial statements when implemented: IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised which makes a number of significant changes to the treatment of acquisition costs and contingent consideration relating to an acquisition and provides an option the full goodwill method to recognise 100% of the goodwill of an acquired entity not just the acquiring entitys portion of the goodwill, with corresponding increases to goodwill and minority interests.
This revised standard becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and so the Group will apply it prospectively to all business combinations on or after 1 January 2010.
The impact of the revised standard is expected to lead to changes in the Groups accounting treatment of acquisition costs, which are currently included within goodwill, but will need to be expensed.
The standard will also require the Group to estimate contingent consideration at the date of acquisition and include that amount in the cost of acquisition and, hence, effect goodwill.
Any revisions to estimates of contingent consideration are currently reflected with a corresponding entry to goodwill.
However, on adoption of the revised standard, changes resulting from post-acquisition events, such as meeting revenue and earnings targets, will be recorded in the income statement: IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised which no longer restricts the allocation to minority interest of losses incurred by a subsidiary to the amount of the non-controlling equity investment in the subsidiary.
A partial disposal of equity interest in a subsidiary that does not result in a loss of control will be accounted for as an equity transaction and will have no impact on goodwill nor will it give rise to any gain or loss.
Where there is loss of control of a subsidiary, any retained interest will have to be remeasured to fair value, which will impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal.
This revised standard applies retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements when implemented: IFRS 8 Operating Segments which requires segmental disclosures that reflect the segments that management uses internally for evaluating the performance of operating segments and allocating resources to those segments.
This standard was issued in November 2006 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The adoption will result in additional disclosure, but is not expected to impact the segments for which the Group currently presents information.
Segment information Business segments At 31 December 2007, the Group is organised into six main business segments News Distribution, CMP Asia, CMP Information, CMP Technology, CMPMedica and Commonwealth Business Media.
These segments are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
The News Distribution segment operates in the distribution, targeting and evaluation of company information.
The main activities of CMP Asia, CMP Information, CMP Technology, CMPMedica and Commonwealth Business Media are the production and provision of magazines, trade press, directories, business information, events and websites.
During 2006, the Group disposed of a number of its UK classified titles within CMP Information and its US entertainment titles within CMP Technology.
The operating profit attributable to these titles are disclosed as discontinued operations refer to Note 31.
The following tables present the revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information for the Groups business segments for the year ended 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
Year ended 31 December 2007 Segment Revenue Share of result from Revenue results from including JVs external from other Total Segment JVs and and customers segments revenue result associates associates m m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 141.1 141.1 47.5 0.7 48.2 CMP Asia 76.6 1.4 78.0 20.4 0.1 20.5 CMP Information 192.2 192.2 44.5 44.5 CMP Technology 160.5 160.5 14.9 1.2 16.1 CMPMedica 161.8 161.8 3.3 3.3 Commonwealth Business Media 57.1 57.1 3.6 3.6 2 Corporate operations 12.3 12.3 3.1 0.2 2.9 801.6 1.4 803.0 123.9 2.2 126.1 Eliminations 1.4 1.4 801.6 801.6 123.9 2.2 126.1 Continuing operations Finance income cost Interest income 6.7 Interest cost 7.3 Financing cost other than interest 0.5 Financing income pension schemes 4.5 129.5 Taxation 21.5 Discontinued operations see Note 31 Taxation Profit from disposal of discontinued operations see Note 31 6.0 Profit for the year from continuing and discontinued operations 114.0 1 Adjusted Group operating profit represents Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates, and adjusted for operating profit from discontinued operations.
2 Corporate operations comprises net central operating costs, together with RISI Inc and those equity accounted investments which do not form part of one of the Groups operating divisions.
76 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2007 Share of Segment tax on result Adjusted profit from Amortisation including operating JVs and Exceptional of JVs and 1 profit associates items intangibles associates m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 49.1 0.9 48.2 CMP Asia 21.0 0.5 20.5 CMP Information 47.6 3.1 44.5 CMP Technology 25.2 6.2 2.9 16.1 CMPMedica 18.5 5.7 9.5 3.3 Commonwealth Business Media 7.2 7.7 3.1 3.6 2 Corporate operations 2.5 0.4 2.9 166.1 0.4 19.6 20.0 126.1 Share of results from JVs and Share of associates Interest from Tax from JVs results from pre interest JVs and and JVs and and tax associates associates associates m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 0.7 0.7 CMP Asia 0.1 0.1 CMP Information CMP Technology 1.1 0.1 1.2 CMPMedica Commonwealth Business Media 2 Corporate operations 0.6 0.4 0.2 2.5 0.1 0.4 2.2 1 Adjusted Group operating profit represents Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates, and adjusted for operating profit from discontinued operations.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2007 Adjusted Group Share of operating results from 1 profit JVs and Adjusted before associates Group equity before tax operating 1 accounted and profit investments amortisation as reported m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 48.4 0.7 49.1 CMP Asia 20.9 0.1 21.0 CMP Information 47.6 47.6 CMP Technology 24.0 1.2 25.2 CMPMedica 18.5 18.5 Commonwealth Business Media 7.2 7.2 2 Corporate operations 3.1 0.6 2.5 163.5 2.6 166.1 Investments Segment in JVs and Segment Total net assets associates Total liabilities assets m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 77.9 2.0 79.9 41.2 38.7 CMP Asia 52.5 1.7 54.2 37.6 16.6 CMP Information 268.7 268.7 76.7 192.0 CMP Technology 251.8 9.6 261.4 86.7 174.7 CMPMedica 353.9 1.4 355.3 112.4 242.9 Commonwealth Business Media 123.0 123.0 26.7 96.3 2 Corporate operations 130.1 9.9 140.0 262.6 122.6 1,257.9 24.6 1,282.5 643.9 638.6 Unallocated liabilities 272.1 272.1 1,257.9 24.6 1,282.5 916.0 366.5 Unallocated liabilities comprise the current tax liability of 227.6m and deferred tax liabilities of 44.5m.
1 Adjusted Group operating profit represents Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates, and adjusted for operating profit from discontinued operations.
78 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2007 Depreciation Capital Capital Capital including expenditure expenditure expenditure amortisation acquisition property, website of website Other of plant and development development non-cash businesses equipment costs costs expenses m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 34.3 3.4 2.6 1.0 CMP Asia 1.8 0.2 0.3 0.4 CMP Information 27.1 0.6 2.0 1.7 0.9 CMP Technology 24.1 1.2 2.2 0.9 CMPMedica 9.6 0.8 1.2 0.6 Commonwealth Business Media 1.3 3.6 1.6 0.2 2 Corporate operations 0.8 0.8 0.6 3.5 99.0 10.6 2.0 10.2 7.5 Capital expenditure relating to the acquisition of businesses of 99.0m represents gross cash paid of 80.7m, plus accrued expected future deferred consideration payments.
The cash outflow on acquisitions of businesses during the year comprises cash paid net of cash acquired of 76.9m plus 8.2m of deferred consideration payments on prior year acquisitions.
Geographical segments Year ended 31 December 2007 Capital Capital Capital expenditure expenditure expenditure acquisition property, website Segment Segment of plant and development revenue assets businesses equipment costs m m m m m Continuing operations Segments United Kingdom 187.4 403.1 24.5 3.7 2.0 North America 365.5 485.2 71.9 5.8 Europe and Middle East 128.6 316.4 0.3 0.3 Pacific 120.1 53.2 2.3 0.8 801.6 1,257.9 99.0 10.6 2.0 1 Adjusted Group operating profit represents Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates, and adjusted for operating profit from discontinued operations.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2006 As restated As restated As restated As restated As restated As restated Share of Segment Revenue Revenue results from result from external from other Total Segment JVs and including JVs customers segments revenue result associates and associates m m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 129.9 129.9 41.2 0.6 41.8 CMP Asia 73.8 73.8 19.2 19.2 CMP Information 169.8 169.8 38.3 38.3 CMP Technology 179.2 179.2 2.7 1.6 4.3 CMPMedica 169.5 169.5 14.1 14.1 Commonwealth Business Media 16.9 16.9 2.2 2.2 2 Corporate operations 3.0 1.5 1.5 739.1 739.1 114.7 3.7 118.4 3 Exceptional items corporate operations 4.3 EBIT 122.7 Discontinued operations see Note 31 CMP Technology 14.7 14.7 CMP Information 5.1 5.1 0.7 0.7 19.8 19.8 0.7 0.7 Eliminations 758.9 758.9 115.4 3.7 123.4 Continuing operations Finance income cost Interest income 14.9 Interest cost 6.6 Financing income other than interest 1.4 Financing cost other than interest 21.4 Financing cost pension schemes 2.5 114.2 Taxation 11.9 Discontinued operations see Note 31 Taxation 0.2 Profit from disposal of discontinued operations see Note 31 20.5 Profit for the year from continuing and discontinued operations 146.4 1 Adjusted Group operating profit represents Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates, and adjusted for operating profit from discontinued operations.
2 Corporate operations comprises net central operating costs, together with those operations and equity accounted investments which do not form part of one of the Groups operating divisions.
3 Exceptional items include the profit on sale of property.
80 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2006 As restated As restated As restated As restated As restated Share of tax on profit Segment Adjusted from equity result operating accounted Exceptional Amortisation including JVs 1 profit investments items of intangibles and associates m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 41.9 0.1 41.8 CMP Asia 19.7 0.5 19.2 CMP Information 40.8 2.5 38.3 CMP Technology 21.2 14.9 2.0 4.3 CMPMedica 22.8 8.7 14.1 Commonwealth Business Media 3.4 1.2 2.2 2 Corporate operations 0.8 0.7 1.5 149.0 0.7 14.9 15.0 118.4 3 Exceptional items corporate operations 4.3 4.3 EBIT 149.0 0.7 10.6 15.0 122.7 Discontinued operations see Note 31 CMP Technology CMP Information 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 149.7 0.7 10.6 15.0 123.4 Share of results from JVs and Share of associates Interest from Tax from results from pre interest JVs and JVs and JVs and and tax associates associates associates m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 0.6 0.6 CMP Asia CMP Information CMP Technology 1.6 1.6 CMPMedica Commonwealth Business Media 2 Corporate operations 2.2 0.7 1.5 4.4 0.7 3.7 Discontinued operations see Note 31 CMP Technology CMP Information 4.4 0.7 3.7 1 Adjusted Group operating profit represents Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates, and adjusted for operating profit from discontinued operations.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2006 As restated As restated As restated Adjusted Share of Group results from operating equity Adjusted 1 profit investments Group before equity before tax operating 1 accounted and profit investments amortisation as reported m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 41.3 0.6 41.9 CMP Asia 19.7 19.7 CMP Information 40.8 40.8 CMP Technology 19.6 1.6 21.2 CMPMedica 22.8 22.8 Commonwealth Business Media 3.4 3.4 2 Corporate operations 3.0 2.2 0.8 144.6 4.4 149.0 Discontinued operations see Note 31 CMP Technology CMP Information 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 145.3 4.4 149.7 As restated As restated As restated As restated As restated Investments in Segment JVs and Segment Total net assets associates Total liabilities assets m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 45.7 1.8 47.5 44.9 2.6 CMP Asia 46.8 46.8 29.7 17.1 CMP Information 242.6 242.6 71.4 171.2 CMP Technology 236.1 7.6 243.7 76.9 166.8 CMPMedica 332.3 1.2 333.5 94.4 239.1 Commonwealth Business Media 139.7 139.7 28.8 110.9 2 Corporate operations 293.6 13.3 306.9 237.9 69.0 1,336.8 23.9 1,360.7 584.0 776.7 Discontinued operations see Note 31 CMP Technology CMP Information Unallocated liabilities 235.9 235.9 1,336.8 23.9 1,360.7 819.9 540.8 Unallocated liabilities comprise the current tax liability of 205.7m and deferred tax liabilities of 30.2m.
82 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2006 As restated As restated As restated As restated As restated Depreciation Capital Capital including Capital expenditure expenditure amortisation expenditure property, website of website Other acquisition of plant and development development non-cash businesses equipment costs costs expenses m m m m m Continuing operations Segments News distribution 12.4 3.5 2.6 0.5 CMP Asia 5.6 0.5 0.2 0.4 CMP Information 4.8 3.1 0.7 1.5 0.8 CMP Technology 44.8 2.9 2.2 0.7 CMPMedica 4.1 1.4 1.1 0.4 Commonwealth Business Media 91.3 0.2 0.6 2 Corporate operations 0.8 0.4 2.9 163.0 12.4 0.7 8.6 5.7 Discontinued operations see Note 31 CMP Technology CMP Information 163.0 12.4 0.7 8.6 5.7 Capital expenditure relating to the acquisition of businesses of 163.0m represents gross cash paid of 158.2m, plus accrued expected future deferred consideration payments.
The cash outflow on acquisitions of businesses during the year comprises cash paid net of cash acquired of 152.9m plus 2.9m of deferred consideration payments on prior year acquisitions.
Geographical segments Year ended 31 December 2006 As restated As restated As restated As restated As restated Capital Capital Capital expenditure expenditure expenditure property, website Segment Segment acquisition of plant and development revenue assets businesses equipment costs m m m m m Continuing operations Segments United Kingdom 158.9 554.7 14.2 3.7 0.7 North America 348.3 431.3 134.1 6.6 Europe and Middle East 124.7 300.6 2.0 1.6 Pacific 107.2 50.2 12.7 0.5 739.1 1,336.8 163.0 12.4 0.7 Discontinued operations see Note 31 United Kingdom 5.1 North America 14.7 19.8 758.9 1,336.8 163.0 12.4 0.7 1 Adjusted Group operating profit represents Group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates, and adjusted for operating profit from discontinued operations.
Segment information continued The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2006 have been restated to reflect the intragroup transfer of MediaLive Japan from CMP Technology to CMP Asia.
As a result, for the year ended 31 December 2006, 7.0m of revenue, 1.2m of operating profit, 0.2m of amortisation of acquired intangibles, 5.6m of capital expenditure on acquisition of subsidiaries and 1.4m of assets have been transferred from CMP Technology to CMP Asia.
As stated in Note 1, the Group has consolidated its 52% controlling interest in RISI Inc RISI from 1 January 2007 following the acquisition of an additional 2% of the voting rights.
Previously the Group equity accounted its 50% share in the results and net assets of RISI.
Operating expenses 2007 2006 m m Amortisation of website development costs see Note 13 0.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment see Note 14 9.8 8.6 Employee costs see Note 6 280.2 256.0 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 12.7 15.1 Operating lease rentals 17.3 16.9 Auditors remuneration 1.8 2.0 Other cost of sales and administration costs 327.3 308.4 649.5 607.0 Included within continuing other cost of sales and administration costs is a charge of 2.0m 2006: 2.8m in relation to the provisions for irrecoverability of trade receivables.
Auditors remuneration 2007 2006 m m Continuing operations Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.4 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.0 1.0 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.2 Tax services 0.3 0.4 Fees in respect of pension schemes: Audit Other services pursuant to legislation 1.8 2.0 Discontinued operations Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 The Audit Committee has established policy guidelines on the nature of non-audit work which may be undertaken by the auditors.
These guidelines identify a number of categories of work where the auditors will not normally be employed, including financial due diligence assignments on potential acquisitions and financial systems consultancy.
The Audit Committee has also put in place procedures for the pre-approval of any fees payable to the auditors for those nonaudit services which fall within the policy guidelines.
Professional firms are selected to provide advisory services on the basis of their relevant experience and expertise.
For major projects, it is the Groups policy to undertake a competitive tendering process.
In certain circumstances, for example reasons of confidentiality or knowledge of the Groups businesses and structures, it is appropriate to employ the Groups auditors to provide such services without a competitive tender being undertaken.
84 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 6.
Employee costs 2007 2006 m m Wages and salaries 226.6 208.3 Social security costs 38.5 35.4 Share options granted to directors and employees 7.5 7.5 Pension costs defined contribution plans 4.6 4.3 Pension costs defined benefit plans see Note 25 3.0 0.5 280.2 256.0 Employee numbers The average number of persons employed in the Group, including directors, during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 Number Number Location United Kingdom 1,544 1,513 North America 2,979 2,591 Europe and Middle East 735 819 Pacific 1,218 1,030 6,476 5,953 Business segment Continuing operations News distribution 1,228 995 CMP Asia 529 463 CMP Information 1,158 1,333 CMP Technology 1,099 1,187 CMPMedica 1,473 1,454 Commonwealth Business Media 693 273 Corporate operations 296 115 Discontinued operations CMP Information 12 CMP Technology 121 6,476 5,953 Directors emoluments 2007 2006 m m Fees 0.6 0.5 Remuneration and benefits in kind 1.2 1.2 Bonuses including MTIP 1.3 1.2 Contributions to pension schemes 0.2 0.2 3.3 3.1 Details of executive and non-executive directors emoluments and their interest in shares and options of the Company are shown within the directors remuneration report in the sections Directors pension provision, Directors remuneration, Directors interests in shares and Directors interests in share options.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are presented separately as, due to their nature and for the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, this allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
2007 2006 m m Charged to operating profit Vacant property costs 3.9 13.7 Redundancy 12.1 1.2 Restructuring and business reorganisation costs 3.6 Total charged to operating profit 19.6 14.9 Credited to EBIT Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4.3 Total charged credited to EBIT 19.6 10.6 Charged to profit before tax Net finance costs bond buybacks see Note 8 20.3 Total charged credited to profit before tax 19.6 30.9 Credited to profit after tax Taxation relating to exceptional items 1.8 Exceptional taxation credit 35.9 Total charged credited to profit after tax 17.8 5.0 Credited to discontinued operations Profit on disposal of discontinued operations see Note 31 20.5 Additional profit on prior years disposal see Note 31 6.0 Profit from discontinued operations see Note 31 0.5 Loss profit for the year after discontinued operations 11.8 26.0 Charged to operating profit During the year, CMP Technology announced a restructuring to align its product portfolio and organisational structure to the changing needs of its customers, and to better position the business to take advantage of growth opportunities in events, online and data.
This involved the closure and merging of some print titles and a headcount reduction of over 200 people.
The exceptional charge of 6.2m includes 3.3m relating to redundancy, 2.2m relating to vacant property and 0.7m to restructuring and business reorganisation costs.
The redundancy and restructuring and business reorganisation costs have been substantially incurred at the year end and the amount relating to vacant property will be incurred over the remainder of the lease term.
In 2006, CMP Technology downsized its existing operations based in Long Island, New York, together with the offshoring of certain functions.
The costs of 14.9m represent the expected vacant property costs arising, together with certain related redundancies already incurred.
Following the acquisition of the Official Airlines Guide OAG in December 2006, the Group announced a restructuring plan to integrate OAG into the Commonwealth business and to enable it to serve its global customers more effectively.
The exceptional charge of 7.7m includes 6.0m relating to the redundancy of 120 people, 0.5m relating to vacant property and 1.2m of restructuring costs.
The redundancy and restructuring costs have been substantially incurred at the year end and the amount relating to vacant property will be incurred over the remainder of the lease term.
During the year, CMPMedica commenced a restructuring programme to rebalance the business to enable them to better meet the changing customer requirements, to position them in growth markets and to improve profitability.
The exceptional charge of 5.7m includes 2.8m relating to the redundancy of 60 people, 1.2m of vacant property costs and 1.7m of other reorganisation costs.
Of the amount charged, 1.3m has been spent in 2007 and the balance is expected to be incurred in 2008.
Credited to EBIT During 2006, the Group also sold its freehold interest in a property which was no longer in use within the business giving rise to an exceptional profit on disposal of 4.3m.
Credited to profit after tax There is a 1.8m tax credit in relation to the 6.0m redundancy provision associated with the restructuring of OAG.
In 2006, the Group resolved a number of outstanding items as a consequence of which there was a net exceptional tax credit of 35.9m.
86 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 7.
Exceptional items continued Credited to discontinued operations The additional profit on prior years disposal represents additional consideration receivable from GfK following the settlement of certain outstanding items relating to the sale of NOP World in 2005, together with a release of amounts held for certain potential warranty and other claims which are now no longer required.
During 2006, the Group disposed of a number of titles, including the majority of its remaining UK classified titles, together with the US based Music and Entertainment portfolio.
The aggregate profits on disposal, which have been shown as an exceptional item in the Groups profit and loss account, amount to 20.5m.
The operating results for these disposed businesses have been included within discontinued activities.
Finance income cost Recurring Exceptional Total Recurring Exceptional Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Interest income Cash and cash equivalents 6.7 6.7 14.9 14.9 Interest cost Borrowings and loans 5.6 5.6 5.1 5.1 Other 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.5 7.3 7.3 6.6 6.6 Financing income other than interest Buyback of bonds c 0.4 0.4 Net foreign exchange gain a 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.4 1.4 Financing cost other than interest Fair value loss on embedded derivative b 20.7 20.7 Net foreign exchange loss 0.2 0.2 Other fair value adjustments 0.3 0.3 Convertible bond d 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.7 20.7 21.4 Financing income pension schemes see Note 25 4.5 4.5 2.5 2.5 Net finance income cost 3.4 3.4 11.1 20.3 9.2 a Foreign exchange gain in 2006 related to US dollar denominated balances held in UK accounts.
b Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, UBMs US Dollar convertible bond contains an embedded derivative the option to convert USD denominated debt into GBP equity, which is measured at fair value with changes in fair value included in the income statement until conversion or repurchase.
The fair value loss in 2006 of 20.7m reported as exceptional relates to the portion of the bond that was repurchased converted during the year.
c In 2006, UBM repurchased the majority of its US Dollar convertible bond.
This credit reflects the debt settlement gain.
d The convertible bond is separated into fixed rate debt and an equity derivative.
This charge reflects the accretion of the debt to the value at maturity.
Taxation Major components of income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 are: 2007 2006 m m Consolidated income statement Current tax: Current tax charge 27.2 27.9 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.7 3.7 Income tax expense in the consolidated income statement 21.5 24.2 Less: income tax expense for discontinued operations 0.2 Income tax expense for continuing operations 21.5 24.0 Factors affecting tax charge for the year A reconciliation of income tax expense before exceptional tax credit applicable to accounting profit before tax at the statutory tax rate to tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2007 is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 129.5 113.5 Profit before tax attributable to discontinued operations see Note 31 6.0 21.2 Profit before tax 135.5 134.7 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in UK of 30% 2006: 30% 40.7 40.4 Effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7.7 1.4 Tax effect of items not recognised in consolidated financial statements 11.7 3.6 Origination and reversal of temporary differences not recognised 7.8 8.5 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange gains 0.3 Share of results from associates and joint ventures after tax 0.7 1.2 Profit on sale of discontinued operations and equity accounted investments 1.8 6.8 Non-taxable income 4.5 4.0 21.5 24.2 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement 21.5 24.0 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations see Note 31 0.2 21.5 24.2 In 2006, the Group resolved a number of outstanding items as a consequence of which there was a net exceptional tax credit of 35.9m.
88 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 9.
Taxation continued Deferred income tax Deferred income tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Consolidated balance income sheet statement As restated 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m Deferred tax Fair value adjustments on acquisitions 29.6 28.5 5.2 4.0 Defined benefit pension surplus 13.7 Other temporary differences 1.2 1.7 0.5 0.3 44.5 30.2 5.7 3.7 At 31 December 2007, there was no recognised deferred tax liability for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries as the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised amount in aggregate to 3.1bn 2006: 1.7bn.
There are no income tax consequences to the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
As restated 2007 2006 m m The movement in the net deferred tax liability was as follows: Net liability at 1 January 30.2 24.0 Transfers see Note 13 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries see Note 30 5.4 11.1 Amounts credited to net profit 5.7 3.7 Amounts charged to consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 13.7 Currency translation 0.9 1.1 Net liability at 31 December 44.5 30.2 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 63.4m relating to deductible temporary differences and 49.2m of which 35.2m will expire between 2018 and 2027 relating to unused tax losses 2006: 65.6m and 30.3m of which 25.9m will expire within 2020 and 2027 respectively.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these amounts due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2006 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2006 see Note 1.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year reflecting the movements set out in Note 26.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders after deducting adding interest and the other income expenses relating to the convertible bond by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options and dilutive convertible bond.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders, less amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing cost other than interest, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Certain exceptional items, net financing costs other than interest, taxation related to exceptional items and deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets are excluded from this calculation, as due to their nature and the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, separate presentation allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the total operations basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Weighted Weighted average no.
Earnings Earnings of shares per share Earnings of shares per share 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m million p m million p From continuing and discontinued operations Adjusted Group operating profit 166.1 149.7 Net interest expense income 0.6 8.3 Financing income pension schemes 4.5 2.5 Adjusted profit before tax 170.0 160.5 Taxation 28.9 28.9 Minority interests 5.2 4.5 B share dividend 0.3 0.4 Adjusted earnings per share 135.6 254.0 53.4 126.7 278.7 45.5 Adjustments Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 20.0 7.9 15.0 5.4 Deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets 5.2 2.0 4.0 1.4 Adjustments in respect of exceptional items 13.6 5.3 45.8 16.4 Taxation relating to exceptional items 1.8 0.7 Net financing cost other than interest 0.5 0.2 20.0 7.2 Basic earnings per share 108.5 254.0 42.7 141.5 278.7 50.7 Dilution Options 5.5 0.9 5.2 0.9 Convertible bond Diluted earnings per share 108.5 259.5 41.8 141.5 283.9 49.8 Adjusted earnings per share as above 135.6 254.0 53.4 126.7 278.7 45.5 Options 5.5 1.1 5.2 0.8 Convertible bond 0.2 6.0 0.9 Diluted adjusted earnings per share 135.6 259.5 52.3 126.9 289.9 43.8 The convertible bond is earnings enhancing in 2006 and therefore its impact has been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
90 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 10.
Earnings per share continued Weighted Weighted average no.
Earnings Earnings of shares per share Earnings of shares per share 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m million p m million p From continuing operations Adjusted Group operating profit 166.1 149.7 Operating profit from discontinued operations 0.7 Net interest expense income 0.6 8.3 Financing income pension schemes 4.5 2.5 Adjusted profit before tax 170.0 159.8 Taxation 28.9 28.7 Minority interests 5.2 4.5 B share dividend 0.3 0.4 Adjusted earnings per share 135.6 254.0 53.4 126.2 278.7 45.3 Adjustments Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 20.0 7.9 15.0 5.4 Deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets 5.2 2.0 4.0 1.4 Adjustments in respect of exceptional items 19.6 7.7 25.3 9.1 Taxation relating to exceptional items 1.8 0.7 Net financing cost other than interest 0.5 0.2 20.0 7.2 Basic earnings per share 102.5 254.0 40.3 120.5 278.7 43.2 Dilution Options 5.5 0.8 5.2 0.8 Convertible bond Diluted earnings per share 102.5 259.5 39.5 120.5 283.9 42.4 Adjusted earnings per share as above 135.6 254.0 53.4 126.2 278.7 45.3 Options 5.5 1.1 5.2 0.8 Convertible bond 0.2 6.0 0.9 Diluted adjusted earnings per share 135.6 259.5 52.3 126.4 289.9 43.6 The convertible bond is earnings enhancing in 2006 and therefore its impact has been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
The Group has two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year, and shares attributable to convertible debt.
The impact of dilutive securities in 2007 would be to increase the profit by nil 2006: 21.2m for convertible debt and to increase weighted average shares by 5.5 million shares 2006: 5.2 million shares for employee share options and nil million shares 2006: 6.0 million shares for convertible debt.
The weighted average number of shares excludes ordinary shares held by the ESOP and the QUEST.
The weighted average number of shares was affected by the share consolidation which accompanied the special dividend paid on 27 March 2007, where 49 existing ordinary shares were converted to 44 new ordinary shares refer to Note 26.
Dividends 2007 2006 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2006 of 13.60p 2005: 11.00p 34.1 31.9 Special dividend of 72.00p 2006: nil 200.3 Interim dividend for 2007 of 4.84p 2006: 4.40p 12.0 12.3 Equity dividends B shares 0.3 0.4 246.7 44.6 Proposed not recognised as a liability at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Special dividend for 2007 of nil 2006: 72.00p 200.3 Final dividend for 2007 of 16.76p 2006: 13.60p 40.4 34.1 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval and has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
The B shares have a fixed coupon, and the dividends of 0.3m owing as at 31 December 2007 have been accrued for accordingly.
Goodwill As restated 2007 2006 m m Cost At 1 January 690.8 590.6 Acquisitions see Note 30 76.0 142.5 Disposals see Note 31 6.6 Transfers see Note 13 0.7 Other reclassifications 4.3 4.6 Currency translation 12.1 41.0 At 31 December 783.2 690.8 Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to business segment.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
A segment-level summary of the goodwill allocation is shown as follows: As restated 2007 2006 m m News distribution 51.4 23.5 CMP Asia 14.8 15.1 CMP Information 199.9 177.8 CMP Technology 188.2 173.7 CMPMedica 243.9 220.8 Commonwealth Business Media 80.0 79.9 Corporate operations 5.0 783.2 690.8 The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2006 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2006 see Note 1.
Management tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill might be impaired.
The Group generally uses fair value less costs to sell as the basis of its annual impairment review, with additional consideration being given to the value in use of each CGU.
92 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 12.
Goodwill continued The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of a CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The estimate of fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available, and refers to the amount at which the CGU could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties.
The Group uses external advisors to calculate the fair value less costs to sell and value in use of its CGUs.
In determination of fair value less costs to sell, the calculation of fair value is most sensitive to the precedent transaction multiples used.
Where value in use is considered as a part of the annual impairment review, the key assumptions which are considered to be most sensitive are the forecast cash flows generated from the CGU into perpetuity and the pre-tax discount rate derived from the Groups post-tax cost of capital of 8%.
Management does not re-compute the fair value of each CGU annually if all of the following criteria are met: The component assets and liabilities of the CGU have not changed since the last fair value calculation: The previous fair value amount exceeded the carrying amount of the CGU by a substantial margin: No evidence exists to indicate that the current fair value of the CGU would be less than its current carrying amount.
All other intangible asset captions are intangible assets arising on acquisitions and the associated amortisation charge is included in a separate line item in the income statement since these charges do not form part of adjusted Group operating profit.
The average remaining useful lives for the brands and customer contracts and relationships intangible assets is nine years and four years respectively.
The average remaining useful lives for the other classes of intangible assets is four years.
Property, plant and equipment 31 December 2007 Plant, Land and machinery buildings and vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 46.3 82.5 128.8 Additions 1.2 9.4 10.6 Acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and businesses see Note 30 0.4 1.6 2.0 Consolidation of entity previously equity accounted 0.3 0.3 Disposals 10.9 12.1 23.0 Currency translation 0.1 0.7 0.6 At 31 December 2007 36.9 82.4 119.3 Depreciation At 1 January 2007 28.0 70.6 98.6 Charge for the year 1.6 8.2 9.8 Disposals 6.6 12.1 18.7 Currency translation 0.1 0.6 0.5 At 31 December 2007 22.9 67.3 90.2 Carrying value At 1 January 2007 18.3 11.9 30.2 At 31 December 2007 14.0 15.1 29.1 94 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 14.
Property, plant and equipment continued 31 December 2006 Plant, Land and machinery buildings and vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2006 61.5 76.2 137.7 Additions 2.5 9.9 12.4 Acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and businesses see Note 30 0.3 4.1 4.4 Consolidation of entity previously equity accounted 0.6 1.4 2.0 Disposals 12.3 3.4 15.7 Transfer of assets classified as held for sale 3.9 3.9 Currency translation 2.4 5.7 8.1 At 31 December 2006 46.3 82.5 128.8 Depreciation At 1 January 2006 30.3 70.7 101.0 Charge for the year 1.8 6.8 8.6 Disposals 2.0 3.0 5.0 Transfer of assets classified as held for sale 0.5 0.5 Currency translation 1.6 3.9 5.5 At 31 December 2006 28.0 70.6 98.6 Carrying value At 1 January 2006 31.2 5.5 36.7 At 31 December 2006 18.3 11.9 30.2 2007 2006 m m Land and buildings at net book amount comprise: Freehold 0.7 1.6 Long leasehold 1.1 1.3 Leasehold improvements 12.2 15.4 Carrying value 14.0 18.3 15.
Assets classified as held for sale As at 31 December 2007, there were no non-current assets classified as held for sale.
As at 31 December 2006, freehold property with a carrying amount of 3.4m was classified as held for sale.
The property was being actively marketed before 31 December 2006 and a sale was completed during 2007.
Investments in joint ventures and associates Joint Joint ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 a Carrying amount m m m m m m At 1 January 9.3 14.6 23.9 10.7 11.5 22.2 Share of profit after tax 2.1 0.1 2.2 2.4 1.3 3.7 Additions 1.6 1.1 2.7 4.1 4.1 Currency translation 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.7 Dividends received 0.6 0.2 0.8 4.2 0.9 5.1 Investment previously treated as fixed asset investment 2.9 2.9 Entity now consolidated as a subsidiary 3.3 3.3 3.2 3.2 At 31 December 12.2 12.4 24.6 9.3 14.6 23.9 Investments in joint ventures and associates at 31 December 2007 include goodwill of 8.5m and 6.4m respectively 2006: 6.9m and 8.4m respectively.
Investments in joint ventures include amortisation of intangible assets of nil 2006: nil.
Share of profit after tax for joint ventures does not include cumulative losses of 0.4m 2006: 0.3m in relation to a joint venture that has a carrying value of nil.
2007 2006 b Joint ventures m m The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses: Current assets 6.8 4.3 Non-current assets 0.1 0.1 Current liabilities 3.6 2.3 Non-current liabilities Income 12.4 12.3 Expenses 10.4 10.2 The principal joint ventures at 31 December 2007 are as follows: Country of incorporation Class of shares Share Accounting Company Division Type of business and operation held holding interest year end ANP Pers Support BV News Distribution News Distribution Netherlands Ordinary 50.0% 31 December CMP Weka Verlag GmbH CMP Technology Publications Germany Ordinary 50.0% 31 December Cybermedia CMP  50.0%31 December Exhibition and EMedia Asia Limited CMP Technology publicationsBarbados Asia Ordinary 39.9%31 December Guangzhou Beauty Fair CMP Asia Exhibitions China Ordinary 27.5% 31 December 96 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 16.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 2007 2006 c Associates m m The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in associated companies assets, liabilities, income and expenses: Current assets 10.5 8.9 Non-current assets 9.4 10.1 Current liabilities 12.1 11.1 Non-current liabilities 1.8 1.7 Income 34.9 36.2 Expenses 34.8 34.9 The following represents the summarised gross financial information of the Groups associated companies assets, liabilities, income and expenses: Current assets 54.1 42.1 Non-current assets 50.6 50.9 Current liabilities 62.6 51.5 Non-current liabilities 9.8 9.5 Income 185.3 182.0 Expenses 184.9 175.7 Details of the Groups associates at 31 December 2007 are as follows: Country of Type of incorporation Class of shares Share Accounting Company Division business registration held holding interest year end Axilog S. A. CMPMedica Publications France Ordinary 25.1% 31 December eXalt Solutions Inc CMP Technology Online services United States A preferred 25.0% 31 December Independent Television News Limited Corporate operations Broadcasting Great Britain Ordinary 20.0% 31 December PA Group Limited Corporate operations News distribution Great Britain Ordinary 17.0% 31 December PR Newswire do Brasil News distribution News distribution Brazil Ordinary 38.0% 31 December 17.
Other Investments 2007 2006 m m Unlisted shares 1.6 2.7 The unlisted investments are measured at cost as there is no market value in an active market for these investments and their fair values cannot be reliably measured.
The Group classifies its other investments as available for sale.
Inventories 2007 2006 m m Raw materials and consumables paper stock 2.9 2.9 Work in progress 4.0 3.6 Finished goods and goods for resale 0.2 0.2 Total inventories 7.1 6.7 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 12.7m 2006: 17.4m.
The total write-down of inventories included in cost of sales is nil 2006: nil.
Trade and other receivables As restated 2007 2006 m m Trade receivables 127.2 121.8 Less: provision for impairment on receivables 4.2 4.2 Trade receivables net 123.0 117.6 Other receivables 23.9 23.7 Prepayments and accrued income 27.2 27.8 Pension prepayments defined contribution schemes 2.5 2.8 176.6 171.9 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
The maximum credit risk associated with the Groups trade receivables is equal to their carrying value.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2007 2006 m m At 1 January 4.2 4.1 Provision for receivables impairment 2.0 2.8 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1.8 3.7 Acquisitions 0.8 2.1 Currency translation 1.0 1.1 At 31 December 4.2 4.2 The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other cost of sales and administration costs in the income statement see Note 5.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables of 4.2m 2006: 4.2m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 4.2m at the balance sheet date 2006: 4.2m.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Under 3 months 1.1 0.3 Over 3 months 3.1 3.9 4.2 4.2 As of 31 December 2007, trade receivables of 63.1m 2006: 56.0m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Under 3 months 55.5 47.9 Over 3 months 7.6 8.1 63.1 56.0 98 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 20.
Financial assets 2007 2006 m m Financial assets non-current Available for sale financial assets 1.6 2.7 Other financial assets current Forward currency hedging contracts 0.3 Interest rate swaps 4.3 5.8 4.6 5.8 The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments as fair value through profit and loss.
The purpose of the interest rate swaps and the cash flow hedge accounting used is described in Note 22.
The value of the derivatives are calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using present value of future cash flows implied by the forward curve.
The Group only enters into derivative contracts with major banks of high quality credit standing with which it has a lending relationship.
Cash and short term deposits 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank and in hand 35.5 56.3 Short term deposits 59.5 259.9 95.0 316.2 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2007 is 95.0m 2006: 316.2m.
The Group only deposits surplus cash with major banks of high quality credit standing with which is has a lending relationship.
The Group classifies all its cash and short-term deposits as loans and receivables.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank and in hand 35.5 56.3 Short-term deposits 59.5 259.9 95.0 316.2 Bank overdrafts see Note 21 0.3 3.4 94.7 312.8 21.
Financial liabilities 2007 2006 m m Current Bank overdrafts 0.3 3.4 Interest rate swaps 0.2 0.2 Current instalments due on bank loans 39.0 184.6 39.5 188.2 Non-current Non-current instalments due on bank loans 210.3 7.75% US bonds 2.9 2.9 213.2 2.9 The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments as fair value through profit and loss and its bank overdrafts, bank loans and 7.75% US bonds as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities continued 2007 2006 m m Bank loans 53.1m variable rates loan 2008 39.0 35.8 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 13.2 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 148.2 CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 0.8 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 195.8 Other 0.5 0.6 249.3 184.6 31 December 2007 553.1m variable rates loan 2008 This unsecured loan is repayable on 16 December 2008 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%.
CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 This unsecured loan is repayable on 27 May 2010 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.3% CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 This unsecured revolving facility is repayable on 27 May 2010 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.3%.
At 31 December 2007, CAD1.7m of this loan was drawn leaving CAD4.3m undrawn.
325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 This 325m multi-currency unsecured revolving facility is repayable on 27 July 2012 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%.
Drawings from the facility are as follows: Currency of borrowing m Euro 145.0 106.5 US dollar 150.0 75.4 Japanese Yen 3,100.0 13.9 195.8 The undrawn portion of this facility is 129.2m.
31 December 2006 53.1m variable rates loan 2007 This unsecured loan is repayable on 19 December 2007 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%.
325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 This unsecured revolving facility is repayable on 27 May 2010 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%.
Currency of borrowing m Euro 198.0 139.2 Japanese Yen 2,100.0 9.0 148.2 The undrawn portion of this facility is 182.6m.
100 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 22.
Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies and the Groups policies on capital management are set out in the discussion of Treasury policies on pages 32 and 33 in the Operating and Financial Review.
Fair values The table below compares the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments.
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value 2007 2007 2006 2006 m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 95.0 95.0 316.2 316.2 Available for sale investments 1.6 1.6 2.7 2.7 Interest rate swaps 4.3 4.3 5.8 5.8 Forward currency contracts 0.3 0.3 101.2 101.2 324.7 324.7 Financial liabilities 7.75% US bonds 2.9 3.0 2.9 3.0 Bank overdrafts 0.3 0.3 3.4 3.4 53.1m variable rates loan 2008 39.0 39.0 35.8 35.8 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 13.2 13.2 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 148.2 148.2 CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 0.8 0.8 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 195.8 195.8 Other 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 Interest rate swaps 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 252.7 252.8 191.1 191.2 The variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 of 145m is subject to the hedging disclosed below.
Market values have been used to calculate the value of the $5.7m of 7.75% US bonds.
The fair value of derivatives is calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using present value of future cash flows implied by the forward curve.
The fair value of cash at bank and deposits approximates to their book value due to their short maturity.
Listed investments are valued at market rate.
For all other financial assets and liabilities the carrying amount has been used.
Hedges Cash flow hedges 2007 2006 m m Interest rate swaps derivative financial assets 4.3 Interest rate swaps derivative financial liabilities 0.2 Forward currency contracts 4.1 At 31 December 2007 the Group held five interest rate swap contracts designated as hedges of expected payments under 145m of borrowing from the Groups variable rate multi-option facility.
The swap contracts mature in May 2010.
The Group also held an interest rate swap contract designated as a hedge of expected payments under JPY2,100m of borrowing from the Groups variable rate multi-option facility.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2007.
At 31 December 2007, the Group held a number of forward currency contracts as follows: Three contracts designated as hedges of $1.2m expected future customer US dollar receipts in a subsidiary undertaking with a sterling functional currency.
The forward currency contracts, which mature at various points before the end of February 2008 are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of the firm commitments and have been negotiated to match the terms of those commitments.
The fair value of these derivatives at 31 December 2007 was less than 0.1m.
Financial instruments continued Net investment in foreign operations Included in borrowings at 31 December 2007 was a borrowing of 145.0m with a fair value of 150.6, which has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the European operations within the Groups CMPMedica division, and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Included in borrowings at 31 December 2007 was a borrowing of $150m which has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the US division, CMP Technology and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Included in borrowings at 31 December 2007 was a borrowing of JPY3,100m of which JPY1,500m has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Japanese subsidiary CMP Japan and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investment in these subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The following tables set out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Groups financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 31 December 2007 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 115.9 115.9 Interest rate swaps 4.1 4.1 7.75% US bonds 2.9 2.9 2.9 4.1 115.9 114.7 Floating rate Cash 95.0 95.0 Bank overdraft 0.3 0.3 53.1m variable rates loan 2008 39.0 39.0 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 13.2 13.2 CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 0.8 0.8 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 79.9 79.9 Other 0.5 0.5 55.7 14.5 79.9 38.7 31 December 2006 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 148.2 148.2 Interest rate swaps 5.6 5.6 7.75% US bonds 2.9 2.9 148.2 2.9 5.6 145.5 Floating rate Cash 316.2 316.2 Bank overdraft 3.4 3.4 53.1m variable rates loan 2008 35.8 35.8 Other 0.6 0.6 277.0 0.6 276.4 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at set intervals of less than one year.
The effect of the interest rate swaps is discussed below.
102 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 22.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk continued The following table demonstrates the impact on the Groups profit before tax of possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit Impact on Increase in before tax equity 2007 basis points m m Sterling 100 0.5 US dollar 200 0.1 Euro 100 0.1 1.9 Japanese yen 25 Canadian dollar 100 0.1 Cash flow interest rate hedges remove some of the exposure to interest rates from the floating rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2007, the Group had cash flow hedges in relation to 145m of the amount borrowed from the 325m revolving credit facility.
The impact of the cash flow hedges was to fix euro floating rate borrowings at a rate of 2.97%.
The Group did not have material Canadian dollar interest rate exposure until September 2007, when the Group acquired Semiconductor Insights.
Effect on profit before Increase in tax 2006 basis points m Sterling 100 0.2 US dollar 200 0.9 Euro 100 0.2 Japanese yen 25 Credit risk The Groups following financial instruments are exposed to credit risk: 2007 2006 m m Cash at bank and in hand 35.5 56.3 Short-term deposits 59.5 259.9 Interest rate swaps 4.3 5.8 99.3 322.0 The Group only deposits surplus cash with major banks of high quality credit standing with which it has a lending relationship.
The Group only enters into derivative contracts with major banks of high quality credit standing.
Foreign currency risk The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in the US dollar, euro and Japanese yen exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities and forward currency contracts and the Groups equity due to changes in the fair value of forward currency hedges and net investment hedges.
31 December 2007 Effect Currency on profit Effect on depreciates before tax equity by m m US dollar 5% 1.8 Euro 5% 0.1 4.9 Japanese yen 5% 0.2 0.5 31 December 2006 Effect Currency on profit Effect on depreciates before tax equity by m m US dollar 5% 0.1 Euro 5% 0.1 6.6 Japanese yen 5% 0.5 103 22.
Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
31 December 2007 Due Due within 1 between 1 Due 5 years On demand year and 5 years and beyond Total m m m m m 7.75% US bonds 0.2 3.1 3.3 Bank overdrafts 0.3 0.3 53.1m variable rates loan 2008 41.0 41.0 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 0.6 14.1 14.7 CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 0.9 0.9 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 8.9 226.3 235.2 Other 0.6 0.6 Derivative financial liabilities 0.2 0.2 Trade payables 60.2 60.2 Deferred consideration 7.1 16.0 23.1 0.3 118.2 261.0 379.5 31 December 2006 Due within 1 Due between Due 5 years On demand year 1 and 5 years and beyond Total m m m m m 7.75% US bonds 0.2 3.3 3.5 Bank overdrafts 3.4 3.4 53.1m variable rates loan 2008 37.4 37.4 325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 168.8 168.8 Other 0.8 0.8 Derivative financial liabilities 0.2 0.2 Trade payables 59.4 59.4 Deferred consideration 8.7 1.2 9.9 3.4 274.7 5.3 283.4 The above tables include an estimate of interest on the Groups financial liabilities based on the forward interest rate curve and assume the liabilities are in place until their maturity dates.
Trade and other payables As restated 2007 2006 m m Current Trade payables 60.2 59.4 Other payables 31.1 28.7 Deferred consideration 7.1 8.7 Other taxes and social security 15.6 13.4 Accruals and deferred income 184.8 222.0 298.8 332.2 Non-current Other creditors 2.7 1.7 Deferred consideration 16.0 1.2 Accruals and deferred income 0.1 1.1 18.8 4.0 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
104 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 24.
Provisions Reorganisation Former and financial Prior period restructuring Property services disposals Total m m m m m At 1 January 2007 as restated 7.1 44.9 0.9 52.9 Arising during the year 15.8 3.8 19.6 Transfer from accruals 9.7 22.0 31.7 Utilised in the year 17.0 11.2 0.1 3.9 32.2 Released in the year 2.0 2.0 Currency translation 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2007 5.9 46.7 0.8 16.1 69.5 Current 5.9 19.4 2.0 27.3 Non-current 27.3 0.8 14.1 42.2 At 31 December 2007 5.9 46.7 0.8 16.1 69.5 Reorganisation Former and As restated Financial Prior period As restated restructuring Property Services disposals Total m m m m m At 1 January 2006 22.1 47.0 0.9 70.0 Arising during the year 13.7 13.7 Acquisitions 0.7 0.7 Utilised in the year 17.3 10.6 27.9 Transfer 3.2 3.2 Currency translation 0.9 2.7 3.6 At 31 December 2006 7.1 44.9 0.9 52.9 Current 6.7 18.0 0.1 24.8 Non-current 0.4 26.9 0.8 28.1 At 31 December 2006 7.1 44.9 0.9 52.9 Certain liabilities previously held within accruals have been reclassified as provisions during the year, as it is considered that this classification is more appropriate given the nature of the balances.
The amounts transferred represented 9.7m in respect of future obligations for vacant property and 22.0m in respect of disposals made in prior years.
Liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring As discussed in Note 7, the Group has implemented a number of reorganisation and restructuring projects during 2007.
CMP Technology announced a restructuring to align its product portfolio and organisational structure to the changing needs of its customers, and to better position the business to take advantage of growth opportunities in events, online and data.
The redundancy and reorganisation and restructuring costs have been substantially incurred at the year end and the amount relating to vacant property will be incurred over the remainder of the lease term.
The exceptional charge of 5.7m includes 2.8m relating to the costs of redundancy of 60 people, 1.2m of vacant property costs and 1.7m of other reorganisation costs.
Liabilities on property The Group has lease obligations in respect of the continuing costs of vacant property, the quantification of which depends upon the ability to exit the leases early or sublet the properties, and for dilapidations on certain leasehold properties which are dependent principally on actual reinstatement costs on expiry of the leases.
The provision in respect of these obligations at 31 December 2007 has been determined following external professional advice and will be utilised over the period of the leases in question, which range from one to 14 years.
The provision is discounted at an appropriate cost of capital.
The amounts discussed under liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring relating to vacant property have been included within liabilities on property.
Provisions continued Liabilities arising from former financial services activities A subsidiary of the Group was formerly engaged in the selling of personal pensions prior to 1996.
As a result of the industry-wide review into pension misselling by the Personal Investment Authority, the Group is exposed to actual and potential future claims by investors in respect of policies found to have been missold.
Although work continues to progress with respect to the identification and review of all pension policies sold, the number and amount of such claims cannot be finally determined until all potential compensation costs have been agreed.
The amount of the provisions at 31 December 2007 has been determined on the basis of independent financial advice.
Disposal provisions The Group has made a number of disposals of businesses in prior years.
Warranty and other claims may be brought against the Group in relation to these disposed businesses generally over periods of up to seven years after the date of disposal.
The provision in respect of these items has been determined based upon the contract terms of each disposal and are reassessed on an annual basis over the period during which claims may be brought against the Group.
Retirement benefit obligation The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The charge for the year in relation to defined contribution schemes was 4.6m 2006: 4.3m.
In 2007, the defined benefit pension schemes included in the calculations were the United Pension Plan, the United Magazines Final Salary Scheme, the defined benefit section of the United Group Pension Scheme, The Builder Group Pension Scheme, the CMP Media LLC Cash Balance Retirement Plan, the United News Executive Pension Scheme, CMP Post Retirement Medical Plan and the OAG Pension Scheme.
The most recent actuarial valuations were carried out at various dates in 2005 and updated to 31 December 2007 by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit method.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: Other As restated Other As restated UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 455.9 24.9 480.8 445.0 28.3 473.3 Benefit obligation 415.6 29.0 444.6 445.2 31.9 477.1 Asset liability in the balance sheet 40.3 4.1 36.2 0.2 3.6 3.8 Pension plan assets include equities, bonds, insurance policies and cash.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Other Other UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Current service cost 1.1 2.1 3.2 0.6 2.9 3.5 Past service cost 2.5 2.5 Curtailments 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Settlement 0.1 0.1 0.8 2.2 3.0 2.4 2.9 0.5 Interest cost 22.5 1.4 23.9 21.5 1.5 23.0 Expected return on plan assets 26.5 1.9 28.4 23.6 1.9 25.5 4.0 0.5 4.5 2.1 0.4 2.5 Total pension credit charge 3.2 1.7 1.5 4.5 2.5 2.0 Of the total credit charge, 3.0m charge and 4.5m credit 2006: 0.5m charge and 2.5m credit were included in Operating expenses and Financing income pension schemes respectively.
The actual return on plan assets was 29.5m 2006: 34.5m.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the investments currently held to provide for the pension benefit obligations as at 31 December 2007.
Plan assets chiefly consist of equity instruments and fixed income investments.
The expected rate of return on equities was based on expected long-term out-performance of equities over government bonds of 3.5% p. a.
For UK schemes, the PA92 Year of Birth standard tables have been used.
These tables allow for life expectancy to improve over time due to improvements in medical treatments and other lifestyle factors such that younger members who have not yet reached pensionable age are expected to live longer than current pensioner members.
For current pensioner members, the tables assume that they had a life expectancy at age 65 of 19.2 years for males and 22.3 years for females.
For younger members who have not yet reached pensionable age, the tables assume they will have a life expectancy when they reach age 65 of 20.6 years for males and 23.6 years for females.
The average rate of improvement underlying the standard tables is approximately an increase of 0.7 years life expectancy in every 10 years.
In the US, RP 2000 tables are used in both years.
For US schemes, the life expectancy for a 65-year-old male is 18.8 years and a 65-year-old female is 20.8 years.
106 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 25.
Retirement benefit obligation continued In March 2006, the Group agreed to make special contributions to the UK pension schemes over the next 10 years of 1.7m p. a. and to arrange letters of credit to be issued to the scheme trustees from one or more of the Companys bankers to make up the difference between the valuation and 100% while this funding takes effect.
The value of the letters of credit issued to the scheme trustees in 2006 was 23.5m.
The main conditions under which these letters of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests of the scheme, such as insolvency, or the Group failing to make agreed payments.
Additional pension contributions of 1.7m 2006: 6.5m were made to the UK schemes during the year and nil 2006: 0.8m were made to other schemes during the year, and the total service cost for 2008 is currently expected to be 4.0m 2007: 3.2m.
The movement in the asset liability recognised in the balance sheet is as follows: As restated Other As restated Other Schemes UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m At 1 January 0.2 3.6 3.8 42.0 4.8 46.8 Total income expenses recognised in the income statement 3.2 1.7 1.5 4.5 2.5 2.0 Net actuarial gains recognised in the year 34.3 0.5 34.8 32.6 0.1 32.5 Net actuarial losses recognised due to the adoption of IFRIC 14 2.4 2.4 Contributions paid by UBM 3.0 1.0 4.0 7.1 3.7 10.8 Currency translation 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 40.3 4.1 36.2 0.2 3.6 3.8 The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the Groups plan are shown below: Other Other UK Schemes Schemes UK Schemes Schemes 2007 2007 2006 2006 % % % % Discount rate 5.80 5.67 5.20 5.62 Expected return on plan assets 6.44 7.44 6.31 7.21 Future salary increases 3.75 3.39 3.90 3.41 Future pension increases 3.10 n a 2.90 n a Inflation assumption 3.10 2.48 2.90 2.46 It has been assumed that between 66-80% of retirees will exchange 32% of pension for cash.
The assumed discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions.
Impact on surplus increase decrease m 0.25 percentage point increase to: discount rate 19.0 pension increases linked to inflation 7.0 inflation 6.0 Additional one year increase to life expectancy 12.0 The UK schemes are generally closed to new members, hence under the projected unit credit method, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of the salaries of the remaining members will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Retirement benefit obligation continued The reconciliation of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: Other Other UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 445.2 31.9 477.1 453.2 32.2 485.4 Service cost 1.1 2.1 3.2 0.6 2.9 3.5 Interest cost 22.5 1.4 23.9 21.5 1.5 23.0 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Curtailment gain 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Settlement 0.6 0.6 Benefit payments 20.4 4.8 25.2 17.5 2.3 19.8 Acquisitions 12.4 12.4 Past service cost 2.5 2.5 Actuarial gain loss on liabilities 32.8 0.9 33.7 22.3 1.2 21.1 Exchange rate gain 0.1 0.1 3.6 3.6 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 415.6 29.0 444.6 445.2 31.9 477.1 The reconciliation of the plan assets is as follows: Other Other UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Assets at 1 January 445.0 28.3 473.3 411.2 27.4 438.6 Employer contributions 3.0 1.0 4.0 7.1 3.7 10.8 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Settlement 0.7 0.7 Acquisitions 12.4 12.4 Disposals Benefit payments 20.4 4.8 25.2 17.5 2.3 19.8 Actual return on assets 28.0 1.5 29.5 31.5 3.0 34.5 Exchange rate gain loss 0.4 0.4 3.5 3.5 455.9 24.9 480.8 445.0 28.3 473.3 Statement of recognised income and expenses during 2007: Other Other UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 4.2 0.7 3.5 2.2 2.0 4.2 Actuarial gains on plan liabilities due to assumptions 37.0 0.2 37.2 24.5 0.8 25.3 Experience gains losses on plan assets 1.5 0.4 1.1 7.9 1.1 9.0 Total gain loss 34.3 0.5 34.8 30.2 0.1 30.1 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses is 80.5m 2006 as restated: 45.7m.
Other Other Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 % % % % % % Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 1.0 2.4 0.8 0.5 6.3 0.9 Experience gains losses on plan assets 0.3 1.6 0.2 1.8 3.9 1.9 108 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 25.
Retirement benefit obligation continued The asset categories are as follows: Other Other UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 % % % % % % Equity 53.0 56.0 53.0 54.0 59.0 54.0 Bonds 44.0 42.0 44.0 45.0 39.0 45.0 Cash 2.0 2.0 Annuity contracts 3.0 3.0 1.0 1.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The plan assets do not include any shares in UBM or any property occupied by the Group.
History of experience gains and losses: UK Schemes UK Schemes Other Other Other UK Schemes As restated As restated Schemes Schemes Schemes 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 415.6 445.2 453.2 29.0 31.9 32.2 Plan assets 455.9 445.0 411.2 24.9 28.3 27.4 Surplus deficit in balance sheet 40.3 0.2 42.0 4.1 3.6 4.8 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 4.2 2.2 22.8 0.7 2.0 0.2 Experience gains losses on plan assets 1.5 7.9 37.0 0.4 1.1 0.1 Experience gains losses on plan assets: Other Other UK Schemes Schemes Total UK Schemes Schemes Total 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Expected return on assets 26.5 1.9 28.4 23.6 1.9 25.5 Actual return on assets 28.0 1.5 29.5 31.5 3.0 34.5 1.5 0.4 1.1 7.9 1.1 9.0 26.
Share capital continued Share repurchases The Group repurchased and cancelled 10,727,793 of its own ordinary shares during the year at an average price of 705.8p 2006: 14,055,000 ordinary shares at an average price of 663.3p.
The total amount paid to acquire the ordinary shares was 75.9m, and 0.8m was paid to acquire B shares 2006: 93.2m for ordinary shares and 1.7m for B shares.
Ordinary shares During 2006, the holders of $85.3m convertible bonds converted their bonds into 10,196,753 ordinary shares in the Company.
On 19 March 2007, in conjunction with the special dividend of 72.0p per share, a share consolidation was carried out to convert 49 existing ordinary shares 71 5 with a nominal value of 30 14p each to 44 new ordinary shares with a nominal value of 33 88p each.
The share consolidation converted the 281,591,877 existing issued and fully paid ordinary shares into 252,858,012 new issued and fully paid ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share reflects the share consolidation refer to Note 10.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods : and Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys securities.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The return of capital to shareholders undertaken in 2001 took the form of a subdivision and consolidation of the existing Company ordinary shares.
On 23 23 21 April 2001, each of the existing 507,901,885 ordinary shares of 25p then in issue were sub-divided into one share of 8 44p B shares and one share of 16 p 44 21 25 25 and immediately following such sub-division every issued share of 16 44p was sub-divided into 29 shares of 44p.
Every 44 shares of 44p each resulting from such sub-division were then consolidated into one ordinary share of 25p.
The subdivision created a class of B shares with a total value of approximately 1.25bn.
UK shareholders had the option to sell these shares back to the Company for 245p per share, to receive a single dividend of 245p per share, or to retain the B shares and receive a continuing dividend linked to LIBOR.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, 323,838 B shares were purchased by the company for consideration of 0.8m.
Cumulatively to 31 December 2007, 371,607,758 B shares have been purchased by the Company for consideration of 910.4m.
However, the Company has the authority to convert into ordinary shares, at its option, all remaining B shares in issue after 23 April 2011, if the number is less than 125m.
The conversion into ordinary shares will be based on the market price of ordinary shares at the time of the conversion.
B shares B shareholders are entitled to a non-cumulative preference dividend.
On winding up, the B shareholders are entitled to 245p per share and the relevant proportion of the dividends outstanding.
B shareholders do not have any voting entitlements except in a resolution relating to a winding up of the Company or if the B share dividend has been outstanding for more than six months.
Company share schemes The ESOP Trust and QUEST Trust see Note 28 own 1.07% 2006: 1.26% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of employees of the Group and their dependents.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
Share premium 2007 2006 m m In issue at 1 January 354.6 327.7 Premium on shares issued, net of costs 6.7 26.9 In issue at 31 December 361.3 354.6 The Company received 7.2m 2006: 29.1m on the issue of shares in respect of the exercise of options awarded under various share option plans.
110 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 28.
Share-based payments An Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP was established by the company on 24 June 1996.
The ESOP has purchased in the open market Company shares which are held on trust for employees participating in the plans listed below.
The purchase of shares in the open market is financed through contributions in cash by the Company and, for awards under the Bonus Investment Plan, through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives.
The Group also has a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the QUEST, which is a discretionary trust for the benefit of UK employees including executive directors of the Group in connection with the exercise of SAYE options.
The Group maintains seven share-based payment arrangements: 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan, UK Save As You Earn Option Scheme, International Save As You Earn Scheme, Medium Term Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Plan.
As at 31 December the holdings over the ESOP and the QUEST were as follows: Number of Number of shares shares 2007 2006 ESOP Ordinary shares 2,713,430 3,452,210 QUEST Ordinary shares 11,364 60,036 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme On 18 April 2000 the Group established a share option programme for full-time directors and certain employees.
All participants in the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme the Executive scheme must be employed by United Business Media or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
The number of options granted to a participant under the Executive scheme is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, being the committee established by the Board of Directors as such.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under the Executive scheme in any year may not be more than 25,264,262 shares being 5% of the ordinary share capital on issue at the date of establishment of the Executive scheme.
The exercise price to be paid by a participant when exercising options granted will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The price shall not be lower than the closing middle market price of shares of that class as listed on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the day prior to the grant date or the average closing middle market price of shares of that class on the three days prior to the grant date if so decided by the Remuneration Committee.
Options may be exercised after the third anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of 10 years from the date of the grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: Weighted average Weighted remaining average life Number of remaining life Number of years shares years shares Exercise price p 2007 2007 2006 2006 247.3 277.2 5.1 355,000 6.1 532,002 449.3 595.7 6.8 2,866,557 7.3 5,077,066 658.5 753.0 5.2 855,000 5.9 1,010,000 754.5 867.2 2.2 373,711 3.1 422,658 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan On 18 April 2000 the Group established a share option programme for certain directors and employees.
All participants in the 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan SEEPP must be employed by United Business Media or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Shares are purchased on the open market and financed through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives the Bonus Option under the terms of SEEPP.
The number of options granted to a participant under SEEPP is dependent on the level of the annual bonus awarded.
The Remuneration Committee may then exercise its discretion to grant an equal number of shares the Matching Option as granted under the Bonus Option.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under SEEPP in any year may not be more than 50,528,525 shares, being 10% of the ordinary share capital on issue at the date of establishment of the plan.
There is no monetary consideration payable for the options granted under the plan to directors and employees, these are granted by Deed only.
The Remuneration Committee is also able to grant shares or options to the Trustees of the ESOP.
If shares of the class issued are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the exercise price shall not be lower than the closing middle market price of shares of that class as listed on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the day prior to the date that the options are granted or on the date of issue of shares.
Options may be exercised after the fourth anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
One-third of Matching options vest subject to adjusted earnings per share EPS see Note 10 growth exceeding retail price index RPI growth plus 3%: one-third of options vest subject to adjusted EPS growth exceeding RPI growth plus 5% per annum over 4 years: the final third is not subject to performance criteria.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year were 0.3 million which have an exercise price of nil, and an average weighted remaining life of six years.
The SEEPP has now been closed and no further grants will be made under the scheme.
Share-based payments continued Save As You Earn Option Schemes On 6 May 2004, the Group established the Sharesave Scheme SAYE' for directors and certain employees.
Under these schemes all participants in the SAYE scheme must be employed by United Business Media or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
The number of options granted to a participant under the SAYE scheme is at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under the SAYE scheme in any year may not be more than 10% of the ordinary share capital on issue at the time of granting options.
The exercise price to be paid by a participant when exercising options granted will be determined by the directors and shall not be less than the greater of 80% of market value of the shares at the date of invitation to enter the SAYE scheme or the nominal value of unissued shares.
Options may be exercised after either the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the grant date in accordance with each employee's Savings Contract.
Options must normally be exercised within six months of the date the options are exercisable or within 12 months in the case of death.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death, or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or, at the absolute discretion of the Board, redundancy.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: Weighted average Weighted remaining average life Number of remaining life Number of years shares years shares Exercise price p 2007 2007 2006 2006 160.5 1.3 257,638 2.7 313,530 412.3 497.2 2.4 338,822 2.5 488,653 640.1 3.4 550,224 Medium Term Incentive Plan Medium Term Incentive Plan MTIP participants must be employed by United Business Media or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
The number of options granted to a participant under the MTIP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Only market-purchased shares may be used for awards under the MTIP.
The value of the MTIP award is based on a percentage of salary as determined by the Remuneration Committee each year, following assessment of the employee company performance over the prior financial year the performance year.
The number granted is based on dividing the value of the award by the average share price in December preceding the performance year.
There is no monetary consideration payable for the options granted and shares subsequently acquired under the plan to directors and employees, these are granted by Deed only.
Options may be exercised in two stages: 50% of options may be exercised in January of the second financial year after the year in which they were granted: the remaining 50% may be exercised in January of the third financial year after the options were granted.
Options may only be granted subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of seven years from the date of the grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
The exercise price of the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2007 is nil 2006: nil, and the weighted average life of the share options is four years.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year expiring on 25 March 2011, 31 March 2012, 3 April 2013 and 4 April 2014 were 0.1 million 2006: 0.2 million, 0.2 million 2006: 0.3 million, 0.1 million 2006: 0.1 million and 0.1 million 2006: nil respectively.
Performance Share Plan In 2005 the Group established an incentive plan for full-time directors and senior executives.
All participants in the Performance Share Plan PSP must be employed by United Business Media or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the awards.
The value of awards granted to a participant under the PSP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, but may not exceed 1.5 times base salary, save that in exceptional circumstances awards of up to two times base salary may be made.
During 2006 grants were made under the PSP to full-time directors and senior executives, which requires United Business Medias total shareholder return TSR to outperform a comparator group of companies over a three year period.
25% of the award will vest if TSR is at median position subject to a maximum value of 25% of base salary and 100% if TSR is in the top decile.
In between these positions, the award will vest on a straight line basis.
During 2006 grants were also made under the PSP to certain employees, excluding full-time directors and senior executives and in place of grants under the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, which requires United Business Medias adjusted earnings per share EPS to grow by at least 7% per annum above UK inflation over a three year period.
A lower proportion of the shares shall vest provided adjusted EPS grows by over 3% per annum above UK inflation over the period.
The awards are made in the form of options exercisable on payment of a nominal value of 1.
The number of ordinary shares over which an award is made is calculated by dividing the monetary value of the award by the price of UBM ordinary shares at the time of grant.
The number of ordinary shares over which awards may be granted under the Performance Plan may not result in more than 10% of the ordinary share capital being issued or issuable under the companys incentive plans in any ten year period.
It is expected that market purchased shares will generally be used to satisfy awards under the PSP.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year expiring on 12 October 2015, 7 November 2015, 13 March 2016, 31 July 2016, 7 March 2017 and 27 March 2017 were 0.4 million 2006: 0.4 million, 0.3 million 2006: 0.4 million, 0.5 million 2006: 0.5 million, 0.7 million 2006: 0.8 million, 0.6 million 2006: nil and 0.5 million 2006: nil respectively.
112 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 28.
Share-based payment continued Bonus Investment Plan On 26 September 2005 the Group established the Bonus Incentive Plan BIP, which replaced the SEEPP.
This enables participants to defer part of their annual bonus into United Business Media ordinary shares and provides the opportunity to earn further shares.
25% of any annual bonus award will be automatically be deferred into shares to be held for three years, and the participant may also elect to defer up to a further 25% into shares for the same period.
At the end of three years if the employee remains in service with the company then the participant could receive a matching award of up to two additional shares for every share held if the Companys adjusted earnings per share have grown by more than an average of at least 7% per annum above UK retail price index growth over the three year period.
A lower ratio of matching shares may be earned if earnings per share have grown by more than 3% per annum above UK retail price index growth.
Awards are made in the form of options which are exercisable on payment of a nominal 1.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under the BIP depends on the monetary value of the bonus awarded to an employee during the year.
The amount of bonus depends upon employee company performance over the prior financial year the year of performance measurement.
For the element which is mandatorily paid in shares, the number is calculated by dividing 25% of the monetary value of the bonus by the average December share price in the year preceding the year of performance measurement.
For any further element which the employee elects to defer into shares, the number is calculated by dividing the relevant monetary value by the share price at the time of the award.
Options, once vested, must normally be exercised before the expiry of 10 years from the date of grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death, or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year expiring on 13 March 2016 and 7 March 2017 were 0.5 million 2006: 0.5 million and 0.5 million 2006: nil respectively.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year for all plans is as follows: 2007 2007 2007 2000 Executive 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price million p million p million p At 1 January 7.1 559.2 0.5 0.8 338.6 Granted 0.6 640.1 Forfeited 0.1 295.3 Exercised 2.3 501.8 0.2 0.1 371.4 Expired 0.3 669.6 0.1 582.1 4.5 582.4 0.3 1.1 479.4 Exercisable at 31 December 2007 2.5 572.6 0.1 2007 2007 2007 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number of exercise Number exercise Number exercise options price of options price of options price million p million p million p At 1 January 0.6 2.1 0.5 Granted 0.1 1.2 0.5 Forfeited 0.3 Exercised 0.2 Expired 0.5 3.0 1.0 Exercisable at 31 December 2007 0.2 There are periodic share option exercises throughout the year and the average UBM share price in 2007 was 748.0p 2006: 663.8p.
Share-based payment continued 2006 2006 2006 2000 Executive 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price million p million p million p At 1 January 16.3 539.8 0.5 2.0 223.9 Granted 0.3 734.0 0.2 497.2 Forfeited 0.3 270.8 Exercised 6.5 428.5 1.0 175.0 Expired 3.0 754.8 0.1 377.1 7.1 559.2 0.5 0.8 338.6 Exercisable at 31 December 2006 2.8 581.8 2006 2006 2006 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price of options price million p million p million p At 1 January 0.7 0.8 Granted 0.1 1.3 0.5 Forfeited Exercised 0.2 Expired 0.6 2.1 0.5 Exercisable at 31 December 2006 Valuation of share-based payments Options were valued using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo option-pricing models.
The following table provides the most significant assumptions made during the year ended 31 December 2007: 2007 2006 Dividend yield 3.5% 2.2% Expected volatility 20.0% 20.0% Risk-free rate 5.3% 4.6% Forfeiture assumptions: 2000 Executive scheme, 2000 SEEPP scheme, MTIP, BIP, PSP and ERP 5.0% 5.0% SAYE 10.0% 10.0% Weighted average share price at grant date: Options 800p 683p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 737p 597p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 782p 656p Weighted average fair value at grant date: Options 223p 131p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 655p 556p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 414p 336p Expected life Equal to vesting period Equal to vesting period The expected volatility is based on historic trends.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zerocoupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The Monte Carlo simulation model used for valuing PSP awards with a TSR performance condition requires additional assumptions.
A single co-efficient assumption of 19% based on historical analysis has been used in the current and comparative year, representing the level of correlation of growth in TSR between each of the 17 2006: 21 companies being simulated in the model.
The three year historical volatility for each company in the comparator group at the grant date in 2007 has been analysed and this historical volatility has been used in the simulation model to project TSR for each company.
The average of these volatilities is 25% 2006: 31%.
The total charge for the year relating to the employee share-based payment plans was 7.5m 2006: 7.5m.
6.9m 2006: 7.0m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
0.6m 2006: 0.5m represents that 25% of bonus which may be deferred for shares under the BIP at the option of the employee and this is treated as cash-settled until the actual deferral amount is known.
At 31 December 2007, the cash-settled liability was 0.6m 2006: 0.5m.
There are no cash alternatives for the schemes.
114 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 28.
Share-based payment continued The total charge for the year relating to the employee share-based payment plans includes an amount in relation to 0.8 million nil cost MTIP and BIP options that it is expected may be granted in 2008.
The weighted average fair value for these awards is 558p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2007.
The expense will be adjusted in 2008 to allow for the actual number of awards granted and fair value at grant date.
In the 2006 total charge for the year it was expected that 0.5 million nil cost MTIP and BIP options were to be granted with a weighted average fair value of 611p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2006.
The Group has adopted the exemption in IFRS 2 Share-based payments to fair value options granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
Other reserves Foreign currency Capital redemption translation Merger Other Total other Retained Minority reserve reserve reserve ESOP reserve reserve reserves earnings interests Total m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2006 as previously stated 31.3 43.8 1.8 19.3 125.0 179.0 149.9 2.7 31.8 Change in accounting policy relating to adoption of IFRIC 14 5.5 5.5 Restated balance at 1 January 2006 31.3 43.8 1.8 19.3 125.0 179.0 144.4 2.7 37.3 Total recognised income and expense for the year 38.8 38.8 172.0 4.0 137.2 Shares repurchased and cancelled by the Company including costs 4.3 4.3 95.4 91.1 Share-based payment 2.1 2.1 Equity dividend 44.6 44.6 Minority interest dividend 4.5 4.5 Consolidation of entity previously equity accounted 2.6 2.6 Issue of ordinary shares 69.8 69.8 69.8 Shares awarded by ESOP 5.4 5.4 5.4 Own shares purchased by the Company 13.9 13.9 13.9 Restated balance at 31 December 2006 101.1 48.1 40.6 27.8 125.0 205.8 110.3 4.8 100.3 Total recognised income and expense for the year 0.3 4.1 4.4 129.9 5.8 140.1 Shares repurchased and cancelled by the Company including costs 3.7 3.7 76.7 73.0 Share-based payment 2.9 2.9 Equity dividend 246.7 246.7 Minority interest dividend 3.9 3.9 Consolidation of entity previously equity accounted 1.0 1.0 Shares awarded by ESOP 4.0 4.0 4.0 Own shares purchased by the Company 0.2 0.2 0.2 Balance at 31 December 2007 101.1 51.8 40.3 24.0 129.1 217.7 300.9 5.7 77.5 Merger relief In 2006, the Group applied the provisions of section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and obtained merger relief on the issue of 10,196,753 ordinary shares which were exchanged on conversion by the holders of $85.3m convertible bonds in place of preference shares in United Business Media Jersey Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
As a result the issue of the shares have been recorded at nominal value and a merger relief reserve created.
Capital redemption reserve Entries are made to the capital redemption reserve to ensure there is no reduction in capital when the Group repurchases its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments of foreign operations.
Other reserve This reserve includes the unrealised gains and losses reserve which records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge.
ESOP reserve The ESOP reserve records ordinary shares held by the ESOP to satisfy future share awards.
The shares are recorded at cost.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group completed 17 acquisitions during 2007.
On 4 January 2007, the Group acquired Quest Media Limited for cash consideration of 5.0m.
The transaction adds six award events, three conferences and an associated magazine.
On 17 January 2007, the Group acquired an additional 2% of the voting rights of RISI, Inc. RISI for cash consideration of $1.0m.
This equity purchase brings UBMs total shareholding in RISI to 52%, giving UBM a controlling interest in the company.
On 1 March 2007, the Groups majority-owned subsidiary, RISI, acquired EU Consulting for cash consideration of 0.4m.
On 7 March 2007, the Group acquired a 25% equity holding in eXalt Solutions Inc eXalt, a leading provider of on-demand web-based services for IT solution sales, for cash consideration of $2.0m.
The Group also has an option to purchase an additional 15% equity holding in eXalt.
The Group accounts for eXalt Solutions Inc as an associate.
On 17 April 2007, the Group acquired Vintage Filings, LLC, a leading US Edgar filing business, for initial cash consideration of $38.0m.
A further performancedependent consideration of up to $15.0m will be payable over the next four years.
On 26 April 2007, the Group acquired Physicians Practice, LLC for cash consideration of $17.5m, with a further  consideration of $0.5m.
On 25 May 2007, the Group along with its joint venture partner, BolognaFiere, completed the acquisition of a 55% interest in the Guangzhou Beauty Fair.
The Groups share of the purchase consideration was $3.0m and UBM has a 27.5% effective holding in the fair, which it accounts for as a joint venture.
On 2 July 2007, the Group acquired How Machines Work Corporation for an initial cash consideration of $1.2m and a further  consideration payable of up to $0.6m.
On 26 July 2007, the Group completed the following acquisitions: Semiconductor Insights Inc for an initial cash consideration of $26.0m.
A further  consideration of up to $8.0m will be payable over the next three years: Notilog, a leading Latin American news monitoring service, for an initial cash consideration of $4.0m.
A further  consideration of up to $5.0m will be payable over the next two years: Australia Prescription Products Guide for a total cash consideration of A$1.0m.
On 13 September 2007, the Group acquired Ithaca Holdings, a UK events business, for a total cash consideration of 14.3m.
On 21 September 2007, the Group acquired the Decorex tradeshow for total cash consideration of 2.2m.
On 9 October 2007, the Group acquired the Energy Solutions Expo for total cash consideration of 1.0m.
On 9 November 2007, the Group acquired Portelligent, Inc. for an initial cash consideration of $8.0m.
A further  consideration of up to $4.0m will be payable over the next three years.
On 21 December 2007, the Group completed the acquisition of the Intermodal South America trade show for a total cash consideration of 3.4m.
On 31 December 2007, the Group completed the acquisition of HispaniMark, LLC for an initial cash consideration of $5.5m, with a further performancerelated consideration of up to $3.0m payable over the next three years.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting rights in all cases where acquisitions involved the purchase of companies unless where otherwise stated.
The acquisition accounting for Portelligent, Inc, Intermodal South America trade show and HispaniMark, LLC has been determined on a preliminary basis as the valuation exercise at the date of the acquisition is ongoing.
116 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value in respect of the acquisition of Vintage Filings, LLC: Vintage Filings Fair Acquirees value to carrying Group amount 2007 2007 m m Intangible assets 5.2 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.2 Trade receivables and other current assets 1.3 1.7 6.6 1.9 Trade payables and other current liabilities 1.2 0.6 Fair value of net assets 5.4 Goodwill arising on acquisition 21.0 26.4 2007 m Consideration: Cash paid 18.9 Deferred consideration 7.5 Total consideration 26.4 The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value in respect of the acquisition of other businesses during 2007: Fair Acquirees value to carrying Group amount 2007 2007 m m Intangible assets 21.5 0.7 Property, plant and equipment 1.9 2.3 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 2.2 Trade receivables and other current assets 9.2 6.4 Associates and joint ventures 2.7 37.5 11.6 Trade payables and other current liabilities 11.2 6.6 Deferred tax liability 5.4 Non-current liabilities 0.2 0.2 16.8 6.8 Fair value of net assets 20.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition 55.0 75.7 2007 m Consideration: Cash paid 61.8 Deferred consideration 13.9 Total consideration 75.7 117 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The total consideration paid and payable on acquisitions is shown below: 2007 m Consideration: Cash paid 80.7 Deferred consideration 21.4 Total consideration 102.1 The Group completed 18 acquisitions during 2006.
On 11 January 2006, the Group acquired MediaLive International, Inc. MediaLive for a cash consideration of $65.0m.
The transaction adds more than 20 IT and telecoms-related events in the US, Japan, and Europe.
On 11 January 2006, the Group acquired Shorecliff Communications LLC, a US events business, for a cash consideration of $12.3m plus performance-related consideration of up to $1.4m.
Shorecliffs four principal events focus on the high growth technology markets of radio frequency identification, broadband services, wireless infrastructure and telecoms television internet protocol television.
On 13 March 2006 the Group acquired ownership of a set of assets from Mediworld Publications, an Indian medical publisher, for 0.4m plus performancerelated consideration of up to 0.3m.
On 4 April 2006 the Group acquired ownership of the National Venue Show for 1.5m.
On 1 June 2006, the Group acquired Cable Digital News Inc, an online B2B media business providing news and analysis of the North American cable industry, for a total cash consideration of $0.3m.
On 30 June 2006, the Group acquired MeXi Solutions, a secure communication and data access solutions provider to the Belgian healthcare industry, for a total cash consideration of 2.6m.
On 30 June 2006, the Group acquired ownership of the Thames Gateway Forum for 3.0m plus performance-related consideration of up to 0.2m.
On 19 July 2006, the Group acquired Commonwealth Business Media, Inc. Commonwealth for a cash consideration of $152.0m.
Commonwealth is a leading specialist business intelligence provider to the international trade and transportation industry with comprehensive proprietary data, news and analytical content.
On 2 October 2006, the Group acquired US Newswire, a leading news distribution business focused on government and public interest sectors, for an initial cash consideration of $19.0m plus performance-related consideration of up to $4.0m.
On 6 October 2006, the Group acquired ownership of The Care Show for 0.4m plus performance-related consideration of 0.3m.
On 6 October 2006, the Group also acquired ownership of the ATC Air Traffic Control Maastricht Conference for a total cash consideration of 0.1m.
On 9 October 2006, the Group acquired The Austin Game Initiative LLC, a producer of conferences and events targeting game industry professionals for a total cash consideration of $1.1m.
On 5 December 2006, the Group acquired ownership of the Software 2007 conference for an initial cash consideration of $5.5m plus performance-related consideration of up to $3.5m.
On 6 December 2006, the Group acquired OAG Holdings Limited OAG, an information provider to the global aviation industry, for a total cash consideration of 2.5m.
On 6 December 2006, the UBMs subsidiary, CNW Group Limited, acquired Health Response Communications, a news distribution business focused on the healthcare industry, for cash consideration of CAD1.5m.
On 15 December 2006, the Group acquired MediReach Healthcare Communication, a provider of medical and pharmaceutical marketing consultancy services, for an initial cash consideration of $1.1m plus performance-related consideration of up to $2.75m.
On 21 December 2006, the Group acquired Aviation Industry Group Limited, an information provider to the global aviation industry with a portfolio of events, print titles and websites, for initial cash consideration of 6.0m plus performance-related consideration of 1.0m.
On 21 December 2006, the Group also acquired Customer Contact Center Standard for a total cash consideration of $0.4m.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting rights in all cases where acquisitions involved the purchase of companies.
118 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value in respect of the MediaLive and Commonwealth acquisitions: MediaLive Commonwealth Acquirees As restated Acquirees Fair value to carrying Fair value to carrying Group amount Group amount 2006 2006 2006 2006 m m m m Intangible assets 9.5 23.2 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 2.4 3.1 Cash and cash equivalents 3.3 3.3 0.3 0.3 Trade receivables and other current assets 3.3 3.3 4.8 5.8 16.5 7.0 30.7 9.2 Trade payables and other current liabilities 8.2 8.2 2.2 1.6 Deferred tax liability 8.1 Non-current liabilities 7.7 7.7 8.2 8.2 18.0 9.3 Fair value of net assets 8.3 12.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition 28.6 70.0 36.9 82.7 2006 2006 m m Consideration: Cash paid 36.9 82.7 Deferred consideration Total consideration 36.9 82.7 The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value in respect of the acquisition of other businesses during 2006: As restated Acquirees Fair value carrying to Group amount 2006 2006 m m Intangible assets 16.8 2.4 Property, plant and equipment 1.6 5.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 1.7 Inventories 0.1 0.1 Trade receivables and other current assets 5.2 5.2 25.4 14.7 Trade payables and other current liabilities 20.0 16.1 Deferred tax liability 3.0 23.0 16.1 Fair value of net assets 2.4 Goodwill arising on acquisition 43.9 46.3 2006 m Consideration: Cash paid 38.6 Deferred consideration 7.7 Total consideration 46.3 119 30.
Acquisitions and disposals continued The total consideration paid and payable on acquisitions is shown below: 2006 m Consideration: Cash paid 158.2 Deferred consideration 7.7 Total consideration 165.9 As disclosed in Note 1, the acquisition accounting adjustments have been finalised in relation to certain acquisitions which were made in 2006.
The amounts disclosed above have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2007, the acquisitions made in 2007 have contributed 6.8m to the operating profit and 38.9m to revenue of the Group.
If the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, the acquisitions would have contributed 11.1m to the operating profit of the Group, and 61.9m to revenue.
The goodwill of 76.0m 2006: 142.5m recognised above relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured from the acquiree due to their nature.
These items include customer loyalty and a skilled workforce.
The aggregate cash flow effect of acquisitions was as follows: 2007 2006 m m Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 2.2 5.3 Net cash in entity previously equity accounted 1.6 Cash paid to acquire subsidiaries 78.0 158.2 Cash paid to acquire interests in associates and joint ventures 2.7 Deferred consideration on 2005 acquisitions 5.4 2.9 Deferred consideration on 2006 acquisitions 2.8 Net cash outflow on acquisitions 85.1 155.8 The Group paid 8.2m of deferred consideration during 2007 in relation to the 2005 acquisitions of ICMI, Tech Online, Light Reading Inc. and Black Hat and the 2006 acquisitions of US Newswire, Shorecliff Communications LLC and the 2007 Software conference.
Under terms of the relevant sale and purchase agreements, additional consideration was payable if certain revenue and profit targets were met.
The Group paid 2.9m of deferred consideration during 2006 in relation to the 2005 acquisitions of ICMI, Tech Online and Light Reading Inc.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions can be analysed as follows: As restated 2007 2006 m m Brands 13.3 22.2 Customer contracts and relationships 9.9 15.2 Subscription lists 0.6 Databases 1.4 11.5 Software 2.1 Total 26.7 49.5 Disposals On 10 April 2006, the Group completed the sale of its Culverhouse Cross site for a total consideration of 15.8m.
A profit of 4.3m arose on the sale, being the proceeds of disposal less the carrying value of the property and costs of disposal.
120 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 31.
Discontinued operations The 6.0m additional profit on prior years disposal represents additional consideration receivable from GfK following the settlement of certain outstanding items relating to the sale of NOP World in 2005, together with a release of amounts held for certain potential warranty and other claims which are now no longer required.
Earnings per Earnings of shares share m million p Earnings per share for discontinued operations Basic 6.0 254.0 2.4p Diluted 6.0 259.5 2.3p On 15 May 2006, the Group announced the sale of a portfolio of UK classified titles which were reported within CMP Information for an aggregate cash consideration of 16.7m.
After accruals for related costs of disposal a profit of 8.0m arose on the sale of these publications.
On 14 September 2006, the Group announced the sale of a portfolio of US entertainment titles which were reported within CMP Technology for an aggregate cash consideration of $51.3m.
After accruals for related costs of disposal a profit of 12.5m arose on the sale of these publications.
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated income statement were as follows: US UK classified entertainment titles titles Total 2006 2006 2006 m m m Revenue 5.1 14.7 19.8 Operating expenses 4.4 14.7 19.1 Profit before tax attributable to discontinued operations 0.7 0.7 Attributable taxation 0.2 0.2 Profit after tax attributable to discontinued operations 0.5 0.5 Profit from disposal of discontinued operations 8.0 12.5 20.5 Attributable tax expense Net profit attributable to discontinued operations 8.5 12.5 21.0 Weighted average no.
of Earnings per Earnings shares share m million p Earnings per share for discontinued operations Basic 21.0 278.7 7.5p Diluted 21.0 283.9 7.4p Included in operating expenses is employee costs of 7.0m, cost of inventories recognised as an expense of 2.3m, auditors remuneration of 0.1m and other cost of sales and administration costs of 9.7m.
US UK classified entertainment titles titles Total At date of At date of At date of disposal disposal disposal m m m Goodwill 3.3 3.3 6.6 Trade and other receivables 5.2 5.2 Inventories 3.0 3.0 3.3 11.5 14.8 Trade and other payables 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 Net assets attributable to discontinued operations 3.3 9.0 12.3 121 31.
Discontinued operations continued US UK classified entertainment titles titles Total At date of At date of At date of disposal disposal disposal m m m Net cash flows from operating activities 0.7 0.5 1.2 Net cash flows from investing activities Net cash flows from financing activities Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 0.7 0.5 1.2 32.
Commitments Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial property and machinery leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable property operating leases are as follows: Land and Land and buildings buildings 2007 2006 m m Within 1 year 28.1 27.8 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 67.4 79.1 Later than 5 years 29.2 40.5 124.7 147.4 The future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable other operating leases are as follows: Other Other 2007 2006 m m Within 1 year 0.2 0.2 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years Later than 5 years 0.2 0.2 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into commercial property leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2007 2006 m m Within 1 year 5.3 6.0 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 14.3 14.3 Later than 5 years 4.6 6.1 24.2 26.4 Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounts to 3.2m 2006: 2.0m.
122 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2007 33.
Contingent liabilities As previously disclosed, the Group is in dispute with HMRC with regards to a technical matter arising in relation to the sale of our Regional Newspapers business in 1998.
The tax in dispute is estimated at 80m.
The Groups appeal was heard at the High Court on 22 February 2007.
The decision of the High Court went against the Group and the Group lodged an appeal with the Court of Appeal.
The appeal was heard on 26 February 2008 and we are awaiting the outcome.
Whilst it is likely that the matter will not be resolved until 2009 it is possible that the matter could be resolved during the current year.
Due to the uncertainty of litigation the Group continues to make a prudent assessment of the potential liability in its accounts for this and other matters and has recognised the full amount of tax in dispute as a liability in current tax liabilities.
Principal subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of United Business Media plc and the principal subsidiaries listed on the table below.
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
The following information relates to those subsidiary undertakings the results or financial position of which, in the opinion of the directors, principally contribute to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage interest at and operation 31 December 2007 CMP Asia Limited Hong Kong 100 CMP Europe Limited Great Britain 100 CMP Information Limited Great Britain 100 CMPi Group Limited Great Britain 100 CMP Media, LLC USA 100 CMPMedica Asia Pte Limited Singapore 100 CNW Group Limited Canada 50 Commonwealth Business Media Inc USA 100 Expoconsult B. V. Netherlands 100 Light Reading, Inc. USA 100 Medizinische Medien Informations GmbH Germany 100 PR Newswire Association, Inc. USA 100 PR Newswire Europe Limited Great Britain 100 Socit dEditions Scientifiques et Culturelles SA France 100 United Business Media Finance, Inc. USA 100 United Business Media Group Limited Great Britain 100 United Business Media Jersey Limited Jersey 100 United Finance Limited Great Britain 100 VIDAL S. A. France 100 All companies stated as being incorporated in Great Britain are registered in England and Wales.
None of the above subsidiaries are held directly by the company, with the exception of United Business Media Jersey Limited.
Post balance sheet events On 3 January 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of Mass Event Labs for an initial cash consideration of $1.2m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $3.8m payable over the next four years.
On 23 January 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of Think Service, Inc for an initial cash consideration of $24.5m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $5.0m payable over the next year.
On 8 February 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of Exposure Events UK Limited, for an initial cash consideration of 0.6m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to 1.9m payable over the next two years.
On 21 February 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of Vision Events for a total cash consideration of $11.4m.
On 26 February 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of AeroStrategys aviation data business for an initial cash consideration of $0.9m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $1.2m payable over the next three years.
