Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial position of Ultra Bank interest cover ?????????????
29 times 2006: 22 times David Jeffcoat, Group Finance Director payable in 2008 based upon the operating performance of the Operating cash ow business up to June 2008.
Managements best current estimate of Ultra achieved good cash generation in 2007, despite a higher the additional amount that will be payable is $3.3m 1.7m and level of expenditure on xed assets and capitalised product the costs of acquisition were 0.1m, making a total consideration development costs than in the previous year.
Of this amount, 0.9m was represented by xed assets in the year, after capital expenditure, capitalised development costs and working capital, 9.2m by intangible assets such as patents and LTIP share purchases, was 52.2m 2006: 56.5m.
This meant and intellectual property and the remaining 5.5m by goodwill.
In that the ratio of cash to operating profit was 83%, still November the Group acquired Atkins & Partners Limited for a cash maintaining the rolling five-year average at more than 100%.
This total cost was Working capital levels rose by 6.0m 2006: 0.3m reduction in represented by 0.4m of cash, 0.1m of net current liabilities, cash terms with higher inventory the main reason.
Inventory levels 2.0m associated with intangibles arising on acquisition and 2.1m rose at Ultras tactical military radio business in Montreal, Canada, of goodwill.
There were no significant xed assets acquired.
and at the civil aviation equipment business in Greenford, UK, Another UK-based company, BCF Designs Limited, was bought in where production rates of newly introduced products will grow in November for a cash consideration of 12.5m before expenses of the first half of 2008.
It was encouraging to see trade receivables 0.1m.
This total has been apportioned as 1.3m worth of tangible fall by 6.1m, virtually cancelling out the 6.9m rise in 2006.
The xed assets and working capital, intangible assets worth 6.0m and most significant reductions were achieved by the HiPPAG airborne 5.3m of goodwill.
Finally a small Canadian business, Telemus Inc. compressor business in Gloucester, UK and by Sonar & was acquired in July for 0.3m, of which 0.1m was treated as Communication Systems in Greenford, UK.
Typically the intangible assets arising on acquisition will be remained virtually at, with an increase of just 0.3m, despite the amortised over a period of ten years.
The goodwill will not be growth in Ultras activity level.
The number of days payables amortised but will be subject to annual impairment reviews.
outstanding reduced slightly to 53, compared to 54 in 2006.
Amounts due to customers on long-term contracts continued the Product development cash expenditure of 5.5m was capitalised recent trend and recorded a fall of 4.6m 2006: 3.6m reecting during the year since it was regarded as creating intellectual the change in the prole of Ultras defence-related activities, which property that has a significant long-term commercial value.
The typically provide greater opportunities to achieve positive contract majority of this expenditure was incurred in developing electronic cash ows.
However the net amount owed remained positive once systems for the new Airbus A400M transport aircraft, which is not again at 3.1m 2006: 6.1m.
expected to go into production until 2010 at the earliest.
Ultra has rm production orders for 192 aircraft and for this reason has Capital expenditure at 8.6m was signicantly higher than in the confidence that the development expenditure can be recovered previous year, when spending on new xed assets was just 4.8m.
The Group also incurred The major investments in 2007 were made by Tactical significant development costs last year in carrying out work on two Communication Systems in Montreal, Canada, which moved to a other large new aircraft programmes, Boeings 787 and the F35 new larger location to accommodate future growth, and by Airport Joint Strike Fighter being developed by Lockheed Martin.
In neither Systems, which installed new systems at Glasgow and Dublin case have substantial production orders been received as yet and, Airports.
These systems are subject to five-year leases to the airport for this reason, all costs that were incurred in the year were written operators and, as such, remain as xed assets on the Groups off directly against profits.
Certain other development costs were balance sheet.
These related to minor products where there Acquisitions and intangible assets was a high degree of confidence in commercial benets accruing.
The Group made four acquisitions in the year.
Criticom Inc. was The typical amortisation period for capitalised development costs is bought in July for an initial cash consideration before expenses of between five and ten years, depending upon the expected commercial life of the products involved.
A further payment of up to $5.0m will be 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial position of Ultra Net debt at year-end 30 countries Ultra sells its systems, products and services in more than ?????????????
30 countries worldwide 14.2m 2006: 7.2m Interest and profit before tax Tax, earnings per share and dividends Financing costs, excluding losses on derivative financial instruments, The effective Group tax rate dropped to 27.1% 2006: 28.0% reduced by 0.9m to 2.9m during 2007.
The main reason for this reflecting the benefits of the tax treatment of recent acquisitions was a lower level of average borrowings during the year.
Ultra in the USA, together with an increase in the benefits of tax maintains cash on deposit in certain countries and the interest incentives for research and development expenditure in the UK.
income on these funds fell by 0.4m in the year.
Hence net bank Earnings per share, based on profit before amortisation of interest costs were reduced to 2.2m 2006: 2.7m They were intangible assets and the gain or loss on financial instruments, covered 29 times by operating profit.
A final dividend of 14.5p is proposed by the Directors, bringing the total dividend payout to profit before tax, amortisation of intangible assets and the gain or 21.2p 2006: 18.5p, an increase of 15%.
This dividend is covered loss on derivative financial instruments rose by 11% to 61.1m 3.1 times by earnings per share, which is consistent with the 2006: 54.9m.
The amortisation charge for intangibles arising on Group's long-term policy.
acquisition was 3.9m in the year, higher by 0.3m than in 2006 due to the inclusion of a charge for the acquisitions made during Financing 2007.
A loss of 0.6m was recorded on financial instruments Ultra generated 36.3m of free cash ow before dividends and during the year, which represents the notional loss that resulted acquisitions during 2007 2006: 40.9m.
After dividend payments from restating the value of these instruments at the foreign of 13.0m this left 23.3m for acquisitions.
There was acquisition exchange rates that applied at the beginning of the year to those at spending of 31.0m in the year which was therefore funded in part the end of the year.
This compares to a gain of 3.7m in 2006.
The by the Groups existing banking facilities.
As a result and, after a Groups UK and Canadian businesses hedge forward their US dollarnegative currency effect of 1.2m, net debt increased by 7.1m denominated sales revenues, typically over an 18 to 24 month to 14.2m at the end of the year.
The balance sheet therefore period.
The reason for the 2007 loss was that a number of foreign continues to be very strong and Ultra has substantial headroom on contracts with a high intrinsic value at the start of 2007 actually its facilities to make further acquisitions.
The cover was maintained but by The Groups banking facilities were set up in 2005 and are provided replacement contracts with a lower present value, since they would by a small syndicate of banks, led by The Royal Bank of Scotland.
give rise to a smaller hedging gain if they were to mature at the They involve up to 120m of revolving credit over a five-year exchange rates that applied at the end of the year.
This change in period, denominated in sterling, US dollars and Canadian dollars the value of open contracts gives rise to a loss in the marked to market value of the outstanding contracts as a whole.
It should be and are used for balance sheet and operational needs.
Both the sterling and US dollar elements fund day-to-day working capital emphasised that this notional reported loss will never be realised: requirements and the US and Canadian dollar borrowings also it is simply a timing effect.
The real worth of the hedging contracts to the Group is to x the value in local currency of foreign currency represent natural hedges against assets denominated in those currencies.
A further overdraft of 10m is also available for shortsales receipts in the future, thus reducing the uncertainty that term working capital funding.
would otherwise exist as to their realisable value.
The benefit can be seen within other operating income on the Income Statement Financial risk management interest rates which records 5.1m of exchange gains in the year 2006: 1.5m.
Much of the Groups current bank nancing has been taken on to This compensated for the fact that foreign currency-denominated fund acquisitions in North America.
Three year interest rate hedging revenues are recorded at spot exchange rates, which has the effect contracts were entered into in December 2005 with the objective of depressing gross margins when foreign currencies have of reducing the risk associated with debt at oating interest rates.
Overall there was an increase of 3% in statutory profit These cover $20m of US dollar borrowings and $30m of Canadian before tax to 56.6m 2006: 55.0m.
dollar debt and will both mature at the end of 2008.
These see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial position of Ultra 42% 67% transatlantic balance order book visibility the UK and North America each at the end of 2007 Ultra had 67% represented 42% of the Groups rm order cover for 2008 consensus 2007 revenue forecast sales of 439m amounts effectively cover gross dollar borrowings of an equivalent and governance is undertaken by the pension trustees on behalf of amount that were in place at the end of the year.
The trustees include both company-nominated and 25.3m out of total bank borrowings of 41.6m was at xed employee-elected representatives.
Ultra supports the trustees in a interest rates.
The remaining 16.3m of debt, comprising sterlingnumber of ways including the provision of training to the Trustee denominated borrowings, was at a oating rate of 6.2%.
The Certicate of Essential Pensions Knowledge standard which is effective overall interest rate for the total gross debt at year-end assessed independently by the Pensions Management Institute.
was 5.4%, broadly in line with the prevailing oating rates.
All staff that have joined Ultra in the UK since the dened benefit scheme was closed in 2003 have been invited to become members Pensions of the Ultra Electronics Group Personal Pension Plan.
Under the Ultra offers company-funded retirement benefits to all its terms of this dened contribution scheme, employee payments are employees.
A substantial number of staff in the UK participate in supplemented by contributions from the company.
the Ultra Electronics Limited defined benefit scheme, which was Certain employees at Tactical Communication Systems in Canada closed to new entrants in 2003.
The scheme was actuarially participate in a dened benefit scheme.
This scheme is closed to assessed using the projected unit method at 31 December 2007, new employees and had an IAS19 surplus of 0.3m at the end of when the net scheme deficit calculated in accordance with IAS19 2007.
Regular payments into the scheme are continuing with the was 29.4m at the 2007 year-end, up from 24.6m in 2006.
The objective of maintaining a satisfactory funding position.
The present value of the liabilities increased by 12.5m in the year Groups remaining Canadian employees participate in a number of due mainly to a more conservative assumption for the mortality of dened contribution pension plans.
The assumed life expectancy was between three and four years longer than was assumed in the previous In the US, Ultra offers a dened contribution 401 k retirement valuation.
With some compensation from an increase of 6.7m in benefit plan to all full-time employees.
Under this plan, Ultra the fair value of the scheme assets and a small increase in the provides participating and contributing employees with matching related tax asset, the net deficit rose by 4.8m overall.
The contributions, subject to plan and US Internal Revenue Service scheme is relatively immature, with just 21% of the members limitations.
Criticom, which became part of Ultra during 2007, will already retired, remains strongly cash positive and has benefited consolidate its existing separate plan into the Ultra scheme during in recent years from an investment strategy that was biased 2008.
Wells Fargo provides administrative support and is also a towards equities rather than bonds.
directed trustee of the plan.
There was a full actuarial assessment carried out in April 2007 and the result was a funding deficit relating to past service of 31.1m before tax, assuming an annual discount rate for future liabilities of 5.5%.
Following the completion of the assessment the employer has reached agreement with the pension scheme Trustee Board to eliminate the deficit by making annual payments of 0.25m per annum over a ten-year period commencing 2008.
Certain company assets with an agreed value of approximately 10m will be offered as security against the deficit until such time as it has been eliminated or alternative arrangements are agreed.
The funding position will be reassessed after the next full valuation has been carried out in 2010.
The scheme has a statement of investment principles, which includes a specic declaration on socially responsible investment: this is delegated to the investment managers.
Pension management 24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
