AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements IFRS Notes to the financial statements IFRS 1 Corporate information AVEVA Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 72.
AVEVA Group plcs shares are publicly traded on the Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange.
2 Basis of preparation The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The comparative amounts for the South Korean severance pay provision of 294,000 as described in note 25 c has been reclassied from provisions to retirement obligations because the Directors believe that this best reects the nature of the arrangements.
There is no impact on the Groups profits or net assets.
The Group presents adjusted profit before tax on the face of the Consolidated income statement disclosing those material items of operating income and expense which materially impact the underlying performance of the business.
The Directors believe that adjusted profit before tax allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods in assessing trends in financial performance.
a Statement of compliance The Consolidated financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and all its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and are included at pages 65 to 68. b Basis of consolidation The Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 March each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using existing GAAP for each country of operation.
Adjustments are made to translate any differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
Inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
3 significant accounting estimates The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: a Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash ows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash ows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2007 was 15,062,000 2006 16,612,000. b Dened benefit pension schemes The determination of the Groups obligations and expense for dened benefit pensions is dependent on the selection, by the Board of Directors, of assumptions used by the pension scheme actuary in calculating these amounts.
The assumptions applied are described in note 25 and include, amongst others, the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, rates of increase in salaries and mortality rates.
While the Directors consider that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in the actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the amount of the Groups future pension obligations, actuarial gains and losses included in the Statement of recognised income and expense in future years and the future staff costs.
The carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations at 31 March 2007 was 4,943,000 2006 4,155,000.
4 Summary of significant accounting policies a Revenue Revenues comprise fees in respect of initial and extension licences, annual licences, and rentals, together with income from consultancy and other related services excluding VAT and similar taxes.
For each revenue stream, no revenue is recognised unless and until: I a clear contractual arrangement can be evidenced: I delivery has been made in accordance with that contract: I if required, contractual acceptance criteria have been met: and I the fee has been agreed and collectability is probable.
