AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements IFRS Notes to the financial statements IFRS continued 22 Obligations under leases The Group uses finance leases to acquire computer equipment and certain other assets.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases are as follows: 2007 2006 000 000 Future minimum payments due: Not later than one year 151 157 After one year but not more than five years 128 278 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods 15 33 264 402 The present value of minimum lease payments is analysed as follows: Not later than one year 136 137 After one year but not more than five years 128 265 264 402 At 31 March 2007 the Group had the following future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2007 2006 Land and Plant and Land and Plant and buildings machinery buildings machinery 000 000 000 000 Not later than one year 707 203 1,144 332 After one but not more than five years 1,328 552 2,115 305 2,035 755 3,259 637 The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of equipment.
These leases have a duration of between one and 5 years.
Certain property leases contain an option for renewal.
23 Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments comprise cash and short-term deposits, bank overdrafts, finance leases and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group also enters into forward currency contracts to manage currency risks arising from the Groups operations.
It is, and has been, throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing such risks on a regular basis as summarised below: a Interest rate and liquidity risks The Group holds net funds, and hence its interest rate risk and liquidity risk are associated with short-term cash deposits.
The Groups overall objective with respect to holding these deposits is to maintain a balance between accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return.
In practice this has meant that no deposits have been made with a maturity date greater than 3 months in the course of the year.
b Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk arises from the Group undertaking a significant number of foreign currency transactions in the course of operations.
As a result the value of the Groups non-Sterling revenue, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash ows can be affected signicantly by movements in exchange rates and in US Dollar and Euro rates in particular.
Where such transactions are material, the Board has a policy of entering into foreign currency contracts or currency matching to help manage currency risk.
The Group has investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to currency translation risk.
There is currently no requirement for borrowings and therefore this risk is not managed through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
Gains and losses arising from these structural currency exposures are recognised in the Consolidated statement of total recognised income and expense.
c Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the Balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identied loss event, which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash ows.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers.
The exposure to credit risk is mitigated where necessary by either letters of credit or payments in advance.
Counterparties for cash deposits are limited to financial institutions which have a high credit rating.
