AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements IFRS Notes to the financial statements IFRS 1 Corporate information AVEVA Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 72.
AVEVA Group plcs shares are publicly traded on the Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange.
2 Basis of preparation The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The comparative amounts for the South Korean severance pay provision of 294,000 as described in note 25 c has been reclassied from provisions to retirement obligations because the Directors believe that this best reects the nature of the arrangements.
There is no impact on the Groups profits or net assets.
The Group presents adjusted profit before tax on the face of the Consolidated income statement disclosing those material items of operating income and expense which materially impact the underlying performance of the business.
The Directors believe that adjusted profit before tax allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods in assessing trends in financial performance.
a Statement of compliance The Consolidated financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and all its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and are included at pages 65 to 68. b Basis of consolidation The Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 March each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using existing GAAP for each country of operation.
Adjustments are made to translate any differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
Inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
3 significant accounting estimates The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: a Impairment of goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash ows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash ows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2007 was 15,062,000 2006 16,612,000. b Dened benefit pension schemes The determination of the Groups obligations and expense for dened benefit pensions is dependent on the selection, by the Board of Directors, of assumptions used by the pension scheme actuary in calculating these amounts.
The assumptions applied are described in note 25 and include, amongst others, the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets, rates of increase in salaries and mortality rates.
While the Directors consider that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in the actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the amount of the Groups future pension obligations, actuarial gains and losses included in the Statement of recognised income and expense in future years and the future staff costs.
The carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations at 31 March 2007 was 4,943,000 2006 4,155,000.
4 Summary of significant accounting policies a Revenue Revenues comprise fees in respect of initial and extension licences, annual licences, and rentals, together with income from consultancy and other related services excluding VAT and similar taxes.
For each revenue stream, no revenue is recognised unless and until: I a clear contractual arrangement can be evidenced: I delivery has been made in accordance with that contract: I if required, contractual acceptance criteria have been met: and I the fee has been agreed and collectability is probable.
indd 18 07 06 2007 13:54:27 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements IFRS Users can pay an initial licence fee upon installation for a set number of users together with an obligatory annual fee.
Additional users can be licenced at any time on payment of an extension fee similar to the initial and annual fees.
The fees cover right to use and post contract support, which includes core product enhancements and remote support services.
The fees related to the right to use are recognised once the above conditions have been met.
Post contract support fees are recognised rateably over the period of the contract.
As an alternative to the initial extension licence plus annual fee model, the Group also supplies its software under two different types of rental contract.
Rentals which are invoiced monthly and which are cancellable by the customer are recognised on a monthly basis.
Other rental contracts are invoiced at the start of the contracted period, are non-cancellable and consist of two separate components, the right to use and the right for post contract support.
Revenue in respect of the right to use is recognised once the above conditions have been met and revenue for post contract support is recognised rateably over the period of the contract.
The Group also licenses its software using a token licensing model.
Under this model, a basket of tokens representing licences to use the software over a dened period is granted, which enables the customer to draw these down as and when required.
Where the customer commits in advance to a specified number of tokens over a dened period, a proportion of revenue is recognised with an appropriate element deferred for post contract support obligations, subject to the above recognition conditions being met.
Where the customer is charged in arrears, revenue is recognised based on actual number of tokens used.
The revenue and profit of development contracts is recognised on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably.
The stage of contract completion is usually determined by reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated costs.
Only costs that reect the services performed to date and to be performed are included in costs incurred to date and the estimate of total costs.
When the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised to the extent that costs can be recovered otherwise costs are expensed as incurred.
Income from consultancy and other related services is recognised as the services are provided.
b Foreign currencies The functional and presentational currency of AVEVA Group plc is pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the Balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the initial transaction.
The subsidiaries have a number of different functional currencies.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the Balance sheet date, and their Income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
Prior to 31 March 2004, cumulative exchange differences were reported as part of retained earnings.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 and is not required to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date.
In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 April 2004 and all subsequent disposals shall exclude any translation differences arising prior to the date of transition and the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
c Goodwill Goodwill which arose on acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 1998, and earlier periods, was written off to reserves in accordance with the UK GAAP accounting standard then in force.
As permitted by FRS 10 which replaced the previous standard, the goodwill previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated in the Balance sheet.
For acquisitions arising between 31 March 1998 and 31 March 2004, goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities acquired, was capitalised under UK GAAP and written off on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life.
The Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business Combinations retrospectively to business combinations that took place before 1 April 2004.
As a result, the carrying amount of goodwill in the opening IFRS Balance sheet is that recorded under UK GAAP at 1 April 2004 date of transition.
Goodwill on acquisitions after 1 April 2004 is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill already carried in the Balance sheet is not amortised after 1 April 2004.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
If the potential benefit of tax losses or other deferred tax assets did not satisfy the criteria in IFRS 3 for separate recognition when a business combination is initially accounted for but is subsequently realised, the Group recognises the deferred tax income in the Income statement.
In addition, the Group also reduces the carrying value of the related goodwill by the amount that would have been recognised if the deferred tax asset had been recognised as an identiable asset from the acquisition date with a corresponding entry to administrative expenses.
indd 19 07 06 2007 13:54:28 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements IFRS Notes to the financial statements IFRS continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued d Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and from a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied to each class of intangible assets as set out below.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the asset which are as follows: Tribon developed technology 5 years Realitywave developed technology 12 years Tribon customer relationships 20 years Other software 3 years Purchased software rights 5 10 years e Research expenditure Research expenditure is written off in the year of expenditure.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down the assets to their estimated residual value over the useful economic life of the asset as follows: Computer equipment 3 years Fixtures, ttings and ofce equipment 6 8 years Motor vehicles 4 years Assets held under finance leases and leasehold improvements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease or useful economic life if shorter.
Borrowing costs related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are not capitalised.
g Impairment of assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies and represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and generates cash ows which are independent of other cash generating units.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstance indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
h Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have thirty to ninety day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identied.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the Balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these approximates their fair value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
j Derivative financial instruments The only derivative financial instruments the Group holds are forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting during the year and therefore all forward foreign exchange contracts have been marked-to-market and are held at fair value on the Balance sheet with any movements being recorded in the Income statement.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the Income statement, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reected in the Groups Consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the Income statement.
indd 20 07 06 2007 13:54:28 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements IFRS k Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benets of ownership of the asset are classied as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
l Taxation Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the Balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: I except where the deferred income tax liability arises from goodwill amortisation or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and I in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: I except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and I in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each Balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the Income statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales taxes except: I where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and I receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales taxes included.
The net amount of sales taxes recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance sheet.
m Post retirement benets The Group operates dened benefit pension schemes in the UK, Sweden and Germany.
The Group also provides certain post employment benets to its South Korean employees.
The UK dened benefit pension scheme, previously available to all UK employees, was closed to new applicants in 2002.
UK employees are now offered membership of a dened contribution scheme.
The German unfunded dened benefit scheme is closed to new applicants and provides benets to five deferred members following an acquisition in 1992 by Tribon.
No current employees participate in the scheme.
Full provision has been made for the liability on the Balance sheet.
The Group also operates a dened benefit pension scheme for one German employee.
The Group provides pension arrangements to its Swedish employees through an industry-wide dened benefit scheme.
It is not possible to identify the share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the scheme which is attributable to the Company on a fair and reasonable basis.
Therefore the Group has applied the provisions in IAS 19 to account for the scheme as if it was a dened contribution scheme.
indd 21 07 06 2007 13:54:28 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements IFRS Notes to the financial statements IFRS continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued m Post retirement benets continued For the dened benefit schemes, the dened benefit obligation is calculated annually for each plan by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method which attributes entitlement to benets to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of dened benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
The retirement benefit liability in the Balance sheet represents the present value of the dened benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality bonds as reduced by the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
The current service cost is recognised in the Income statement as an employee benefit expense.
The interest element of the dened benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benets paid during the year.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognised in the Income statement as finance revenue and finance expense respectively.
A past service credit is recognised immediately to the extent that benets are already vested, or is otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments or changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in the Statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates dened contribution pension schemes for a number of UK and non-UK employees.
Contributions to dened contribution plans are charged to profit before tax as they become payable.
n Share-based payments The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested on or before 1 January 2005.
Other equity-settled awards which are out of the scope of IFRS, have continued to be accounted for under UK GAAP.
Under IFRS, the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a model based on Monte Carlo principles, further details of which are given in note 26.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of AVEVA Group plc market conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fullled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the Directors of the Group at that date, are based on the best available estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modied, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modied.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modication, as measured at the date of modication.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modication of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benets will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain the expense relating to any provision is presented in the Income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
