AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Financial statements UK GAAP Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Corporate information AVEVA Group plc the Company is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
2 Accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies have all been applied consistently throughout the current and the preceding year.
a Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and law.
As permitted by Financial Reporting Standard No.
1 Revised, Cash ow statements, the Company has not included a Cash ow statement as part of its financial statements because the Consolidated financial statements of the Group of which the Company is a member include a Cash ow statement and are publicly available.
b Taxation Current tax including UK Corporation tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when xed assets are re-valued unless by the Balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the re-valued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale has been recognised in the financial statements.
Neither is deferred tax recognised when xed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in the future has been entered into by the subsidiary or associate.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
c Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at actual exchange rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
d Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
3 profit for the year As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year.
AVEVA Group plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 of 20,021,000 2006 4,056,000.
Audit fees are borne by another Group company.
The Company does not have any employees 2006 nil.
Directors emoluments are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 29 to 33.
4 Dividends 2007 2006 Declared and paid during the year 000 000 Interim 2006 7 dividend paid of 1.24p 2005 6 0.73p per ordinary share 835 490 Final 2005 6 dividend paid of 1.73p 2004 5 1.43p per ordinary share 1,157 952 1,992 1,442 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Final 2006 7 proposed dividend of 2.94p 2005 6 1.73p per ordinary share 1,980 1,157 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2007 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The dividend per share amounts have been restated in prior periods to reect the 3 for 1 share reorganisation which was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2006.
