Shareholder information continued Index Accounting policies 1, 27-28, 72-76 Innovation 20-22 Acquisitions 24, 73, 113 Intangible assets 27-28, 73, 86-87 Advertising and promotion 28 Intellectual property 10 Internal and disclosure controls 66 Americas, The 16-18, 77-79 Annual General Meetings 39, 142 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1, 72 Asia Africa 18-19, 77-79 Inventories 74, 91 Associates 90, 120 Joint ventures 90, 120 Key management 120 Audit Committee 37, 62 Auditors 62, 67-68, 121, 127, 132 Key performance indicators 6-7 Balance sheet 25, 70 Laws and regulation 10 Biographical details 46-47 Leases 75, 112 Legal proceedings 10-12 Biological assets 90 Board committees 37-38 Market capitalisation 25 Board remuneration 49-61 Net debt 32 Boards 33 Nomination Committee 37, 48 Non-Executive Directors 36, 46, 59-60 Brands 8-9, 21 Capital expenditure 78, 80, 88-89 Non-GAAP measures 29, 32 Cash 74, 93 Off-balance sheet arrangements 26 Cash ow 26, 71, 116 Operating costs 81 Operating profit 77-80 Categories 8-9 Chairman 3, 35 Operating Review 15-22 Commitments 112 Payables 102 Company accounts, statutory and other information 127-136 Pensions and similar obligations 27, 28, 74, 103-107 Competition 8 Personal care 8, 79-80 Contingent liabilities 112 Post balance sheet events 27, 121 Corporate governance 33-47 Preference shares and dividends 94, 142 Corporate responsibility 12 Principal group companies 125-126 Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 38, 63 Property, plant and equipment 10, 73, 88-89 Deferred tax 28, 91 Provisions 28, 75, 102 Depreciation 78, 90-91 Receivables 92 Directors responsibilities 66 Regions 7, 15-19 Discontinued operations 114-115 Related party transactions 8, 120 Disposals 24, 113-114 Remuneration Committee 37, 49-61 Distribution 8 Research and development 20-21 Diversity 9-10 Reserves 110 Dividends 25, 86, 141, 142 Restructuring 81, 102 Earnings per share 41, 69, 85 Retained profit 111 Employees 9 Return on invested capital ROIC 29, 31 Equalisation Agreement 40-41 Revenue recognition 75 Equity 108 Risk management 13-14, 62, 97 Europe 15-16, 77-79 Savoury, dressings and spreads 8, 79-80 Exchange rates 1, 23, 72, 124 Seasonality 8 Executive Directors 35-36, 46, 51-58 Segment information 75, 77-80 Exports 8 Share-based payments 75, 117-119 Finance and liquidity 26 Share capital 41-42, 109 Finance costs and income 82 Shareholders 38-40, 137-138 Financial calendar 142 Share prices 140 Financial instruments 28, 73-74, 97-101 Share registration 143 Financial liabilities 74, 94-96 Staff costs 82 Financial record 122-124 Statement of recognised income and expense 69 Financial Review 23-32 Strategy 6 Foods 8, 20-22 Taxation 76, 83-84 Functions 8 Total shareholder return TSR 29, 32 Goodwill 27-28, 73, 86-87 Treasury 26-27 Gross profit 81 Turnover 77-80 Group Chief Executive 4-5, 35 Unilever Executive UEx 47 Group structure 1 Unilever Foodsolutions 9 Home and Personal Care 8, 20-22 Underlying sales growth USG 29, 32 Home care 8, 79-80 Ungeared free cash ow UFCF 29, 30 Ice cream and beverages 8, 79-80 Ventures 9 Impairment 86-87 Voting 39 Income statement 69 Website 143 Information technology 10 144 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Cautionary statement This document may contain forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends or the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future performance or results, including financial objectives to 2010, and their negatives, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and assumptions regarding anticipated developments and other factors affecting the Group.
They are not historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including, among others, competitive pricing and activities, consumption levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and supply chain sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability to integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, the ability to complete planned restructuring activities, physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current estimates, legislative, scal and regulatory developments, political, economic and social conditions in the geographic markets where the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards.
Further details of potential risks and uncertainties affecting the Group are described in the Groups lings with the London Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report and Accounts on Form 20-F.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document.
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forwardlooking statements contained herein to reect any change in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document does not comply with US GAAP and should not therefore be relied upon by readers as such.
The Groups Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2007 is separately led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and is available on our corporate website www.
com In addition, a printed copy of the Annual Report on Form 20-F is available, free of charge, upon request to Unilever PLC, Investor Relations Department, Unilever House, 100 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0DY, United Kingdom.
Designed and produced by Unilever Communications in conjunction with Addison Corporate Marketing Typeset by Paufey, London Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001: 2004, FSC certied and CarbonNeutral This document is printed on Greencoat Plus Velvet which has been independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Greencoat Plus Velvet contains 80% recycled bre.
The manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard.
In recognition of its recycled content Greencoat Plus Velvet has also been awarded the NAPM recycled mark.
This document is completely recyclable.
If you have nished with it and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste, thank you.
Unilever N. V. Weena 455, PO Box 760 3000 DK Rotterdam The Netherlands T 31 0 10 217 4000 F 31 0 10 217 4798 Commercial Register Rotterdam Number: 24051830 Unilever PLC Unilever House 100 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0DY United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7822 5252 F 44 0 20 7822 5951 Unilever PLC registered office Unilever PLC Port Sunlight Wirral Merseyside CH62 4ZD United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales Company Number: 41424 www.
com Disclaimer Notes to the Annual Review 2007 This PDF version of the Unilever Annual Review 2007 is an exact copy of the document provided to Unilevers shareholders.
It is a short form document that contains extracts and summaries only of the information given in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 the Full Report.
The Full Report should be referred to for a fuller understanding of the results and state of affairs of Unilever The Summary Financial Statement in the Unilever Annual Review 2007 has been examined by our auditors.
The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website are the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclaimer Except where you are a shareholder, this material is provided for information purposes only and is not, in particular, intended to confer any legal rights on you.
This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to invest in Unilever shares.
Any decisions you make in reliance on this information are solely your responsibility.
The information is given as of the dates specified, is not updated, and any forward-looking statements are made subject to the reservations specified on page 37 of this Annual Review.
Unilever accepts no responsibility for any information on other websites that may be accessed from this site by hyperlinks.
Annual Review 2007 Growing as One Adding Vitality to life Who we are Growing as One Unilever made good progress in 2007.
Our underlying growth was 5.5% the third consecutive year of accelerating sales growth.
These results are a tribute to our success in implementing our strategy.
We made big strides in each of our key priority areas the fast-growing markets of Asia, Africa and Latin America: growth in personal care: and a higher proportion of our sales coming from Vitality products.
The success of our One Unilever programme, the introduction of more multi-country organisations and other changes to our operating model have streamlined the business, simplified decision making and made Unilever a leaner, fitter, more responsive company.
Who we are Chairmans statement 01 | Highlights of the year 06 | A message from Michael Treschow 01 | Financial highlights 02 | Global highlights 02 | Regional highlights 03 | Key facts 04 | Our global brands Highlights of the year 1 2 3 Financial highlights Turnover million million Underlying sales 2007 40 187 2007 27 416 growth of 5.5% 2006 39 642 2006 27 028 Operating margin of 1 13.1%, with an underlying Underlying sales growth % improvement of 2007 5.5 0.2 percentage points 2006 3.8 Earnings per share from continuing 1 2 3 Operating pro t operations up 12% million million 2007 5 245 2007 3 578 Total regular dividends 2006 5 408 2006 3 687 to rise by 7% 1 Operating margin % 2007 13.1 2006 13.6 3 4 Dividends pence 1 per Ordinary 0.16 share of NV per Ordinary 3 9p share of PLC 2007 0.75 2007 51.11 2006 0.70 2006 47.66 1 From continuing operations.
2 Sterling translated for convenience only.
3 For $ conversions, see the Summary Financial Statement on pages 25 and 26.
4 In addition, a one-off dividend of 0.26 per Ordinary NV share and 17.66p per Ordinary PLC share was paid in December 2006.
How we performed Governance and Shareholder financial statements information 08 | Group Chief Executives review 1 2 | Global review 22 | Board of Directors 36 | Contact details 1 6 | Regional performance: Europe 24 | Summary Financial Statement 37 | Financial calendar and addresses 1 8 | Regional performance: The Americas 28 | Corporate governance 20 | Regional performance: Asia Africa 31 | Summary remuneration report Important note The two parent companies, Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever PLC PLC, together with their group companies, operate effectively as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
This Annual Review therefore deals with the operations and the results of the Unilever Group as a whole.
The Unilever Annual Review which contains the Summary Financial Statement and Annual Report and Accounts are produced in Dutch and English.
Forward-looking statements This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information.
These statements are forward-looking statements including within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
For a description of factors that could affect future results, reference should be made to the full Cautionary statement on page 37.
Unilever Annual Review 2007 1 Who we are Highlights of the year continued Global highlights Regional highlights Widespread growth across regions and categories Key driver is strategic focus on developing and emerging markets, personal care and Vitality Increasing contribution from price in response to rising commodity costs Strong cost savings programmes delivering 1 billion in the year Substantial progress made with portfolio development and accelerated restructuring Named International Supplier of the Year by Tesco for the second year running Wal-Marts 2007 Supplier of the The Americas Year for Sustainable Engagement Turnover of 13 442 million 33% of Group Underlying sales growth of 4.1% Operating profit of 1 971 million Operating margin of 14.7% Sustained good performance in the US Increased momentum in Brazil and Mexico Our One Unilever programme simplified operations across the region 2 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Europe Key facts Turnover of 15 205 million 38% of Group Underlying sales growth of 2.8% Operating profit of 1 678 million 1 74 000 Operating margin of 11.0% employees at the end of 2007 Marked improvement in Western Europe Outstanding performance in Russia Improved growth in all major countries including UK, 21 Germany, Italy and the Netherlands nationalities among our top level group of 113 managers ar ound 100 countries in which we operate o ver 81 000 employees given access to the webenabled Learning Management System in the first year 8 9m contributed to communities around the world in 2007 9 y ears as foods producers sector leader of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 8 68m spent on R&D worldwide Asia Africa 1 Turnover of 11 540 million 29% of Group over 3 Underlying sales growth of 11.1% reduction in CO emissions from 2 Operating profit of 1 596 million energy per tonne of product produced Operating margin of 13.8% over 1995-2006 Strong growth reflecting vibrant markets and priority placed on building business in this region All major developing and emerging businesses growing strongly Continued good progress in China Unilever Annual Review 2007 3 Who we are Our global brands Our strong portfolio of foods, home and personal care brands is trusted by consumers the world over.
Among them, the top 25 brands account for over 70% of our sales.
Savoury, dressings and spreads Ice cream and beverages Turnover of 13 988 million Turnover of 7 600 million Underlying sales growth of 5.0% Underlying sales growth of 4.2% Knorr Lipton Hellmanns Heartbrand ice creams Magnum Blue Band Slim Fast Becel Flora Bertolli Some of our brands may be marketed under alternative names in certain countries.
4 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Our 1 billion global brands Becel Flora Hellmanns Omo Blue Band Knorr Rexona Dove Lipton Sunsilk Heartbrand ice creams Lux Surf Personal care Home care Turnover of 11 302 million Turnover of 7 297 million Underlying sales growth of 6.7% Underlying sales growth of 6.1% Lux Surf Sunsilk Omo Persil Dove Radiant Rin Rexona Comfort Axe Cif Ponds Domestos Vaseline Sunlight Lifebuoy Signal Unilever Annual Review 2007 5 Chairmans statement A message from Michael Treschow Michael Treschow Chairman Michael Treschow became the first independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Boards of Unilever in May 2007.
When I joined Unilever in May 2007 I was aware that the Unilever Executive led by Patrick Cescau was driving a process of sweeping change aimed at transforming the Our mission Group.
Since then I have visited a number of Unilever operations in Asia and Europe.
I have met with many employees and learned a great deal about the brands which Unilevers mission is the Group sells and the technology which underpins them.
I have also spoken to investors to get their perceptions of the business.
All of these encounters have con rmed the preconceptions which I had before joining We meet everyday the Group: Unilever is a business with an extraordinary portfolio of brands, talented people, deep roots in developing and emerging markets, a strong commitment to needs for nutrition, sustainability and a distinctive corporate culture.
hygiene and personal The Groups strong performance in 2007, with higher growth and an improvement in underlying margin, is something about which the entire business can feel proud.
care with brands that It is also further validation that the strategy being pursued by Patrick and his team is the right one, and that this strategy is being executed very effectively.
help people feel good, This strategy with its sharp focus on Vitality products, developing markets and look good and get faster growing product areas like personal care has dramatically changed the business.
The structure is much leaner and simpler.
It is enabling Unilever to maximise its more out of life.
considerable advantages of buying, manufacturing and marketing scale.
Some of the restructuring which has taken place has led to a reduction in employee numbers.
Decisions which have an impact on employees lives and livelihoods are never taken lightly.
However, I have been impressed and reassured by the caring and responsible way in which the Group has executed these changes.
The Boards in 2007 Corporate governance in Unilever has undergone radical change in the period since 2004.
We continue to ensure that we meet the highest standards in all the markets in which we operate.
The composition of the Boards themselves has also evolved.
We have enriched their diversity and experience with three new Non-Executive Directors: Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu and Genevieve Berger.
6 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Kenya Narayana, co-founder and Chairman of Infosys Technologies Limited, brings a deep knowledge of emerging markets and expertise in IT as well as impressive business It was with great sadness that we learned leadership skills.
Hixonia is a highly experienced Non-Executive Director with Sasol Ltd. in January 2008 of the deaths of nine She is also an Advisory Board Member of JP Morgan South Africa and brings first-hand of our employees on the Unilever tea experience of African markets.
Genevieve contributes her impressive expertise in research plantation in Kericho.
All of them were and development: she is Professor of Biophysics and Medical Imaging at Paris University VI victims of the violence which followed and Chairman of the Advisory Board Health for the EU Commission for Research.
All three joined our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee when they took I have been heartened by the Groups up their posts in May.
Their appointment to this committee, now chaired by Lord Brittan, response to the tragedy.
It made a signals its growing importance and the Groups commitment to keeping sustainability at donation of $1 million to the World Food the heart of its activities.
Programme to assist with food aid in the country at large.
In parallel the Lipton and Each of the newcomers was given an extensive programme of induction covering key issues PG Tips brands, which source much of facing the business.
their tea from Kenya, made available funds to help both the bereaved and the In September 2007 we also welcomed Jim Lawrence as our new Chief Financial Of cer: many other employees who lost their he will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the AGMs in May 2008. homes and possessions in the troubles.
Jim, who came from General Mills, is a Non-Executive Director of British Airways and Avnet.
He replaced Rudy Markham who retired in 2007 after a distinguished career spanning four decades.
Whilst welcoming Jim, we will be saying goodbye to two Directors who are leaving.
Kees van der Graaf after 32 years service in the business, most recently as President, Europe and Ralph Kugler, currently President, Home and Personal Care, who has served the business for 29 years.
On behalf of the Boards I thank them both for the signi cant I am proud that we contribution they have made to our business throughout their careers.
have Boards that are During the year, we also said goodbye to Jean-Cyril Spinetta who stepped down as a member of the Boards and the Remuneration Committee.
I would like to acknowledge properly equipped to his wise counsel and experience during his term as a Non-Executive Director.
give Patrick and his In our Board meetings, we have discussed a wide range of topics including the Groups annual plan, performance in key markets such as Russia and China, organisation and team all the support talent, and the role of science and technology.
We also reviewed and fully agreed the Unilever strategy and the new plans to accelerate change, including portfolio change that they need.
An important part of my role is consistently to evaluate the effectiveness of the Boards.
In 2007 our Senior Independent Director and I conducted a formal assessment, including performance-related interviews with each Board member.
The findings were discussed by the Boards and will result in further improvements.
I am proud that we have Boards that are properly equipped to give Patrick and his team all the support that they need.
On a personal note, I nd this an exciting time to work for Unilever.
The business is doing well and, with its wealth of talented people, its great global brands and its ambitious business plans, is on track to do even better.
On behalf of the Boards, I would like to thank all the Groups employees around the world for all that they have done in 2007.
I look forward to serving the Unilever Group to the very best of my ability in the years ahead.
Michael Treschow Chairman Unilever Annual Review 2007 7 How we performed Group Chief Executives review Patrick Cescau Group Chief Executive 2007 was a good year for Unilever.
We have grown consistently, achieving our best underlying sales growth in a decade.
Despite a challenging cost environment, we also delivered an increase in underlying operating margin.
I am pleased to report on a good year for Unilever one in which we continued to grow competitively, consistently and pro tably.
With a clear growth strategy and an organisational structure to support it, there is growing evidence of improved momentum in our business.
In 2007 underlying sales grew by 5.5% the third consecutive year of accelerating sales growth.
At the same time, we achieved an underlying improvement in our operating margin, despite sharply rising commodity costs.
Our growth was broad-based, across With a clear growth all our major regions and categories.
strategy and an In Europe we achieved growth of nearly 3% up from 1% the year before.
The bene ts of all the structural changes we have made in this region over the past three years are now organisational coming through both in terms of growth and underlying margin.
structure to support Russia was the star performer with growth in the high teens but all our major European businesses grew in 2007. it, there is growing In the Americas full year growth was 4%.
Brazil and Mexico showed an improving evidence of improved performance during the year, while the US grew solidly at 3%.
momentum in In Asia Africa we recorded 11% growth.
The performance re ects not just the vibrancy of these markets but also the high priority which we place on building our business in this part our business.
Once again, India and China were important contributors to our success.
The picture was equally strong across our categories, driven by some great innovations.
8 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Growth at a glance A strategy A leaner, Expanding for growth fitter business D&E markets Our strategy of focusing resources on The One Unilever programme underpins Our unparalleled footprint in the brands, categories and countries with our growth creating a leaner, more developing world helps fuel our growth.
the highest potential has delivered resilient and exible organisation, which We draw on our knowledge of local three consecutive years of accelerating is better placed than ever before to meet consumers to create health, hygiene sales growth.
challenges and respond to opportunities.
and nutrition products which meet the needs of fast-growing populations.
In 2007 we focused Home care had a strong year, fuelled by an excellent performance from our laundry business where the Dirt is Good brands strengthened still further on the back of innovations like on bigger innovations Persil Small & Mighty.
We also had great success in household care with innovative new variants of brands like Cif and Domestos.
and rolled them Our Foods category also did very well.
Our largest brand Knorr came close to 4 billion out faster around in sales.
Lipton tea prospered from a series of good innovations and so too did ice cream.
Unilever Foodsolutions, our global food service business, also turned in another good the world.
performance, con rming the important opportunity that out-of-home consumption offers us.
An endorsement of our strategy These results are testimony to the fact that our strategy of focusing resources on brands, categories and countries with the highest growth and pro t potential is working.
One key area is developing and emerging D&E markets.
Over the next few years consumer spending in these markets will overtake developed countries in terms of purchasing power parity.
Unilever has an unparalleled footprint in the developing world, as well as an extensive knowledge of local consumers and a proven ability to deliver health, hygiene and nutrition products which meet the needs of populations which are growing in size, wealth and aspiration.
Personal care another strategic priority saw continued strong growth, at nearly 7%.
It continues to be our fastest-growing business, with strong global brands like Dove, Ponds, Lux and Rexona.
Our Vitality mission to help people feel good, look good and get more out of life remains central to our strategy, inspiring products such as a very low fat variant of Hellmanns mayonnaise: Amaze snacks, with nutrients to help support the mental development of school-aged children: Lipton Linea slimming teas: and the Dove proage range with bene ts for mature women.
Of course, our brands must be constantly refreshed to retain their edge.
In 2007, across each of our major categories, growth was driven by a combination of innovation new products and new mixes and renovation the strengthening of existing brands through new variants, new packaging or new marketing.
com annualreview questions Unilever Annual Review 2007 9 How we performed Group Chief Executives review continued Shakti Unilever Executive The Unilever Executive UEx is responsible for the performance of the Group, guided Reaching the worlds One in eight people on the planet live by the Group Chief Executive.
Hindustan Unilevers 1 Sandy Ogg newest consumers Shakti Entrepreneur Programme Chief HR Of cer helps women in rural India set up 2 Patrick Cescau small businesses as direct-to-consumer Group Chief Executive retailers.
The scheme equips women 3 James Lawrence with business skills and a way out of Chief Financial Of cer poverty as well as creating a crucial new 4 Ralph Kugler distribution channel for Unilever products President Home and Personal Care in the large and fast-growing global 5 Harish Manwani market of low-spending consumers.
President Asia Africa By 2010 the Shakti network aims to 6 Kees van der Graaf have reached 600 million consumers.
President Europe 7 Vindi Banga President Foods 8 Michael Polk President Americas During the year In 2007 we focused on bigger innovations and rolled them out faster around the world.
Clear, a shampoo with superior anti-dandruff active delivery technology, was launched we made significant simultaneously in several countries, including three of the biggest hair care markets in the world China, Russia and Brazil.
We also achieved a better transfer of mixes across progress in reshaping continents and cultures, in some cases creating new markets.
For example, we successfully launched our male deodorant brand Axe in Japan.
After just six months it is the leader in the organisation its market.
to create a leaner, A leaner, tter business During the year we made signi cant progress in reshaping the organisation to create more flexible a leaner, more exible business structure.
Our One Unilever operating model is being implemented in every major country.
We are now taking this a step further with the creation of new multi-country organisations clusters of neighbouring countries with one central management structure, leveraging regional scale through shared services for functions such as HR, IT and Finance.
These changes are all part of our accelerated programme of restructuring announced last summer.
We further shaped our portfolio through disposals and acquisitions, including the announced sale of Boursin and Lawrys brands that offered limited growth potential for Unilever.
We also announced agreements to acquire the Buavita vitality drinks brand in Indonesia and only recently Inmarko, the leading ice cream business in Russia.
These transactions accelerate our strategy of building leadership positions in fast-growing markets.
This is the right strategy for Unilever but like any strategy it is only as good as the execution.
That is why we also continue to build our strengths in critical areas such as consumer marketing and customer development.
In both cases our progress was recognised externally.
In marketing, we received a clutch of awards at the Cannes International Advertising Festival, with Dove and Axe achieving three Grand Prix trophies.
In customer development, Unilever was named International Supplier of the Year by Tesco for the second year running.
We are also raising our game in research and development R&D, recognising the crucial role technology can play in the quality of our innovations.
Underlining the importance of R&D, we appointed our first Chief Technology Of cer, Neal Matheson, in 2007.
Neal leads the development of world class capabilities in science and technology and champions excellence in all our innovation activity.
Of course, some changes required dif cult decisions.
In Europe, the restructuring is leading to signi cant job losses.
But painful as these decisions have been, they are the right ones for the long-term health of the business.
10 Unilever Annual Review 2007 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Keeping sustainability at the heart of Unilever We believe Unilever can only continue to thrive if we conduct our business in a sustainable manner.
Integrating social, economic and environmental considerations therefore sits at the heart of many of our brand strategies.
A great demonstration of this was the decision to source all of our tea from sustainable, ethical sources.
To support this signi cant change, we asked the Rainforest Alliance to start auditing our tea suppliers with immediate effect.
The aim is to have all Lipton Yellow Label and PG Tips tea bags sold in Western Europe certi ed by 2010 and all Lipton tea bags sold globally by 2015.
We also set the ambitious target of a further 25% reduction in the businesss CO emissions 2 from energy sources used in production by 2012.
And we continued to develop our partnerships with key retail customers, sharing our sustainability expertise to support them in achieving their goals.
Wal-Mart responded by naming us 2007 Supplier of the Accelerating Year for Sustainable Engagement.
transformation The year ahead Our One Unilever programme is already streamlining Notwithstanding some economic uncertainty and the rising costs of many materials, we the business by creating single operating companies are con dent that Unilever can grow consistently, pro tably and competitively in 2008. for each country and outsourcing parts of our IT, HR and Finance functions.
In 2007 we announced plans to accelerate our change programme further The changes we have made in recent years leave Unilever more resilient and better placed than by developing more multi-country organisations ever before to meet challenges and respond to opportunities.
We have a more exible, MCOs clusters of countries with a single centralised dynamic structure, an increasingly powerful brand portfolio, an unparalleled footprint in the management and shared functions.
MCOs reduce duplication and free up resources to focus on customers developing world, and in 2008 we have another exciting programme of innovations and and consumers.
All regions announced or continued new product launches.
Furthermore, we operate in sectors less susceptible than others to the to implement MCOs in the year.
The newly announced effects of an economic downturn: people will always need to eat, wash and clean their homes.
MCOs include Benelux: Germany, Austria and Switzerland: UK Ireland: and Central Africa.
For all these reasons we remain optimistic about the year ahead and con dent of making further progress towards our longer-term financial objectives.
On a personal note I would like to thank two members of the Unilever Executive who will leave us in 2008 Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler.
They have been valued colleagues over many years and I thank them for their contribution.
Indeed, I would thank the whole of my Executive team, including two great additions during the year, Mike Polk and Jim Lawrence, the latter joining from outside as our new Chief Financial Of cer.
Thanks also to my colleagues on the Boards, under our new Chairman, Michael Treschow, and especially to every one of our employees around the world for their invaluable contribution to the businesss progress in 2007.
Working together, as One Unilever, I am con dent that we can look forward to delivering continued success in 2008.
Unilever Annual Review 2007 11 How we performed Global review Our products are Growing chosen by consumers 1 60 million times every brands globally day.
On sale in over 1 50 countries around the world, they meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care.
Our brands are household names in many Landmark pledge on sustainable tea countries around the world.
Unilever took a historic step in 2007 when it committed to buying all its tea from sustainable, ethical sources transforming the tea industry and improving the crops, We create products that appeal to peoples income and livelihood of 2 million people across three different preferences, based on our deep continents.
Lipton, the worlds largest tea brand, and PG Tips, one of the UKs leading brands, became the first to carry understanding of consumers varied habits the Rainforest Alliance logo, showing they meet the and lifestyles.
independent organisations strict sustainability criteria covering areas such as wildlife protection, water conservation and fair treatment of workers.
The first Food and nutrition certi ed tea was supplied to restaurants and the catering We aim to provide foods which both taste trade in Europe: all Lipton tea bags sold globally are great and are good for you, and, in so expected to be certi ed by 2015. doing, become the worlds leading food and nutrition business.
on the web To ful l our goal, we are systematically www.
com lipton improving the nutritional pro le of our product range through our Nutrition Enhancement Programme.
By the end We focus on three key areas of consumer Health, hygiene and beauty of 2007 we had assessed the nutritional bene t when developing new products: The desire to be clean and healthy and composition of all our products totalling functional foods, lighter options, and to look good is universal.
Our home over 22 000 recipes and removed a naturalness and authenticity.
For example, and personal care brands have promoted further 2 750 tonnes of saturated fat, in 2007 we developed Promise Activ health, hygiene and beauty since the th 170 tonnes of salt and 5 000 tonnes of SuperShots, a Vitality shot with added late 19 century and continue to play sugar.
This is in addition to the substantial natural plant sterols, ingredients that are a vital role in millions of homes around reductions already made by 2006. clinically proven to help actively remove the world today.
cholesterol as part of a diet low in We are also committed to ensuring that saturated fat and cholesterol.
In 2007 our household cleaning business consumers are able to make informed had a particularly successful year, with choices when buying our products.
As well Meanwhile, Hellmanns Extra Light uses brands such as Cif and Domestos helping as listing nutritional information on the citrus bre to create a great tasting, very it grow by 9%.
From simple soap bars back of packaging, we are implementing low fat mayonnaise.
Because of its low to the most technically advanced the Choices programme, with a front-offat content the product has a higher concentrated liquids, our laundry brands pack stamp that identi es products which margin particularly valuable at a time are also growing fast.
meet internationally accepted dietary advice.
of increasing edible oil costs.
In 2007 we continued rolling the programme In skin care, the Ponds brand went from out globally together with other food Lipton Green Tea in the US, Lipton Linea strength to strength in South East Asia, companies, under the auspices of the slimming teas in Europe, and Lipton Milk China and India, powered in part by Choices International Foundation.
This was Tea in Asia all ourished by exploiting the launch of a new anti-ageing range.
launched during 2007 and is advised by an teas credentials as a healthy beverage.
Vaseline was our fastest-growing global independent scienti c committee.
The And a new range of restaurant-quality skin brand, with underlying sales growth stamp can now be found on products in frozen meals from Bertolli, which are of more than 8%.
Vaseline Cocoa Butter more than 50 countries around the world.
packed with fresh vegetables and ready range was its most successful launch See www.
org for to eat in minutes, was a hit with North in the US in ten years.
The brand also more information.
announced the Vaseline Skin Fund, which is expected to launch in the UK and the US in 2008 and give 1 million people better access to information about managing skin complaints.
Senior Executive Seminar The Senior Executive Seminar, our pioneering leadership development programme, was led this year by leading business academic C K Prahalad.
The event brought together 28 of our top leaders to examine key business issues, with a particularly strong external focus.
They concentrated on developing and emerging markets, visiting more than 50 companies and 20 NGOs to gain insights into global trends and practices for opening up opportunities at the bottom of the economic pyramid.
The groups findings have been shared with the Unilever Executive and on the web Board of Directors, and are helping to shape further our approach in these markets.
com Unilever Annual Review 2007 13 How we performed Global review continued We have also developed a breakthrough Our new Brand Imprint Our deodorant brands also made good progress in 2007, with Axe and Rexona technology that includes the use of Ice both achieving double-digit growth.
Structuring Proteins ISP in ice cream.
programme enables Rexona is the worlds leading deodorant This enables a wide range of ice cream brand and Axe holds a leading position innovations, including signi cantly brands to integrate in male deodorants see box, page 21. healthier options and better quality ice cream.
Ice creams that contain ISP social, economic are available in a number of countries Oral Care returned to growth in Europe while continuing its robust performance in the Americas and Asia Africa regions.
and environmental in Indonesia, China and Africa aided For Europe, regulatory approval is by innovations such as a combined being sought under the EC Novel drivers into their Foods Regulation.
During the year we announced the extension development plans.
of our partnership with the FDI World In the kitchen, new Sunlight hand Dental Federation, which represents dishwashing liquid keeps working on the more than 1 million dentists, and we sponge for longer because it turns to gel Another signi cant step was taken by work together with the FDI in oral health on contact with water.
Its ultra-concentrated our ice cream brand Ben & Jerrys, which promotion and education programmes.
formula uses less water in the production announced plans to invest 2.4 million process and less packaging.
It is being over the five years 2007 to 2012 in Science and technology rolled out in eight countries.
And the reducing its impact on climate change We are proud of our reputation as a environmentally friendly lightweight design through initiatives covering every stage world leader in research and development.
and fast-drying formulation of our new of its European production process.
roll-on deodorant, launched under the In 2007 we achieved growth across our categories both through innovation new Rexona, Axe and Dove brands, also proved During the year we reviewed our products and new mixes and through popular with consumers.
sustainability strategies for agriculture renovation the strengthening of existing from which about two-thirds of our raw brands with new variants, packaging This year also saw the simultaneous materials come, packaging, water and or advertising.
launch in a number of countries of Clear greenhouse gases.
Many of our major retail anti-dandruff shampoo with superior customers are focusing on sustainability anti-dandruff active delivery technology and, by sharing our expertise in this area, We strive to bring innovations to market more swiftly than ever before.
Its formulation is we are able to strengthen our relationships the completion of a major reorganisation based on one common chassis with with them and grow our business.
of our research and development R&D add-on re nements for different scalp and hair types.
For example, the consumer and environactivities, we have concentrated R&D in global and regional centres in order to mental bene ts of our concentrated make the very best use of our resources Corporate responsibility laundry detergent, all Small & Mighty, and create centres which are innovation and sustainability were promoted by Wal-Mart, helping the powerhouses.
We are also increasingly We aim to manage and grow our business brand grow sales in the US to $140 million working on fewer, larger scale projects, in a responsible and sustainable way.
Small & Mighty, which uses less having carefully chosen those that we water, less packaging and less fuel for Our new Brand Imprint programme transport, has now launched in Europe think will deliver the most value to the business either in terms of product sales enables brands to integrate social, across the brand portfolio, for example or margin improvements.
economic and environmental drivers into Persil, Surf and Omo.
The success of their development plans.
An early example our ongoing partnership with Wal-Mart of Brand Imprints potential is our decision led the worlds largest retailer to name Recent developments include Amaze Brainfood a range of nutritious snacks to source all our tea sustainably and us 2007 Supplier of the Year for and drinks that are speci cally designed work with the Rainforest Alliance to Sustainable Engagement.
to support mental development in achieve certi cation for our tea estates children.
The 2006 launch was the result see box, page 13. of a 40 million, four-year R&D project.
Already selling well in Turkey, Amaze is expected to launch in India in 2008.
Global Diversity Board Our leaders make diversity a top business priority.
Signalling this commitment, the Global Diversity Board draws together 15 leaders from all business functions and is chaired by Group Chief Executive Patrick Cescau.
The board focuses on driving the diversity agenda into our business processes and tracking the progress of diversity initiatives.
It also champions new ways of working to boost employees personal vitality.
14 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Brands with missions Clear thinking goes global Our brands have the power to change One of our top priorities in 2007 was the simultaneous launch of Clear anti-dandruff shampoo in a number of peoples lives for the better.
countries China, Russia, Brazil three of the biggest hair care markets in the world, the Philippines, Pakistan, The second-biggest preventable killer Egypt and Arabia.
The brand has an innovative formula with superior anti-dandruff active delivery technology of children in the world is diarrhoea, and is our first major Asian hair brand mix to go global.
and yet simple hand-washing with soap Its success shows the power of a centralised, consistent can cut diarrhoeal diseases signi cantly.
global approach to packaging, formulation and marketing.
Clear shampoo is now winning consumer preference in all In 2007, in partnership with UNICEF, its markets and there are plans to consolidate growth we piloted an education programme for while continuing its global roll-out in 2008. schoolchildren in Uganda highlighting the importance of hand-washing with soap, underpinned by our soap brand Lifebuoy.
Coupled with this, the Unilever on the web Marketing Academy helped develop www.
pk clear health promotion campaigns in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.
During the year the brand grew by 9%.
Meanwhile, a major healthy eating campaign, Knorr Eat Colour, encouraged Throughout the year, our Goodness consumers to eat colourful vegetables, of Margarine campaign spread the with the help of a range of new colourmessage in Europe that margarine themed products.
The campaign was based contains essential fats and vitamins on the insight that vegetables bright helpful in maintaining a healthy heart.
hues indicate the presence of different The results were excellent and the bene cial antioxidants.
campaign is rolling out further in 2008.
The Dove Campaign for Real Beauty made The Family Goodness spreads brand strides in its mission to raise the self-esteem is raising funds as part of our threeof women.
By the end of 2008 the Dove year partnership with the World Food Self-Esteem Fund aims to have reached Programme WFP to provide nutritious 1 million young girls in 20 countries through school meals for children living in partnerships with organisations such as poverty.
We are also sharing our the Eating Disorders Association and Girl nutrition and hygiene expertise Scouts of America.
Sales of Dove products and helping WFP develop a school are growing rapidly.
education campaign as well as review the need for forti ed foods.
Our Dirt is Good positioning which is used across countries on our main brands including Persil, Omo and Skip is also ourishing.
It promotes childrens learning and development through physical activity while the brands innovative formulations mean parents dont need to worry about getting their childrens clothes clean after outdoor play.
Putting safety first We regard safety as an essential element of a successful and sustainable business and take seriously our responsibility to provide a safe workplace.
We aim to improve continuously the health, safety and well-being of everyone working for or on behalf of Unilever to a standard on a par with the very best of our peers.
A key measure of our progress in this area is our total recordable accident frequency rate, which counts all workplace accidents except those requiring only simple first aid treatment.
In 2007 this decreased to 0.26 accidents per 100 000 hours worked, declining from on the web 0.46 in 2004. www.
com Unilever Annual Review 2007 15 How we performed Regional performance: Europe A relentless focus Nowhere is the pace on better in-market execution, rejuvenation of change greater of the quality and value of our core products, and new innovations.
Growth Magnum tempts No hiding place European consumers for toilet germs The region sustained its improving trend Magnum Temptation ice European consumers in 2007 with underlying sales growth cream offered European were given a powerful of 2.8% for the year.
The improvement consumers the ultimate new weapon in the ght was driven by relentless focus on better indulgence: a sensual shape against limescale and containing Madagascan germs, with the launch in-market execution, rejuvenation of the vanilla ice cream, caramel of Domestos Zero Limescale quality and value of our core products, sauce and almond pieces, bleach.
Its development and an introduction of new innovations.
wrapped in Belgian dark was inspired by research chocolate.
It has the highest showing that many more Consumer demand in our categories was quantity of added extras germs are present in toilets steady throughout the year.
ever contained in a Magnum, with limescale because thanks to new technology germs cluster there, which involves bringing protecting themselves Overall we saw improving trends almost together two mould halves from being washed away.
Russia was the outstanding around the stick.
Launched Its three-times-thicker performer, but all major countries grew in in Italy, Spain, Switzerland formulation helps Domestos and Portugal, Magnum Zero Limescale bleach stick the year, including the UK, Germany, Italy Temptation is the first to and destroy limescale, and the Netherlands.
In France sales were expression of the brands even on vertical surfaces.
slightly up in a challenging market.
Pro tability on the web on the web The operating margin, at 11.0% for www.
com domestos the year, re ects a higher net charge for restructuring, disposals and one-off items compared with 2006.
Before Innovation Highlights Europe these items, the operating margin We continued to target innovations at current rates of exchange showed an underlying improvement mainly at Vitality opportunities.
In ice million 2007 2006 Change of 0.9 percentage points, driven by cream, we introduced Frus frozen yoghurt Turnover 15 205 15 000 1.4% lower overheads as a result of the One with wholegrain cereals and real fruit Operating profit 1 678 1 903 11.9 % Unilever programme and reduced pieces and low calorie Solero smoothies.
Operating margin 11.0% 12.7% advertising and promotions costs.
Lipton Linea slimming teas were launched in France, Switzerland and Portugal.
million 2007 2006 Change Accelerating change Growth in Hellmanns was boosted by Turnover 10 373 10 227 1.4% We made substantial progress with new extra light mayonnaise with citrus Operating profit 1 145 1 298 11.8 % portfolio development and restructuring.
$ million 2007 2006 Change At the start of 2008 we completed the The new Dove proage range of products is Turnover 20 740 18 810 10.3% expansion of the successful international building well in Europe as well as elsewhere, Operating profit 2 289 2 387 4.1 % partnership for Lipton ready-to-drink tea and Dove Summer Glow self-tanning and with PepsiCo to include all countries in body lotions are now available in most Europe.
We also completed the sale of countries.
Clear anti-dandruff shampoo at constant 2006 rates of exchange Change Boursin, and announced the acquisition was launched in Russia, with good consumer of the leading Russian ice cream response.
Small & Mighty concentrated Turnover 1.3% company Inmarko.
liquid laundry detergents were launched Underlying sales 2.8% in seven European countries.
Operating profit 11.7 % We formed four new multi-country organisations and announced the streamlining or closure of ten factories.
The roll-out of a single SAP system across the region continues with two-thirds of turnover in the region now on stream and full implementation expected to be largely completed by the end of 2008.
Developing people in innovative ways We aim to offer our people stimulating ways to broaden their skills and experience while at the same time giving something back to the community.
Salvatore Lucia, a Supply Chain Manager from Italy, was one of the Unilever specialists seconded to the World Food Programme WFP as part of their professional development.
He is helping WFP Ghana deliver its school feeding and nutrition programme on the web and learning valuable skills to bring back to the business.
com Unilever Annual Review 2007 17 How we performed Regional performance: The Americas One Unilever is A solid performance simplifying operations.
In 2007 Argentina, in a tough market Mexico and Brazil moved to single head offices: the US will follow in 2008.
Growth Guilt-free mayonnaise Dove proage woos fabulous fty-somethings Underlying sales grew by 4.1% in the Mayonnaise lovers in Latin America responded The newly launched year, with an increasing contribution from enthusiastically to a Dove pro age range proved pricing which was up 2.6% for the year.
campaign highlighting popular among women the health bene ts of aged 50 and over in North Hellmanns Light, a variant America and Europe.
In the US, overall consumer demand held of global leader Hellmanns.
The multimedia campaign, up well in our categories.
Market growth The campaign, aired in shot by top celebrity in home care and personal care slowed Argentina, Chile and Brazil, photographer Annie made consumers aware Leibovitz, featured somewhat in the second half year, but this that three spoonfuls of middle-aged women was compensated for by robust demand Hellmanns Light mayonnaise looking natural, gorgeous in foods.
Our own sales in the US grew contain the same calories and completely naked.
as one spoonful of olive oil.
The pro age range doesnt solidly, up 3.2% for the year, despite lower Underlying sales growth make unrealistic anti-ageing sales of ice cream.
for the year was outstanding, promises, but instead particularly in Argentina meets the speci c hair and Brazil.
and skin care needs of Our business in Mexico made good older consumers.
progress in the second half of the year and Brazil showed an improved performance in the fourth quarter.
Argentina, Andina and Central America performed well on the web on the web throughout.
com dove Pro tability The operating margin, at 14.7% for the seasonings, while the sale process of Highlights The Americas year, was 1.1 percentage points lower the North American laundry business at current rates of exchange than the previous year.
Before the impact is under way.
million 2007 2006 Change of restructuring, disposals and one-off Turnover 13 442 13 779 2.4 % items, the margin was 0.4 percentage Innovation Operating profit 1 971 2 178 9.5 % points lower than last year.
This was New varieties of Knorr bouillons and Operating margin 14.7% 15.8% due to an increase in advertising and soups in Latin America further advanced promotions and the impact of substantial the brands Vitality credentials.
Hellmanns million 2007 2006 Change cost increases, which have not yet been real campaign highlights its simple Turnover 9 170 9 395 2.4 % fully offset by price increases and ingredients which are naturally rich Operating profit 1 344 1 484 9.4 % savings programmes.
in Omega 3, in both the US and Latin America.
In the US, we introduced Promise $ million 2007 2006 Change Accelerating change Activ SuperShots, a Vitality shot with Turnover 18 334 17 279 6.1% The One Unilever programme is simplifying added natural plant sterols, ingredients Operating profit 2 689 2 731 1.5 % operations throughout the region.
that are clinically proven to help actively Argentina, Mexico and Brazil all moved remove cholesterol as part of a diet low to single head of ces in 2007, while the in saturated fat and cholesterol.
at constant 2006 rates of exchange Change US will follow in early 2008.
Sales force integration is under way in a number of Innovation in personal care re ected the Turnover 3.5% countries.
A single SAP system has been more global approach.
Clear anti-dandruff Underlying sales 4.1% implemented in the US, with Latin America shampoo was successfully launched in Operating profit 3.4 % already on one system.
Brazil, while the Dove pro age range of skin care, deodorants and shampoos was We set up a joint venture with Perdigo to introduced in the US at the same time develop our heart-health margarine Becel as in Europe.
In laundry, the Dirt is Good in Brazil and disposed of our local Brazilian platform continued to build across Latin margarine brands.
We also announced an America, now including a variant with agreement for the disposal of Lawrys built-in fabric softener.
New ways of working We are committed to nding fresh ways of working that improve business effectiveness, enhance work-life balance and bene t the environment.
We created four Telepresence video-conferencing rooms: in Englewood Cliffs, Rotterdam, London and Singapore.
Telepresence uses high-fide nition video screens with life-size images around a single virtual table, to replicate as closely as possible a face-to-face meeting.
It is also the first technology of its kind to be certi ed by the CarbonNeutral on the web Company.
A further eight rooms will be added in 2008. www.
com Unilever Annual Review 2007 19 How we performed Regional performance: Asia Africa Bringing the power Strong growth in of our branding, innovation and all major markets execution to bear in some of the fastest-growing consumer markets in the world.
Growth Soup solution causes Axe Lynx scores in Japan a stir in China The strong underlying growth of 11.1% Axe Lynx, the worlds In Chinese households soup second-largest deodorant for the year re ects both the vibrancy of is part of many peoples brand, made a triumphant these markets and the high priority we daily diet.
Knorr Bouillon entry into the Japanese place on building our business in the region.
Gel, launched in China market and quickly became under the Knorr Dense the countrys top-selling It includes a healthy balance of volume and Soup Treasure name, male deodorant.
The launch price, up by over 7% and 3% respectively.
captured the imagination of followed an extensive study consumers eager to replicate of the young Japanese the nutritional bene ts of male, examining his attitude Growth was consistent throughout the year home-boiled soup without towards dating, use of and was broad-based across categories and the hassle.
Made with highdeodorants and purchasing countries, including established markets quality fresh ingredients, habits.
The brands range the gel reverts to densewas given a substantial such as India, Indonesia, the Philippines, textured soup when stirred makeover in 2007 to South Africa and Turkey, which all grew into boiling water, into ensure packaging and in double digits: signi cant product areas which consumers can add formulations are consistent their own choice of fresh the world over.
such as laundry and personal wash: and vegetables.
emerging product areas like ice cream and deodorants.
China remains a key priority and grew strongly for the third consecutive year.
com axe We drove growth across all income levels, from highly affordable packs to premium positions.
This was supported regional platform, while the reorganisation Highlights Asia Africa by new brands and products that of our shareholdings in South Africa and at current rates of exchange leveraged our global platforms and Israel facilitates the new organisation.
million 2007 2006 Change excellent in-market execution.
Turnover 11 540 10 863 6.2% Innovation Operating profit 1 596 1 327 20.2% Pro tability The new, more global, approach to Operating margin 13.8% 12.2% The operating margin, at 13.8%, was innovation was evident in the 2007 1.6 percentage points higher than last year.
Clear anti-dandruff shampoo million 2007 2006 Change This included the 214 million accounting was launched in China, Arabia, Egypt, Turnover 7 873 7 406 6.3% pro t resulting from the reorganisation of Pakistan and the Philippines.
In Japan, Operating profit 1 089 905 20.3% our shareholdings in South Africa.
Before we launched the Axe brand and Dove the effects of this transaction, disposals proage skin care products.
An improved $ million 2007 2006 Change and restructuring charges, the operating range of Dove shower products was Turnover 15 741 13 622 15.6% margin showed an underlying increase of extended to North East Asia, while Operating profit 2 177 1 665 30.8% 0.2 percentage points.
The improvement Lifebuoy soap was launched in South was driven by volume growth, pricing Africa and a new variant brought to India.
actions and savings programmes which In laundry, the new Dirt is Good product, at constant 2006 rates of exchange Change more than offset higher input costs and packaging and communication were increased advertising and promotions.
Turnover 10.6% Underlying sales 11.1% Accelerating change The Moo range of ice creams was extended Operating profit 27.6% We announced the acquisition of the throughout the region.
Knorr seasonings Buavita brand of fruit-based vitality drinks were rejuvenated with premium ingredients, in Indonesia, which was completed early as in Europe, and in China we launched a in January 2008. new form of Knorr bouillons for preparing thick soups.
At the same time new, more As part of the One Unilever programme we affordable, tubs and sachets are attracting now have a single SAP system in place in new users of spreads in several countries.
four countries as the basis for a common Standards of Leadership Our Standards of Leadership programme is a set of behaviours aimed at ensuring that every manager takes personal responsibility for delivering Unilevers agenda through excellence in strategy execution.
During the year, the framework was rolled out globally to an enthusiastic response.
In Asia the process was particularly effective, with managers across 15 countries attending interactive workshops.
Individuals made personal commitments to live the behaviours and to model them in their on the web daily working lives.
com Unilever Annual Review 2007 21 Governance and financial statements Board of Directors 614 11 3 2 15 5 12 10 9 13 1 7 6 Chairman Executive Directors 5.
Ralph Kugler President Home and Personal Care 1,2 1.
Group Chief Executive Home and Personal Care since April 2005.
Previous posts include: Non-Executive Director, ABB Group.
President Home and Personal Care Europe Board member, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Previous posts include: Chairman, Unilever 2001. Business Group President, Latin Foundation.
Chairman, AB Electrolux PLC and Vice-Chairman, Unilever N. V. America 1999.
Chairman, Unilever Thai 1997-2007 and Confederation of Swedish 2004-2005.
President, include: Non-Executive Director, Vice-Chairman Lipton USA 1997-1998.
President and CEO, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE Chairman, Indonesia 1991-1995.
Appointed appointments include: Non-Executive Chief Financial Of cer 2000.
Member of the Appointed Chief Financial Of cer International Advisory Council, FITCH, 4.
Kees van der Graaf 1 September 2007.
Member of the International President Europe include: Non-Executive Director, British Advisory Board, Dana Gas Corporation.
President Airways Plc and Avnet, Inc.
Previous Senior Advisor, Morgan Stanley Europe since April 2005.
Joined Unilever posts include: various senior positions International.
Group Chief Executive, BP p. l. c. Previous posts include: Foods Director including Vice Chairman 2006-2007, 1992-1995 and Chairman 1995-1997.
2004, Business Group President, Ice Cream Executive Vice  and Frozen Foods 2001.
Executive Vice- 2000-2006 and Chief Financial Of cer President, Foods and Beverages Europe 1998-2007, Executive Vice President and 1998.
Senior Vice-President, Global Ice CFO, Northwest Airlines 1996-1998, Cream category 1995.
External President and CEO, Pepsi-Cola International appointments include: Board member, Asia, Middle East, Africa 1992-1996, and ECR Ef cient Consumer Response.
Member, Supervisory Boards of ANWB Club Algemene Nederlandse Wielrijdersbond and ANWB B. V. 22 Unilever Annual Review 2007 8 4 8 6 Non-Executive Directors 9.
Professor at Delft University of Appointed 2007.
Chairman, Supervisory Boards Barloworld Ltd, JP Morgan SA, Sasol Ltd 2007.
Professor, Medical University of Tele Atlas N. V. Zesko Holding B. V. and Tongaat-Hulett Group Ltd.
Member, and Chairman, Advisory Board of Spencer Banking Enquiry Panel, South African Technical Committee, Institute of Stuart Netherlands.
Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE.
Director, Aviva plc, LogicaCMG plc and 9 Chairman, Advisory Board, Health for the Stage Entertainment B. V. Chairman and 14.
Director, Biotech CEO, Koninklijke PTT Nederland KPN Nationality: Dutch.
Appointed and Agri-Food Department 1998-2000 1988-1998 and Koninklijke KPN N. V. Royal 2006.
Chairman, Executive Board AEGON and Director of Technology 2000, the Dutch Telecom 1998-2000.
Chairman, Supervisory French Ministry for Education.
Board KLM Royal Dutch Airlines N. V. General, National Centre for Scienti c Board member and Chairman of Audit 8 Research CNRS, France 2000-2003.
Charles Golden Committee, InBev S. A.
Appointed and Audit Committee member, Baxter 8.
The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of 2006.
Executive Vice-President, Chief International, Inc.
Member, Supervisory 7 Spennithorne QC, DL Financial Of cer and Director, Eli Lilly and Board, Pon Holdings B. V. Member, Nationality: British.
Non-Executive Supervisory Board, AEGON N. V. 2000.
Vice-Chairman, UBS Investment Director, Clarian Health Partners, Hillenbrand 1,2 Bank and Chairman, UBS Limited.
Director, Industries, Inc. and Eaton Corporation.
Jeroen van der Veer UBS Securities Company Limited.
Member, Member of Finance Committee, Nationality: Dutch.
Appointed International Advisory Committee of Total.
Chief Executive, Royal Dutch Shell Member, European Commission and plc.
Former Member, Supervisory Board of 8 Vice-President 1989-1999.
Byron Grote fide Nederlandsche Bank N. V. 2000-2004.
Home Secretary Nationality: American British.
1983-1985 and Secretary of State for Appointed 2006.
Chief Financial Of cer, Trade and Industry 1985-1986.
Chairman, Asia Business Council, 1 Member Nomination Committee 2 Member Remuneration Committee Indian Institute of Information Technology 3 Chairman Nomination Committee and Infosys Technologies Limited.
Director, 4 Chairman Remuneration Committee DBS Bank, DBS Group Holdings, Infosys 5 Senior Independent Director Consulting, Inc. Infosys Technologies 6 Member Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 7 Chairman Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee China Company Limited, New Delhi 8 Member Audit Committee Television Ltd. 9 Chairman Audit Committee James Lawrence will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2008 AGMs Unilever Annual Review 2007 23 Governance and financial statements Summary Financial Statement This Summary Financial Statement is a summary of information contained in Unilevers financial statements, Report of the Directors and the Report of the Remuneration Committee as set out in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
This statement does not contain suf cient information to allow as full The consolidated accounts are prepared under the historical cost an understanding of the results and state of affairs of Unilever, and convention unless otherwise indicated in the Accounting information of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration, and policies as set out in note 1 to the Annual Report and Accounts.
as would be provided by the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Due to the operational and contractual arrangements in place Copies of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007, between NV and PLC, they form a single reporting entity for the which are produced in both English and Dutch, can be accessed purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the directly or ordered through www.
com investorcentre accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC Shareholders may also elect to receive the Annual Report and as their respective consolidated accounts.
Accounts for all future years by request to the appropriate share registrars.
Further details are provided on page 36.
Dividends The Boards have resolved to recommend to the Annual General The auditors have issued unquali ed audit reports on the full Meetings on 14 May and 15 May 2008 the declaration of final accounts and the auditable part of the Report of the Remuneration dividends on the ordinary capital of PLC and of NV respectively Committee.
The United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 requires in respect of 2007 at the rates shown in the tables below.
the auditors to report if the accounting records are not properly kept or if the required information and explanations are The dividend information given below, including the comparative not received.
They are also required to report whether the amounts for 2006, is expressed in terms of the nominal share values information in the Report of the Directors is consistent with which have applied since 22 May 2006 following the split of NV the audited consolidated accounts.
Their reports on the full shares and the consolidation of PLC shares which were approved financial statements and the auditable part of the Report of at the 2006 AGMs.
the Remuneration Committee contain no such statements.
IFRS requires that dividends approved after the balance sheet date The following Summary Financial Statement should be read are not re ected in the financial statements for the current reporting together with the narrative set out earlier in this Annual Review period.
As a result, the final 2006 dividends are re ected in the which includes, to the extent applicable, any important future financial statements for 2007, and the proposed final 2007 dividends, developments or post-balance sheet events.
if approved by shareholders at the AGMs, will be re ected in the financial statements for 2008.
Reporting currency and exchange rates The sterling and US dollar gures shown in this document have The proposed final dividends will be paid in accordance with the been provided for the convenience of users and do not form part timetable set out on page 37. of the audited accounts of the Unilever Group.
These gures have NV 2007 2006 been translated from euros using the following rates of exchange: Per Ordinary 0.16 share of NV Annual average rates Year-end rates Interim 0.25 0.23 Final 0.47 2007 2006 2007 2006 Proposed final 0.50 1 0.6822 0.6818 0.7342 0.6712 0.75 0.70 1 $ 1.3640 1.2540 1.4710 1.3170 One-off 0.26 The summary consolidated balance sheet is translated at yearTotal 0.75 0.96 end rates and the summary consolidated income statement and summary consolidated cash ow statement are translated at annual average rates.
PLC 2007 2006 1 Per Ordinary 3 p share of PLC 9 Summary accounting policies Interim 17.00p 15.62p The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with Final 32.04p International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Proposed final 34.11p the European Union EU and in accordance with Book 2 of the 51.11p 47.66p Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies One-off 17.66p Acts 1985 and 2006.
They are also in accordance with IFRS as issued Total 51.11p 65.32p by the International Accounting Standards Board.
24 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Dividends for US shareholders Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The 1 Per Ordinary 0.16 Per Ordinary 3 9p auditors statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued share of NV share of PLC by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
2007 2006 2007 2006 Our reports on the Unilever Group full annual accounts describe the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements and the Interim $0.3612 $0.2934 $0.3525 $0.2983 Final $0.6363 $0.6357 Directors Remuneration Report.
Proposed final $0.7311 $0.6684 Opinion $1.0923 $0.9297 $1.0209 $0.9340 One-off $0.3316 $0.3372 In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the Report of the Directors and the Report Total $1.0923 $1.2613 $1.0209 $1.2712 of the Remuneration Committee of Unilever Group for the year Proposed final dividends have been translated into US dollars at the rate of exchange ended 31 December 2007 and complies with the applicable ruling on 6 February 2008 1 $1.4621, 1 $1.9595.
These dividends will be paid using the exchange rates ruling on 14 May 2008 for PLC and 15 May 2008 for NV.
requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Unilever website The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website are the  LLP responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially 10 March 2008 presented on the website.
Independent auditors report to the shareholders Legislation in the Netherlands and the UK governing the preparation of Unilever N. V. and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation We have audited whether the Summary Financial Statement of the in other jurisdictions.
Unilever Group in euros for the year 2007, as set out on pages 26 and 27, has been derived consistently from the audited consolidated Independent auditors statement to the shareholders accounts of the Unilever Group for the year 2007.
In our auditors of Unilever PLC report dated 10 March 2008 we expressed an unquali ed opinion on these consolidated accounts.
The Directors are responsible for the We have examined the Summary Financial Statement in euros which comprises the summary consolidated income statement, summary preparation of the Summary Financial Statement in accordance with consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the accounting policies as applied in the 2007 full annual accounts summary consolidated balance sheet and summary consolidated of Unilever Group.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the cash ow statement and Summary Report of the Remuneration Summary Financial Statement.
Committee in euros set out on pages 26 and 27 and 31 to 35.
Scope Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law.
This law The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
assurance that the Summary Financial Statement has been derived consistently from the consolidated accounts.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the 2007 Annual Review provide a basis for our audit opinion.
with the full annual accounts, the Report of the Directors and the Report of the Remuneration Committee, and its compliance with Opinion the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United Kingdom In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statement has been derived Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
consistently, in all material respects, from the consolidated accounts.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review Emphasis of matter and consider the implications for our report if we become aware For a better understanding of the Groups financial position of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the and results and the scope of our audit, we emphasise that the Summary Financial Statement.
Summary Financial Statement should be read in conjunction with the consolidated accounts, from which the Summary Financial This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and Statement has been derived and our unquali ed auditors report only for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance thereon dated 10 March 2008.
Our opinion is not quali ed with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other in respect of this matter.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 10 March 2008 whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come  Accountants N. V. save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The Unilever Group The Code of Business Principles is Unilevers statement of values Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever PLC PLC are the two parent and represents the standard of conduct we require from all of companies of the Unilever Group, having separate legal identities our employees.
Our Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, and separate stock exchange listings for the shares of NV and financial and accounting of cers and comprises the standards PLC, which are not interchangeable.
However, together with their prescribed by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
group companies, they operate effectively as a single economic The Code of Business Principles Hotline is a con dential way for entity and constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes employees to submit concerns regarding accounting and auditing of presenting consolidated accounts.
issues anonymously and handles all alleged violations of the Code of Business Principles.
Copies of the Code of Business Principles, In order to ensure unity of governance and management, the Code of Ethics and the Share Dealing Code are posted on our they have the same Directors and are linked by a number website at www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance of co-operation agreements.
In particular, the Equalisation Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the two sets of Unilever aims to share these standards and values with its suppliers shareholders, including a formula for paying dividends.
These and contractors through its Business Partner Code which, in turn, features mean that all shareholders, whether of NV or PLC, is based on its Code of Business Principles.
It sets out standards share in the prosperity of the whole business.
on ten key points of business integrity, labour standards, consumer safety and the environment.
Further details of these agreements are contained in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and are also available on Developments in corporate governance www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance Unilever constantly keeps its corporate governance arrangements under review.
NV and PLC are subject to various corporate NV and PLC are holding and service companies.
Unilevers governance requirements and best practice codes, the most businesses are carried out by their subsidiaries around the world.
relevant being those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom Shares in group companies are held ultimately by either NV or and the United States.
It is Unilevers practice to comply, where PLC, or jointly by the two companies, in varying proportions.
practicable, with the highest level of these codes, and respond to developments appropriately.
Unilever has divided its business into three regions, The Americas, Asia Africa and Europe, which are responsible for delivering top Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director at the and bottom line results, implementing proven brand mixes in AGMs in May 2007, Unilever appointed its first independent their region and focusing on building capabilities with customers.
Non-Executive Chairman, Michael Treschow, in succession to The regions are complemented by two category teams, Foods, Antony Burgmans who retired as Chairman at those meetings.
and Home and Personal Care, which are responsible for the brand In September 2007, the of ce of the Joint Secretaries came to an development process including innovation, brand positioning end, and the position of a single Group Secretary was introduced and communication and category strategies.
In 2008 these teams and adopted by the Boards.
will be brought together under a single leadership.
More information on our corporate governance arrangements Unilever policies is set out in The Governance of Unilever, the Boards statement The implementation of and compliance with our governance of their internal arrangements, which can be found at structure is facilitated through a business-orientated policy www.
Unilever policies are universally applicable within the Unilever Group.
They are mandatory and have been developed to ensure consistency in key areas within our worldwide operations.
They cover operational and functional matters, and govern how we run our business, in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Unilever policies include: the Code of Business Principles, the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Of cers, the Compliance Manual for Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules including the Unilever Share Dealing Code, the Risk Management Policy, the Corporate Pensions Policy and the Accounting and Reporting Policy.
28 Unilever Annual Review 2007 The Boards reporting to shareholders, governance and compliance.
They Unilevers Directors are Directors of both NV and PLC.
Taking into also form the Audit Committee which is fully compliant with account their respective roles as Executive and Non-Executive the applicable rules in the Netherlands, UK and the US, the Directors, collectively they are ultimately responsible for the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, and in management, general affairs, direction and performance of the majority the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive Directors present, under the chairmanship of Mr Treschow.
Directors are elected by shareholders at the AGMs of NV and PLC In addition they usually meet before each Board meeting with the and make themselves fully accountable by submitting themselves Group Chief Executive and the Group Secretary.
Our nomination procedures are designed to ensure that the same people are the Directors of both companies.
Board induction and training Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities and individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends our business.
Ongoing training is provided by way of site visits, to the Boards a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs presentations, circulated updates, teach-ins and agenda items of both NV and PLC.
In addition, since 2006 shareholders have at Board meetings on, among other things, Unilevers business, been able to nominate Directors to this list although to do so they corporate governance, regulatory developments, and investor must put a resolution to both the NV and PLC AGMs in line relations matters.
with local requirements for requisitioning a resolution.
In order to ensure that the Boards remain identical anyone being elected In particular, during 2007 the Boards were given a presentation a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice by our external legal advisers on the new directors duties under versa.
If an individual fails to be elected to both companies then the UK Companies Act 2006. they will be unable to take their place on the Boards.
A more detailed corporate governance statement, as well as The Boards currently comprise a Chairman, three Executive the annual reports of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, and Directors and ten independent Non-Executive Directors.
They Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committees, is contained meet at least seven times a year to consider material matters in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
This Annual for NV, PLC and the Unilever Group.
These matters include, Report, our Code of Business Principles, NVs and PLCs Articles for example, results announcements, the Annual Report and of Association and The Governance of Unilever are available on Accounts, dividends, corporate strategy, annual plans, risks and our website at www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance controls, major business transactions, and Board appointments The Governance of Unilever contains, amongst other things, and remuneration.
our rules on Independence of Directors and the terms of reference of the Board Committees.
Unilever has a separate Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between their roles.
Executive Directors service contracts The Executive Directors are full-time employees of Unilever.
The Chairman is an independent Non-Executive Director and he Information about their remuneration can be found on pages is primarily responsible for leadership of the Boards, ensuring their 31 to 35 of this Annual Review.
More detailed information can effectiveness and setting their agendas.
He is also responsible be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee in the for ensuring that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and on our website at information.
com investorcentre The Group Chief Executive has been entrusted, within the The Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC of the Executive Directors to the security of 12 months notice of and The Governance of Unilever, with all the Boards powers, termination of employment is in line both with the practice of authorities and discretions in relation to the operational many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior management of Unilever.
The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors of the Boards duties, taking into account their speci c responsibilities, at no more than one years salary, unless the Boards, at the which are essentially supervisory.
They, in particular, comprise the proposal of the Remuneration Committee, nd this manifestly principal external presence in the governance of Unilever and unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated provide a strong independent element.
Our Non-Executive by applicable law.
Directors are chosen for their broad and relevant experience and international outlook, as well as their independence.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGMs each year.
The Nomination Committee carefully considers Key elements of their role and responsibilities as Non-Executive each nomination for re-appointment.
Directors include strategy, scrutiny of performance, risk management, controls, remuneration, succession planning, Unilever Annual Review 2007 29 Governance and financial statements Corporate governance continued The Directors stop holding executive of ce on ceasing to be Directors.
Those appointed prior to 2004 retire at the latest by Diversity statement the age of 62.
Appointees from 2004 onwards retire at an age Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences, creating possibilities between 60 and 65, as decided by either them or Unilever.
and growing together for better business performance.
We embrace diversity in our workforce: this means giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and Compliance continuing development to all employees regardless of gender, nationality, race, creed, disability, style or sexuality.
Diversity plays a vital role in ensuring we Unilever is subject to the corporate governance requirements understand consumers needs.
in the Netherlands, the UK and, as a foreign private issuer, in the US.
All of these requirements were taken into account when The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our business.
It is driven by the structuring our Board arrangements, details of which are set out Global Diversity Board, chaired by Group Chief Executive Patrick Cescau, who has emphasised that diversity is critical to our business competitiveness and long-term in The Governance of Unilever.
Details of our compliance with governance requirements in Unilever is one of the worlds most culturally diverse companies, with 21 different the Netherlands, UK and US are contained in the Annual Report nationalities represented among our top level group of 113 managers worldwide.
and Accounts 2007 and can also be found on our website at In 2007 we worked to embed diversity even more rmly into our day-to-day business www.
com investorcentre decisions, via our talent management and people processes, from appointments to development.
As part of the Human Resources planning process our business In the US, we are fully compliant with the Listing Standards units are also developing speci c diversity plans that are aligned to the priorities and needs of their regions and categories.
of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE applicable to foreign private issuers, and our corporate governance practices do We continue to carry out quarterly measurement and tracking of diversity against not signi cantly differ from those followed by US companies our objectives, using the HR Strategy in Action tool.
Gender remains an important priority and is reviewed by the UEx.
Disclosures in relation to the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
Board changes The current Executive Directors held of ce throughout the year, and their biographical details are shown on page 22.
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, David Simon, Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Kees Storm and Jeroen van der Veer were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC at the 2007 AGMs.
In addition, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu were appointed as Non-Executive Directors, and Michael Treschow became our first independent Non-Executive Chairman.
Biographical details for the existing Non-Executive Directors are found on pages 22 and 23.
At the 2007 AGMs, Rudy Markham retired as an Executive Director but remained as Chief Financial Of cer until his successor, Jim Lawrence, was appointed on 1 September 2007.
Lynda Chalker also retired as a Non-Executive Director at the 2007 AGMs, and in September 2007 Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as a Non-Executive Director due to personal reasons.
At the 2008 AGMs all of the current Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors will be nominated for re-election with the exception of Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler who will step down from the Boards.
In addition, Jim Lawrence will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2008 AGMs following his appointment as Chief Financial Of cer in September 2007.
Biographical details for Mr Lawrence are contained in the 2008 AGM Notices and on our website at www.
com investorcentre on the web www.
com investorcentre 30 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Summary remuneration report During 2007 the Remuneration Committee continued to progress The year 2007 marked a continuation of the Groups momentum on the five strategic principles that serve as the platform for of improved performance.
The focus on growth priorities, together Unilevers approach to remuneration for the Unilever Executive.
with stronger innovation, improved speed to market and better These principles not only pertain to our Executive Directors but in-market execution, has delivered consistent, and we believe, to all Unilevers leadership levels.
They provide the basis for our sustainable growth.
Underlying operating margins have improved remuneration structure, as explained in greater detail in the and a strong start was made in implementing an acceleration to following pages, and direct that pay should be: the implementation of the One Unilever reorganisation programme.
aligned with shareholders interests: Based on the performance over 2007 the annual incentive awards robustly linked to performance: were on average 128% of base salary across the Unilever Executive aligned with strategic priorities: team.
A GPSP Global Performance Share Plan long-term incentive market competitive: and award will vest in 2008 for 121% based on the performance period easy to understand and communicate.
The minimum vesting level for the performance period 2005-2007 was in 2005 set at 2% per annum average USG The overriding objective is to ensure that Unilever recruits and underlying sales growth and 12.2 billion UFCF ungeared free retains the best performers, and effectively incentivises them to cash ow, whereas up to 200% could vest for USG exceeding achieve superior results.
It is also our aim to manage the differing 4% per annum and with UFCF more than 13.2 billion.
Targets were elements of total remuneration in a fully integrated manner.
set before the disposal of European Frozen Foods and before the disposal of UCI.
The targets have been adjusted by the impacts During 2007 these five principles provided the foundation for of these disposals.
A TSR total shareholder return long-term important changes to the level and structure of Unilevers incentive incentive award will also vest in 2008.
The vesting was 50% for th plans.
At our 2007 AGMs shareholders approved the introduction the performance period 2005-2007.
Unilever ranked 8 within of a new share-based incentive plan which appropriately aligned our the comparator group of peer companies.
programme with our peer company market.
The Committee also increased the annual incentive opportunity for Executive Directors Over the last three years to December 2007 Unilever has created while leaving base salary levels unchanged.
Together these changes more than 20 billion of shareholder value.
Looking forward to have placed a greater emphasis on performance-based rewards 2008 we expect the group leadership to deliver improvement relative to xed pay and play a critical role in driving improved against our longer-term objectives and, as a result, our shareholders business results.
and our executives will be duly awarded.
During the second half of 2007 Jim Lawrence was appointed In September 2007 Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as a Nonas Chief Financial Of cer of Unilever.
Jim Lawrences election to Executive Director for personal reasons.
We would like to take the Boards is subject to shareholders approval at the AGMs in this opportunity to thank Jean-Cyril for his contributions to Unilever May 2008.
However, in the interests of transparency and good and our Committee.
His wise counsel and experience have been governance, a summary of his remuneration arrangements has most helpful.
We wish him all the best for the future.
We are currently been included in this years report.
working to replace Jean-Cyril with a new recruit for our Committee during 2008.
Michael Treschow was also appointed a member of our Committee on 6 February 2008.
David Simon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Jeroen van der Veer Remuneration policy 2007 Fixed Element Payment Value determination Plan objectives Key drivers Base salary Cash Market median Attraction and retention of high performing key executives Pension Cash Directors stay in their home country pension fund or an Attraction and retention of high performing key executives alternative of similar value.
Bonus not pensionable Variable Element Payment Indicative levels at face value as % of base pay Plan objectives Key drivers Annual Cash 75% Executive Directors: target 87% range 0%-150% Delivery of trading contribution Unilevers primary internal incentive Shares 25% Group Chief Executive: target 113% range 0%-200% measure of economic value added and top-line growth targets Individual responsibility for key Unilever business objectives Global Share Shares Grant level for Executive Directors: up to 120% in 2007 Shareholder return at upper half of peer group.
See page 32 Incentive Plan from 2008 onwards up to 180% is allowable Ungeared free cash ow as the basic driver of Unilever Grant level for Group Chief Executive: up to 135% shareholder returns from 2008 onwards up to 200% is allowable Top-line revenue growth as essential to Unilevers long-term In exceptional circumstances the Committee may exceed value creation the limits Vesting level: 0-200% of grant Share Matching Shares 25% of annual incentive is paid in shares: these shares are Alignment with shareholders interests Plan matched one for one Unilever Annual Review 2007 31 Governance and financial statements Summary remuneration report continued A signi cant proportion of the Executive Directors total reward Achievement of targets is measured at the end of the year and is linked to a number of key measures of Group performance the payment takes place the following March.
25% of the annual to create alignment with the strategy, business priorities and incentive is delivered to the Executive Directors in the form of shareholder value.
shares in NV and PLC, which are matched by a conditional award of matching shares, as further described under the section on The total remuneration package for Executive Directors is long-term incentives below.
intended to be competitive in a global market with a strong emphasis on performance related pay.
Long-term incentives At the 2007 AGMs shareholders approved the new Unilever Global Internal and external comparisons are made with the reward Share Incentive Plan GSIP for employees and Executive Directors.
arrangements for other senior executives within Unilever to support consistent application of Unilevers executive reward policies.
The new plan supports the Committees strategic remuneration principles for executives.
The number of shares vesting is linked to In setting targets for the performance measures, the Committee improvements in Unilevers performance over a three-year period.
is guided by what would be required to deliver top third The plan integrates and replaces two previous long-term plans, shareholder value.
This is re ected in both the short-term and the GPSP and TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan, making Unilevers long-term performance targets.
long-term arrangements simpler and easier to understand.
Base salary The long-term incentive for Executive Directors now consists The Remuneration Committee reviews base salary levels annually, of two elements, both of which are delivered in shares: taking into account external benchmarks, within the context of Group and individual performance.
The Committee decided not Global Share Incentive Plan: and to increase the salaries in 2007 in order to place more emphasis Share Matching Plan linked to annual incentive.
on performance related pay and less on xed pay.
Executive Directors are required to demonstrate a signi cant Annual incentive personal shareholding commitment to Unilever.
Within five years The annual incentive arrangement rewards Executive Directors for of appointment, they are expected to hold shares worth 150% the delivery of trading contribution Unilevers primary internal of their annual base salary.
This reinforces the link between the measure of economic value added and top-line growth targets, as executives and other shareholders.
well as for their individual contribution to Unilevers business strategy.
Global Share Incentive Plan GSIP In 2007 the Remuneration Committee reviewed annual incentive Under the GSIP annual awards of shares in NV and PLC are levels in light of the strategic remuneration principles.
Given the granted to Executive Directors.
The actual number of shares desire to enhance the focus on performance-linked pay and to received at vesting after three years depends on the satisfaction ensure arrangements are market competitive, the Committee of performance conditions.
decided to increase annual incentive opportunities.
In 2007 the opportunity for Executive Directors was increased to a maximum For the 2007 awards, the vesting of shares is conditional on of 150% of base salary and for the Group Chief Executive up to the achievement of three distinct performance conditions 200%.
Up to 120% of salary will be based on Unilevers business over the performance period.
The performance period is the result targets 133.3% for Group Chief Executive and a maximum three-year period which began on 1 January 2007 and ends of 30% of salary will be based on individual business targets on 31 December 2009.
The target levels are around 60% of maximum.
Aggressive business targets mean that The vesting of 40% of the shares in the award is based on a maximum levels are only payable for exceptional performance.
condition measuring Unilevers relative TSR against a comparator group of 20 other companies over that three-year period.
TSR The performance criteria for the annual incentive are: measures the return received by a shareholder, capturing both the increase in share price and the value of dividend income trading contribution: this is Unilevers primary internal measure assuming dividends are reinvested.
The TSR results are compared of economic value added.
It is calculated from trading result on a single reference currency basis.
No shares in the portion of after a deduction for tax and a charge for asset use.
Trading the award subject to TSR will vest if Unilever is ranked below result is the internal management measure of pro t that is the position 11 of the TSR ranking table over the three-year period.
th most consistent with operating pro t. Increases in trading 50% of the shares will vest if Unilever is ranked 11 among the th contribution re ect the combined impact of top-line growth, peer group, 100% if ranked 7, and 200% will vest if Unilever rd margin improvement and capital ef ciency gains.
It is well is ranked 3 or above in the table.
Straight-line vesting will occur aligned with our objective of a progressive improvement in between these points.
return on invested capital and with shareholder value creation: underlying sales growth: this focuses on the organic growth of The TSR peer group is as follows: Unilevers turnover: and Avon Colgate Kraft PepsiCo individual business and leadership targets: these are tailored Beiersdorf Danone Lion Procter & Gamble to each individuals responsibilities to deliver certain business Cadbury Schweppes Heinz LOral Reckitt Benckiser objectives supporting the strategy.
Individual contribution is Clorox Kao Nestl Sara Lee assessed against robustly set measures and targets to ensure Coca-Cola Kimberly-Clark Orkla Shiseido both objectivity and stretch.
32 Unilever Annual Review 2007 The vesting of a further 30% of the shares in the award is Serving as Non-Executive on the Board of another company conditional on achieving an underlying sales growth target.
Some of the Executive Directors serve as a Non-Executive on the Boards of other companies.
In 2007 Unilever required that The vesting of the final 30% of the shares in the award is all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships are conditional on achieving an ungeared free cash ow target which paid directly to Unilever.
The policy has been amended in 2008. is the basic driver of the returns that Unilever is able to generate for shareholders.
Arrangements for Jim Lawrence Jim Lawrence joined Unilever in September 2007 as Chief Financial Vesting of the business performance-focused parts of an award Of cer.
He will be proposed for election to the Boards of NV and PLC depends on meeting challenging objectives.
There will be no vesting at the AGMs in May 2008.
Given Unilevers objective of balancing if performance is below the minimum of the range, 25% vesting remuneration more clearly towards performance-linked variable for achieving minimum and 200% vesting only at or substantially pay the agreed package follows this policy direction.
His salary in above the top end of the range.
2007 was set at US$1 100 000 per annum: the maximum annual incentive in 2007 was 150% of salary and the grant under the GSIP Performance for each condition will be assessed independently in 2007 was 49 962 each of NV shares and PLC shares.
He will be from the other conditions over the performance period.
Shares in a pension plan similar to that of Unilever in the US, which is a will only vest if and to the extent that the respective performance fide ned contribution plan.
To compensate for the forfeiture of conditions are satis ed.
There will be no re-testing.
incentives from his former employer, a cash allowance was paid on appointment of US$1 million with a pro rata claw back over Share Matching Plan linked to the annual incentive three years and restricted shares of 35 565 each of NV and PLC The Share Matching Plan enhances the alignment with shareholders were granted at award value US$2.5 million.
These will vest for interests and supports the retention of key executives.
In addition, 3 after one year of service, 3 after two years of service and 3 the necessity to hold the shares for a minimum period of three years after three years of service.
Jim Lawrence has purchased 295 508 NV shares and 240 000 The Executive Directors receive 25% of their annual incentive PLC ADRs.
in the form of NV and PLC shares.
These are matched with an equivalent number of matching shares.
The matching shares will Future developments vest after three years provided that the underlying shares have The Remuneration Committee continues to monitor trends and been retained during this period and the Executive Director has changes in the market.
It keeps a watching brief on the continuing not resigned or been dismissed.
alignment between Unilevers strategic objectives and the reward policy for Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee considers that there is no need for further performance conditions on the vesting of the matching From 1 January 2008 the UK all-employee pension plan bene t shares because the number of shares is directly linked to the changed for new hires from final salary to a combination of career annual incentive which is itself subject to demanding performance average earnings up to a limit of 38 000 and fide ned contribution conditions.
In addition, during the three-year vesting period the above the limit.
Existing employees are being given the option to share price of NV and PLC will be in uenced by the performance move to the new plan or to remain in the previous plan subject to of Unilever.
This, in turn, will affect the ultimate value of the certain changes including paying higher individual contributions.
The latter affects the UK-based Executive Directors Patrick Cescau and Ralph Kugler.
Executive Directors pensions The policy beginning in 2007 is that new Executive Directors will The performance range for the GSIP 2008 award performance be members of the all-employee pension arrangement in their period 2008-2010 will be in respect of average underlying sales home country or an alternative of similar value and will pay growth 4%-6.4% per annum and for cumulative ungeared free employee contributions at the same rate as other employees cash ow 10.5 billion-15.5 billion.
Commentary on 2007 remuneration Executive Directors appointed prior to 2007 have a fide ned Base salary bene t pension of two-thirds of final salary, payable at retirement In 2007, base salary levels were benchmarked against those from age 60. paid in other major global companies based in Europe, excluding companies in the financial sector.
The Committee decided not Annual incentive is not pensionable except for Executive Directors to increase base salaries for 2007 and to place greater emphasis appointed prior to the change of policy in 2005 Patrick Cescau, on performance-based pay.
Kees van der Graaf and Rudy Markham who retired in 2007 for whom annual incentive is pensionable up to a maximum of 20% Annual incentive of base salary.
The annual incentive awards for 2007 were subject to achievement of underlying sales growth and trading contribution targets Other bene ts and allowances in combination with individual key strategic business targets.
Executive Directors enjoy similar bene ts to those enjoyed by many The Committee measured the results against the targets set and other employees of Unilever.
determined the annual incentive amounts for 2007.
Unilever Annual Review 2007 33 Governance and financial statements Summary remuneration report continued Long-term incentive arrangements Five-year historical TSR performance Global Share Incentive Plan Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years The first award was made in 2007 with a performance period FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values 2007-2009.
Unilever FTSE 100 Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Global Performance Share Plan 200 The performance period for the first awards made under the 180 plan ended on 31 December 2007.
Vesting will be in May 2008 three years after award.
160 140 TSR Plan 120 In 2007 the conditional shares awarded in 2004 lapsed.
Vesting 100 was based on the TSR performance of Unilever when ranked 80 against its fide ned peer group with competitors over the three- 60 year performance period which ended 31 December 2006. th For this period, Unilever was ranked 13 in its peer group and therefore no vesting occurred for this award and the shares Growth in the value of a hypothetical investment over five years lapsed in March 2007.
AEX comparison based on 30 day average values Unilever Share Matching Plan AEX Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 In 2007 the matching shares originally granted in 2004 200 on a conditional basis vested, subject to ful lment of the 180 retention conditions.
160 Executive Share Options 140 The grants of executive share options made in 2004 became 120 exercisable as from 2007.
As the 2004 grant was based on 100 Unilevers EPS performance, the options at vesting were subject 80 to no further conditions.
60 Pensions The Netherlands all-employee pension plan bene t basis Role and responsibilities was changed from final salary to career average earnings at The Committee is responsible for making proposals to the Boards 31 December 2006.
This had a small impact on the accrued on the reward policy for Executive Directors.
It is also responsible pension of the Netherlands-based Executive Director.
for setting individual reward packages for Executive Directors and for monitoring and approving all share-based incentive During 2007 individual contributions paid by Executive Directors arrangements.
The Committee meets at least three times a year in the UK were paid through salary sacri ce arrangement.
and, during 2007, it met on five occasions.
Non-Executive Directors Structure and role The Non-Executive Directors receive fees from both NV and PLC.
During 2007 David Simon served as Chairman of the Committee No other remuneration is given in respect of their Non-Executive with Jeroen van der Veer and Jean-Cyril Spinetta as Non-Executive duties from either NV or PLC, such as annual incentives, sharemembers.
Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as a Director in based incentives or pension bene ts.
Michael Treschow was appointed a member of the Committee on 6 February 2008.
The level of their fees re ects their commitment and contribution to the companies.
The Chairmans levels were reviewed and increased with the appointment of Michael Treschow as Chairman in 2007.
Additional statutory and other disclosures Unilevers share performance relative to broad-based equity indices The UK Companies Act 1985 schedule 7A requires us to show Unilevers relative share performance, based on total shareholder return, against a holding of shares in a broad-based equity index for the last five years.
The Remuneration Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance against two indices, namely the FTSE 100 Index, London, and the Euronext AEX Index, Amsterdam as these are the most generally used indices in the UK and the Netherlands, where we have our principal listings.
34 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Advice and assistance The Committee does not formally retain remuneration consultants.
It seeks professional advice from external advisers as and when required.
During 2007, the Committee sought advice from Towers Perrin an independent rm of human resources specialists on market data, reward trends and performance related pay.
Towers Perrin also provides general consultancy advice to Unilever group companies on employee rewards, pension, communications and other human resource matters.
The Group Secretary attends all Committee meetings and advises on matters of corporate governance.
The Group Chief Executive can be invited to attend Committee meetings to provide his own insights to the Committee on business objectives and the individual performance of his direct reports.
Naturally, he does not attend when his own remuneration is being discussed.
During 2007 the Non-Executive Chairman could, in his role as Chairman of the Boards, also attend meetings.
Remuneration for individual Executive Directors The following table gives details of the remuneration received in 2007 including the value of vested share match and options exercised by each Executive Director individually.
All allowances are taxable in the country of residence apart from the entertaining allowance which is currently tax free in the Netherlands.
b Includes: benets for company car: housing for business use instead of hotel: medical insurance and private use chauffeur driven cars.
Included are benets that are taxable in the country of residence.
In addition, Unilever provides support to Executive Directors in relation to spouses travel expenses when travelling together on company business.
This amount is capped at 5% of base salary and for 2007 totalled 168 559 114 991 including related taxes payable.
Includes: the value of both the cash element and the element paid in shares of NV and PLC.
In addition to the element of the bonus paid in shares each Executive Director is awarded, on a conditional basis, an equivalent number of matching shares.
e Rudy Markham stepped down as Director at the May 2007 AGMs.
He retired from Unilever at 31 October 2007.
In the table above are the emoluments for the period January May 2007.
His emoluments for the period June October were in total: 1 140 000 777 708.
Figures have been translated into euros using the following exchange rate: 1 0.6822 2006: 1 0.6818.
The Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Boards of Directors on 10 March 2008.
M Treschow P Cescau Chairman Group Chief Executive Unilever Annual Review 2007 35 Shareholder information Contact details Electronic communications Shareholders in PLC are able to purchase additional shares at low Shareholders of PLC can elect not to receive paper copies of the commission rates through a dividend reinvestment plan that is Annual Review and other shareholder documents but to be alerted administered by the registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
by email to view these documents on our website.
To register, or Further details of this plan can be found within the Dividends to nd out more, please visit www.
com shareholderservices section of our corporate website www.
com or by contacting and select the e-communication option.
NV shareholders participating in the Shareholders Communication In addition, for holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC ADRs, Channel will be able to appoint a Proxy electronically to vote on it is possible through Citibank, N. A. to open an International Direct their behalf at the AGM in 2008.
Investment Plan account that takes advantage of reduced brokerage commissions and service costs to purchase additional New York Dividend reinvestment plans Registry Shares or ADRs, as appropriate, with cash dividends.
NV and PLC shareholders have the opportunity to reinvest their Further details of the International Direct Investment Plan can cash dividends in order to buy additional shares in those companies be gained by contacting IDI Plan, Citibank, N. A. PO Box 43077, through its dividend reinvestment plans.
Providence, RI 02940-3077, USA or by calling toll free on 888 502 6356 if you are within the US or on 1 781 575 4555 Shareholders in NV, who hold their depositary receipts for from outside the US.
ordinary shares in Euroclear Nederland through an admitted institution of Euronext Amsterdam, can participate in a dividend Quarterly results announcements reinvestment plan arranged and administered by ABN AMRO These are available on our website at www.
com investorcentre Bank N. V. Further details of this plan can be found within the in English, with gures in euros, sterling or US dollars.
In Dutch they Dividends section of our corporate website www.
com or are available at www.
nl onsbedrijf beleggers by contacting ABN AMRO Bank N. V. on 31 0 76 57 99 600.
UK capital gains tax The market value of PLC 39p ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 Share registration would have been 76.84p per share.
Since 1982, PLC ordinary Netherlands shares have been sub-divided on two occasions and consolidated N. V. Algemeen Nederlands on two occasions.
First, with effect on 26 June 1987, the 25p Trustkantoor ANT shares were split into five shares of 5p each.
Secondly, with effect Claude Debussylaan 24 on 13 October 1997, the 5p shares were split into four shares of 1082 HD Amsterdam 1.25p each.
Thirdly, with effect on 10 May 1999, the shares were consolidated by replacing every 112 shares of 1.25p each with Telephone 31 0 20 522 2555 100 shares of 1.4p each.
Lastly, with effect on 22 May 2006, the Telefax 31 0 20 522 2500 shares were consolidated by replacing every 20 shares of 1.4p 1 Website www.
nl each with nine shares of 3 p each.
nl @ Listing details UK NV ordinary shares and depositary receipts for ordinary shares Computershare Investor Services PLC are listed on Euronext Amsterdam and as New York Registry The Pavilions Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
The ordinary shares, Bridgwater Road the depositary receipts for ordinary shares and the New York Bristol BS99 6ZY Registry Shares are exchangeable on a 1:1 basis.
NV depositary receipts for cumulative preference shares are listed only on Telephone 44 0 870 600 3977 Euronext Amsterdam.
com shareholderservices PLC ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and Email web.
co. uk as American Depositary Receipts on the New York Stock Exchange.
@ Each ADR represents one underlying ordinary PLC share.
USA Citibank Shareholder Services Further information relating to our shares is available on our PO Box 43077 website at www.
com investorcentre Providence, RI 02940-3077 Shareholder questionnaire Toll free phone inside US 888 502 6356 We would welcome your views on our online Annual Review.
Toll phone outside US 1 781 575 4555 A questionnaire in English is available on our website at Website www.
com annualreview Email citibank shareholders-online.
com investorcentre 36 Unilever Annual Review 2007 Financial calendar and addresses The two parent companies, Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever Financial calendar PLC PLC, together with their group companies, operate effectively as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, Annual General Meetings also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
This Annual Review therefore deals with the operations and the results PLC 11.00am 14 May 2008 London of the Unilever Group as a whole.
The Unilever Annual NV 10.30am 15 May 2008 Rotterdam Review and Annual Report and Accounts are produced in Dutch and English.
Announcements of results The brand names shown in italics in this Annual Review First Quarter 8 May 2008 Third Quarter 30 October 2008 are trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within First Half Year 31 July 2008 Final for Year 5 February 2009 the Unilever Group.
Dividends on ordinary capital Unilever has adopted the euro as its principal reporting currency.
The gures in this Annual Review are expressed Final for 2007 announced 7 February 2008 and to be declared 14 May 2008 for PLC and 15 May 2008 for NV in euros with translations, for convenience purposes, into sterling and US dollars.
Ex-dividend Record Payment date date date In the commentary on pages 16 to 21, sales growth is stated on an underlying basis at constant exchange rates NV 19 May 2008 21 May 2008 19 June 2008 and excluding the effects of acquisitions and disposals.
PLC 21 May 2008 23 May 2008 19 June 2008 For further information, please refer to our website at NV New York Registry Shares 19 May 2008 21 May 2008 19 June 2008 www.
com investorcentre PLC American Depositary Receipts 21 May 2008 23 May 2008 19 June 2008 The term shares as used in this document should, with Interim for 2008 to be announced 30 October 2008 respect to shares issued by NV be construed to include depositary receipts for shares issued by Foundation Ex-dividend Record Payment Unilever N. V. Trust Of ce, unless the context otherwise date date date requires or unless it is clear from the context that this is not the case.
The exchange rates used in the preparation NV 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008 of this Annual Review are given on page 24.
PLC 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008 NV New York Registry Shares 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008 Cautionary statement PLC American Depositary Receipts 5 November 2008 7 November 2008 3 December 2008 This document may contain forward-looking statements, Cumulative preference shares NV including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act Announced Ex-dividend Record Payment of 1995.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends or date date date date the negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future performance or results, including financial objectives 4% 5 December 2008 8 December 2008 10 December 2008 2 January 2009 to 2010, and their negatives, are intended to identify such 6% and 7% 5 September 2008 8 September 2008 10 September 2008 1 October 2008 forward-looking statements.
They are not historical Addresses facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
Rotterdam London Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed Unilever N. V. Unilever PLC or implied by these forward-looking statements, including, Investor Relations Department Investor Relations Department among others, competitive pricing and activities, Weena 455, PO Box 760 Unilever House consumption levels, costs, the ability to maintain and 3000 DK Rotterdam 100 Victoria Embankment manage key customer relationships and supply chain The Netherlands London EC4Y 0DY sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability to United Kingdom integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, the ability to complete planned restructuring activities, Telephone 44 0 20 7822 6830 Telephone 44 0 20 7822 6830 physical risks, environmental risks, the ability to manage Telefax 44 0 20 7822 5754 Telefax 44 0 20 7822 5754 regulatory, tax and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current estimates, legislative, scal and Any queries can also be sent to us electronically via www.
com contactus regulatory developments, political, economic and social conditions in the geographic markets where the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards.
Further details of potential risks and uncertainties affecting Unilever website the Group are described in the Groups lings with the London Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website www.
com which has a wealth of Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual information about the Unilever Group.
There is a section designed speci cally for investors Report and Accounts on Form 20-F.
com investorcentre Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forwardlooking statements contained herein to re ect any change in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document does not comply with accounting principles Designed and produced by Unilever Communications in conjunction with Addison Corporate Marketing generally accepted in the United States US GAAP and Board photography by Jaap van den Beukel should not therefore be relied upon by readers as such.
The Groups Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2007 is separately Product photography by The Pack Shot Company led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and Main photography mostly from Unilever image library is available on our corporate website www.
com Printed by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO 14001: 2004, FSC certi ed and CarbonNeutral In addition, a printed copy of the Annual Report on Form 20-F is available, free of charge, upon request to Unilever PLC, Investor Relations Department, Unilever House, 100 Victoria This document is printed on Greencoat Plus Velvet which has been independently certi ed according Embankment, London EC4Y 0DY, United Kingdom.
to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
com annualreview Unilever Annual Review 2007 37 Unilever N. V. Weena 455, PO Box 760 3000 DK Rotterdam The Netherlands T 31 0 10 217 4000 F 31 0 10 217 4798 Commercial Register Rotterdam Number: 24051830 Unilever PLC Unilever House 100 Victoria Embankment London EC4Y 0DY United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7822 5252 F 44 0 20 7822 5951 Unilever PLC registered office Unilever PLC Port Sunlight Wirral Merseyside CH62 4ZD United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales Company Number: 41424 www.
