Shareholder information continued Shareholder information continued Nature of the trading market The principal trading markets upon which Unilever shares are NV and PLC are separate companies with separate stock exchange listed are Euronext Amsterdam for NV depositary receipts of listings and different shareholders.
Shareholders cannot convert ordinary and preference shares and the London Stock Exchange or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the for PLC ordinary shares.
NV ordinary shares mainly trade in the relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, form of depositary receipts for shares.
Each NV ordinary share now represents the same underlying economic interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC In the United States, NV ordinary shares and PLC American ordinary share save for exchange rate uctuations.
Depositary Receipts are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
Citibank, N. A. acts for NV and PLC as issuer, transfer agent and, If you are a shareholder of NV, you have an interest in a Dutch in respect of the American Depositary Receipts, depositary.
legal entity, your dividends will be paid in euros converted into US dollars if you have shares registered in the United States and There have not been any significant trading suspensions in the you may be subject to tax in the Netherlands.
If you are a past three years.
shareholder of PLC, your interest is in a UK legal entity, your dividends will be paid in sterling converted into US dollars if you At 1 March 2008 there were 6 104 registered holders of NV have American Depositary Receipts and you may be subject to New York Registry shares and 790 registered holders of PLC UK tax.
Nevertheless, the Equalisation Agreement means that as American Depositary Receipts in the United States.
We estimate a shareholder of either company you effectively have an interest that approximately 18% of NVs ordinary shares were held in the in the whole of Unilever.
You have largely equal rights over our United States approximately 21% in 2006, while most holders combined net profit and capital reserves as shown in the of PLC ordinary shares are registered in the United Kingdom consolidated accounts.
See Equalisation Agreement on pages 40 approximately 99% in 2007 and in 2006. and 41.
The high and low trading prices for the separate stock exchange listings are shown in the tables on the following page.
