Financial statements continued Statement of Directors responsibilities Annual accounts Our procedures cover financial, operational, social, strategic and The Directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in environmental risks and regulatory matters.
The Boards of NV the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and PLC have also established a clear organisational structure, to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and including delegation of appropriate authorities.
The Groups fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV control framework is supported through a Code of Business and PLC entities as at the end of the financial year and of the Principles, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity profit or loss and cash ows for that year.
for its operations worldwide, and through an Operational Controls Assessment process, which requires the senior The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group management in each business unit to assess the effectiveness of and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate financial controls.
In our major units financial controls are subject accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by to a comprehensive risk-based assessment annually with controls reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all in the remaining units being reviewed over a oneto three-year International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU cycle.
and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the case of the consolidated accounts and United Kingdom The Boards have overall responsibility for establishing key accounting standards in the case of the parent company accounts procedures designed to achieve systems of internal control which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
and disclosure control and for reviewing and evaluating their effectiveness.
The day-to-day responsibility for implementation The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC of these procedures and ongoing monitoring of risk and keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the effectiveness of controls rests with the Groups senior their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure management at individual operating company and regional that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
Regions review, on an ongoing basis, the risks faced by have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are their group and the related internal control arrangements, and reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, provide written reports to the Group Chief Executive.
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Unilevers corporate internal audit function plays a key role in This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the providing an objective view and continuous reassurance of the Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for effectiveness of the risk management and related control systems shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors throughout Unilever to both operating management and the and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Group has an independent Audit Committee, comprised entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is This Committee meets regularly with the Chief Auditor and placed on our website at www.
com investorcentre The the external auditors.
maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not Unilever has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors budget approved by the Boards, which is regularly reviewed and accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred updated.
Performance is monitored against budget and the to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the previous year through monthly and quarterly reporting routines.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands The Group reports to shareholders quarterly.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Unilevers system of risk management has been in place throughout 2007 and up to the date of this report, and complies UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of with the recommendations of Internal Control Revised PLC regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, published by in respect of these is made on page 136. the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in October 2005.
The Boards Going concern have carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis systems of risk management and internal control during 2007 in preparing the accounts.
This is because the Directors, in accordance with this guidance, and have ensured that the after making enquiries and following a review of the Groups necessary actions have been or are being taken to address budget for 2008 and 2009, including cash ows and borrowing any significant failings arising out of that review.
facilities, consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer concluded that the design and Internal and disclosure controls and procedures operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at Unilever has a well-established control framework, which is 31 December 2007 were effective, and that subsequently there documented and regularly reviewed by the Boards.
This have been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls, incorporates risk management, internal control procedures and or in other factors that could signicantly affect those controls.
disclosure controls and procedures including the operation of the Disclosure Committee see page 38 which are designed to It is Unilevers practice to bring acquired companies within the provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being addressed in any event by the end of the first full year of operation.
and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the Groups senior management, including where appropriate the Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, within the Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control required timeframe.
This requirement will be reported on separately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on Form 20-F. 66 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
