DELIVERING VALUE 68 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESpONSIBIlITIES IN RESpECT OF ThE ANNUAl REpORT AND FINANCIAl STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual In the case of the Companys UK GAAP financial statements, Report and the Financial Statements.
The Directors are the Directors are required to prepare financial statements required to prepare Financial Statements for the Group for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the in accordance with International Financial Reporting state of affairs of the Company and of the profit and loss of Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom statements, the Directors are required to: Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
n Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: In the case of the Groups IFRS financial statements, n Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial prudent, and statements present fairly for each financial year the n State whether applicable accounting standards have Groups financial position, financial performance and been followed, subject to any material departures cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of disclosed and explained in the.
the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any International Accounting Standard Boards Framework for time the financial position of the Company for safeguarding the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
the assets, taking reasonable steps for the prevention In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors the preparation of the report of the Directors and the are also required to: Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements n properly select and apply accounting policies: of the Companies Act 1985. n present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and The Boards statement on going concern is included in the understandable information: and Corporate Governance Report on page 57. n provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
