DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT To the shareholders of Cookson Group plc The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Directors of Cookson Group plc are responsible for preparing records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the Annual Report and the financial statements of the parent financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that company only the Company and of the Company and its its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. subsidiaries the Group, in accordance with applicable law and They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are regulations.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Remuneration Report and report on Corporate Governance that Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected to comply with that law and those regulations.
prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted integrity of the corporate and financial information included on Accounting Practice.
Legislation in the UK governing the The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ to present fairly the financial position and performance of the from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that On behalf of the Board Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial Mike Butterworth statements, the Directors are required to: Group Finance Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 11 March 2008 consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs: for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Cookson Group plc 48 Annual Report 2007
