NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Cookson Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Its registered address is shown on page 118.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Operating Review on pages 10 to 22.
The financial statements, which were authorised by the Directors for issue on 11 March 2008, are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.5.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The financial statements of the Company-only have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, as disclosed in note 1 to the Company financial statements.
The following standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, but do not have a material impact upon the results or net assets of the Group: 2.1 NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS The following new and amended standards and interpretations are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, but do not have a material impact upon the results or net assets of the Group.
International Accounting Standard 1 IAS 1 Amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements, Capital Disclosures: IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
2.2 STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE IFRS 8, Operating Segments, which is effective for years commencing on or after 1 January 2009, has been published, endorsed by the EU, and is available for early adoption, but has not been applied in these financial statements.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of IFRS 8 will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3.1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING With the exception of certain items noted below, which are carried at fair value, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS, having been prepared in accordance with IFRS for the first time in 2005.
3.2 DISCLOSURE OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS IAS 1 provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key lines which should be disclosed.
It also encourages additional line items and the re-ordering of items presented on the face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entitys financial performance.
In keeping with the spirit of this aspect of IAS 1, the Company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group income statement the effect of any components of financial performance considered by the Directors to be exceptional, or for which separate disclosure would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such presentation.
Such items may include, inter alia, the financial effect of any profits or losses arising on business disposals, major rationalisation or restructuring activity, curtailment gains or losses relating to employee benefits, profits or losses relating to non-current assets and other items, including the taxation impact of the aforementioned items, which have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations either due to their size or nature.
Cookson Group plc 54 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.3 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups interest therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
3.4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The Group took advantage of the exemption under IFRS 1, First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, not to restate all business combinations prior to 1 January 2004 in line with the requirements of IFRS 3.
3.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement: ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated: and iii Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity, in which case any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
b Translation from functional currency to presentation currency When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency pounds sterling, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date: ii Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
Cookson Group plc 55 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.5 FOREIGN CURRENCIES continued c Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
In the consolidated Group financial statements such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
3.6 REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers, after deducting sales allowances and value-added taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risk of loss transfers to the customer, depending on individual customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
3.7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
a Defined contribution pension plans Contributions to the Groups defined contribution plans are recognised as employee benefits expense when they fall due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that they result in either a cash refund or a reduction in future payments.
Outstanding contributions are recognised as a liability within accruals.
b Defined benefit pension plans The liability recognised in the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the sum of unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plans is recognised as follows: i Within trading profit: Current service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year: and Past service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in prior periods that arises from changes made to the benefits under the plans in the current year.
To the extent that the changes to benefits vest immediately, past service costs are recognised immediately, otherwise they are recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
ii Within finance costs: Interest cost on the liabilities of the plans calculated by reference to the plan liabilities and discount rate at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iii Within finance income: Expected return on the assets of the plans calculated by reference to the plan assets and long-term expected rate of return at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iv Within the statement of recognised income and expense: Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans.
v Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the income statement in the same line as the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised or, if material, separately reported as a component of profit from operations.
Cookson Group plc 56 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued c Share-based payments The Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements for its employees of both the equity-settled and cash-settled type.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return TSR upon which vesting for some of the awards is conditioned, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
For grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For consistency, this method has also been used to value executive share options and stock appreciation rights granted to executives whose options are not subject to the additional market-based performance conditions.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value of the amount payable is initially measured at grant date using a form of stochastic option pricing model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
3.8 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
3.9 BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs, comprising interest on bank loans and overdrafts, finance lease obligations, the unwinding of the discount on provisions and the costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings, are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
3.10 TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the associated deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Cookson Group plc 57 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Asset category Estimated useful life Freehold property between 10 and 50 years Leasehold property the term of the lease Plant and machinery motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years other between 5 and 15 years The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each financial year-end.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, as described in note 3.14.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
3.12 GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or associate represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or associate recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment testing is carried out annually, as described in note 3.14.
On disposal of a subsidiary or an associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
3.13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL Other intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
They are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
3.14 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use, which is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
a Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units for this purpose are the business segments disclosed in note 6, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cashgenerating unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Cookson Group plc 58 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.14 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued b Other tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.15 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group conducts its joint venture arrangements through jointly controlled entities and accounts for them using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under IFRS 5.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
3.16 INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost using the first-in, first-out method and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group holds precious metals under consignment arrangements, further details of which are given in note 27.
3.17 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Non-current assets or a collection of assets and liabilities in a disposal group are separately classified as held for sale in the balance sheet when their carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Immediately prior to being classified as held for sale the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Discontinued operations are those operations that can be clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group, both operationally and for financial reporting purposes, that have either been disposed of or classified as held for sale and which represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
3.18 LEASES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
a Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
b Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straightline basis over the lease term.
Cookson Group plc 59 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.19 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
b Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged note 4.2.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
c Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments include investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Loans and borrowings comprise secured and unsecured loans and obligations under finance leases note 3.18.
Non-derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups investments in equity and debt securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
All other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
3.20 PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the obligation.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
3.21 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
Because IFRS measures reflect all items which affect reported performance, the Directors believe that certain non-GAAP measures, which reflect what they view as the underlying performance of the Group, are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this annual report.
a Net sales value Net sales value is calculated as the total of revenue less the amount included therein related to any precious metal component.
The Directors believe that net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying sales performance of the Groups Precious Metals division.
b Return on sales and return on net sales value Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
Return on net sales value is calculated as trading profit divided by net sales value.
The Directors believe that return on sales provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group and the Groups Ceramics and Electronics divisions and that return on net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Groups Precious Metals division.
Cookson Group plc 60 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.21 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES continued c Underlying revenue growth Underlying revenue growth measures the organic growth in revenue from one year to the next after eliminating the effects of changes in exchange rates and metals prices and the effects of business acquisitions, disposals and closures.
The Directors believe that underlying revenue growth gives an important measure of the organic revenue generation capacity of the Group.
d Trading profit Trading profit, defined as profit from operations before the costs of rationalisation of operations, profits or losses relating to non-current assets and curtailment gains or losses relating to employee benefits, is separately disclosed on the face of the Group income statement.
The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
e Headline profit before tax Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and total net finance costs associated with ordinary activities.
The Directors believe that headline profit before tax provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
f Headline earnings per share Headline earnings per share is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and total net finance costs and income tax costs associated with ordinary activities, less profit attributable to minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The Directors believe that headline earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earnings capacity of the Group.
g Free cash flow Free cash flow, defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the acquisition and disposal of noncurrent assets, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to minority shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans, is disclosed on the face of the Group statement of cash flows.
The Directors believe that free cash flow gives an important measure of the underlying cash generation capacity of the Group.
h Average working capital to sales ratio The average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances being inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables for a year to the reported revenue for that year.
The Directors believe that the average working capital to sales ratio provides an important measure of the underlying effectiveness with which working capital balances are managed throughout the Group.
i EBITDA EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation charges.
The Directors believe that EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
j Net interest Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item therein considered by the Directors to be exceptional.
k Interest cover Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest.
The Directors believe that interest cover provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
l Net debt Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and cash and short-term deposits.
The Directors believe that net debt is an important measure as it shows the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions.
m Net debt to EBITDA Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year.
The Directors believe that net debt to EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
Cookson Group plc 61 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 3.21 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES continued n Return on net assets Return on net assets is calculated as trading profit plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures divided by average operating net assets being property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other operating receivables and payables.
The Directors believe that return on net assets provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Groups divisions.
o Return on investment Return on investment is calculated as trading profit plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures divided by invested capital being shareholders funds plus net debt, employee benefits deficit and goodwill previously written-off to, or amortised against, reserves.
The Directors believe that return on investment provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS a Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions and borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
It uses various financial instruments to manage these exposures, as explained below.
i Recognised assets and liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk and which could affect profit or loss.
Such forward exchange contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 a. ii Forecast transactions Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that might arise from the fluctuation of exchange rates in relation to highly probable forecast transactions that are denominated in currencies other than its own functional currencies and which might affect profit or loss.
Such forward exchange contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 b. iii Net investment hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts and debt denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are both used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
Such financial instruments are accounted for as net investment hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 c. b Credit risk At the balance sheet date, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
c Liquidity risk The Group Treasury function ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents to ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet its financial commitments.
d Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from its borrowings.
An analysis of the currency and interest rate profiles of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 36.
Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments.
From time to time the Company manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using interest rate swaps, which have the economic effect of changing the interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings.
Under the interest rate swaps the Company agrees with the counterparty to exchange at specified intervals the difference between the fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts.
4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES The Group designates certain financial instruments as either: a hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss fair value hedges : b hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedges : or c hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Cookson Group plc 62 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES continued a Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised within trading profit in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities that are subject to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within hedging reserves.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction takes place.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
c Net investment hedges The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity within translation reserves and subsequently recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
4.3 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Company considers its capital to be equal to the sum of its total equity as reported in the Group balance sheet and its net debt.
The Companys primary objectives when managing its capital are: to ensure that the Company and each of its subsidiaries and associated companies are able to operate as going concerns: to have available both the necessary financial resources and the appropriate mix of equity and debt to allow the Company to make investment decisions that will deliver acceptable future returns to shareholders: and to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Company manages its capital using a number of key performance indicators, including return on net assets and return on investment see page 11.
There were no changes in the Companys approach to capital management in the year.
Certain of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to, and throughout 2007 operated in compliance with, local externally imposed capital requirements.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 5.1 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The Groups financial statements present the results of discontinued operations separately from continuing operations.
Discontinued operations include those businesses that have been sold, or are classified as held for sale, and which represented a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
The Directors exercise their judgement to determine which of the Groups businesses should have their results presented within discontinued operations.
5.2 DEFERRED TAXATION The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in certain of the Groups businesses, primarily in Europe and Asia.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing difference might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group has losses and other timing differences for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements.
These can arise in loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of these timing differences is not probable.
It can also arise where the timing differences are of such a nature that their value is dependent on only certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, the timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
Cookson Group plc 63 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY continued 5.3 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Groups financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other postretirement benefits to current and former employees.
It is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
These assumptions are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the Groups profit and financial position.
5.4 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
Variations in asset lives could significantly impact Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
5.5 GOODWILL The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to the Group of the capitalised goodwill.
In the assessment undertaken in 2007, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period, and pre-tax discount rates ranging from 11-14%.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
5.6 CURRENT ASSET RESERVES In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Reserves are established for obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Reserve requirements are based on the facts available at the time and are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and receivables categories.
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances.
Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration in its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
5.7 ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and current production sites.
Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years and the costs are difficult to predict accurately.
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make reserves in the financial statements for an appropriate amount for the likely cost of such clean-ups.
Cookson Group plc 64 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION 6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT BUSINESS SEGMENTS For management reporting purposes the Groups continuing operations are organised into three main business segments, Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
These segments form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below.
The principal activities of each of these segments are described in the Operating Review on pages 10 to 22.
Segment revenue represents revenue to external customers.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets exclude cash and short-term deposits, deferred tax assets, income tax recoverable, investments in joint ventures, assets classified as held for sale and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as unallocated assets.
Segment liabilities exclude interestbearing loans and borrowings, employee benefits obligations, deferred tax liabilities, income tax payable, liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale and corporate liabilities that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as unallocated liabilities.
Assembly Precious Discontinued 2007 Materials Chemistry Electronics Ceramics Metals operations Total m m m m m m m Segment revenue 326.3 231.9 558.2 781.1 280.2 1.5 1,621.0 Segment result 29.8 28.2 58.0 109.4 9.9 0.2 177.1 Rationalisation of operating activities 0.1 0.8 0.9 2.1 2.8 5.8 Profit relating to non-current assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 5.8 7.0 Profit from operations before corporate costs 30.8 27.5 58.3 113.1 7.1 0.2 178.3 Corporate costs 7.7 Corporate curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 1.0 Group profit from operations 171.6 Segment assets 177.3 272.5 449.8 646.4 137.5 1.1 1,234.8 Unallocated assets 226.5 Total Group assets 1,461.3 Segment liabilities 34.1 40.4 74.5 171.6 22.5 13.2 281.8 Unallocated liabilities 413.6 Total Group liabilities 695.4 Other segment information: Capital expenditure 6.7 6.2 12.9 43.6 3.1 59.6 Depreciation 5.1 3.8 8.9 22.8 3.2 34.9 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.1 1.1 0.6 1.7 Interests in joint ventures 7.9 7.9 6.3 14.2 Cookson Group plc 65 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 6.1 PRIMARY REPORTING FORMAT BUSINESS SEGMENTS continued Assembly Precious Discontinued 2006 Materials Chemistry Electronics Ceramics Metals operations Total m m m m m m m Segment revenue 319.3 235.4 554.7 756.6 278.3 71.8 1,661.4 Segment result 28.2 30.3 58.5 89.5 11.0 7.9 166.9 Rationalisation of operating activities 7.0 1.7 8.7 22.9 2.4 0.1 34.1 Profit loss relating to non-current assets 1.5 12.8 14.3 0.1 14.2 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 4.6 1.7 6.3 2.2 0.1 8.6 Profit from operations before corporate costs 27.3 43.1 70.4 66.5 10.8 7.9 155.6 Corporate costs 8.7 Corporate rationalisation costs 0.6 Corporate loss relating to non-current assets 1.1 Group profit from operations 145.2 Segment assets 159.0 268.0 427.0 568.3 127.6 19.2 1,142.1 Unallocated assets 167.6 Total Group assets 1,309.7 Segment liabilities 45.2 45.6 90.8 155.3 25.2 15.2 286.5 Unallocated liabilities 539.0 Total Group liabilities 825.5 Other segment information: Capital expenditure 3.2 5.1 8.3 30.6 3.1 0.3 42.3 Depreciation 6.2 3.5 9.7 23.6 3.4 0.3 37.0 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.0 1.0 0.4 1.4 Interests in joint ventures 7.5 7.5 4.1 11.6 6.2 SECONDARY REPORTING FORMAT GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS Segment revenue Segment assets Capital expenditure 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m Europe 552.6 525.7 413.9 370.8 26.3 17.3 NAFTA 497.7 525.9 475.5 459.8 13.9 11.1 Asia-Pacific 441.3 420.9 285.5 241.7 16.2 12.2 Rest of the World 127.9 117.1 58.8 50.6 3.2 1.4 Continuing operations 1,619.5 1,589.6 1,233.7 1,122.9 59.6 42.0 Discontinued operations 1.5 71.8 1.1 19.2 0.3 Unallocated 226.5 167.6 Total Group 1,621.0 1,661.4 1,461.3 1,309.7 59.6 42.3 Segment revenue by geographical segment represents revenue from external customers based upon the geographical location of the customer.
The analyses of segment assets and capital expenditure are based upon the location of the assets.
Cookson Group plc 66 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 7.
EXPENSES BY NATURE The following items have been charged in arriving at trading profit: 2007 2006 m m Cost of sales 1,169.5 1,198.2 Depreciation 34.9 37.0 Minimum lease payments under leases and sub-leases 13.5 14.2 Employee benefits expense note 11.1 372.8 392.8 Auditors remuneration note 8 2.4 2.6 Foreign exchange differences 0.4 2.8 Research and development costs 23.1 23.8 8.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO KPMG AUDIT PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATES 2007 2006 m m Audit of these financial statements 0.6 0.5 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.1 1.2 Other services pursuant to such legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.2 0.3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.4 0.4 All other services 0.1 Total Auditors remuneration 2.4 2.6 9.
RATIONALISATION OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES The charge for rationalisation of operating activities of 5.8m 2006: 34.7m was the result of the implementation of a number of initiatives aimed at reducing the Groups cost base and realigning its manufacturing capacity with its customer markets.
The initiatives implemented included redundancy programmes, the consolidation of facilities, plant closures, the streamlining of manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of product lines.
Of these rationalisation charges, 1.6m 2006: 10.3m was in respect of asset write-downs.
Total cash spend in respect of rationalisation initiatives was 14.7m 2006: 16.1m, leaving provisions made but unspent of 5.8m as at 31 December 2007 31 December 2006: 19.3m.
The net taxation credit attributable to these rationalisation costs was 0.5m 2006: 2.1m.
PROFIT RELATING TO NON-CURRENT ASSETS The net profit relating to non-current assets of 7.0m 2006: 13.1m mainly comprised profits arising on the sale of surplus property.
The net taxation charge attributable to the sale of non-current assets was 1.2m 2006: 3.7m.
Cookson Group plc 67 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
EMPLOYEES 11.1 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE 2007 2006 m m Wages and salaries 321.3 339.2 Social security costs 35.1 34.7 Share-based payments note 38 3.5 3.1 Pension costs defined contribution plans note 37.1 7.7 7.0 Pension costs defined benefit plans note 37.6 6.9 7.4 Other post-retirement benefits note 37.6 1.4 0.4 Total employee benefits expense 375.9 391.0 Of the total employee benefits expense of 375.9m 2006: 391.0m, 372.8m 2006: 392.8 m was charged in arriving at trading profit, 2.0m 2006: nil was charged within rationalisation of operating activities, 1.0m 2006: 8.6m was credited within curtailment gains relating to employee benefits, 25.6m 2006: 26.1m was charged within finance costs, 22.6m 2006: 19.6m was credited within finance income, 1.0m 2006: nil was credited within loss on disposal of continuing operations and 0.1m 2006: 0.3m was charged in arriving at net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations.
11.2 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2007 2006 No.
Ceramics 8,601 8,677 Assembly Materials 1,661 1,646 Chemistry 1,366 1,274 Electronics 3,027 2,920 Precious Metals 1,725 1,760 Continuing operations 13,353 13,357 Discontinued operations 37 717 Total average number of employees 13,390 14,074 11.3 REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL The remuneration of the executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 47.
2007 2006 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.6 1.5 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 1.1 0.6 Total remuneration of key management personnel 2.9 2.3 Cookson Group plc 68 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 12.
FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOME 2007 2006 m m Interest payable on borrowings: Bank loans and overdrafts 23.8 27.1 Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.2 Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 0.4 0.4 24.3 27.7 Other interest payable: Interest on retirement benefit obligations 25.6 26.1 Interest on unwinding of discounted provisions 1.0 Total finance costs 50.9 53.8 Interest receivable 6.4 5.8 Expected return on retirement benefit assets 22.6 19.6 Interest credited on unwinding of discounted receivables 0.4 Total finance income 29.4 25.4 Finance costs 50.9 53.8 Finance income 29.4 25.4 Total net finance costs 21.5 28.4 13.
LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS During 2007 and 2006, the Group disposed of a number of businesses from its Ceramics and Electronics divisions, none of which individually or in aggregate represented a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation.
Accordingly, these disposals are presented within pre-tax results from continuing operations in the Groups income statement.
The aggregate proceeds, net of selling costs, amounted to 1.5m 2006: 14.5m and together with additional costs in relation to prior years disposals, resulted in a net loss before tax of 0.4m 2006: loss of 4.7m note 42.
The tax charge associated with these disposals was nil 2006: 0.6m.
INCOME TAX COSTS 2007 2006 m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 16.8 5.5 Double tax relief 16.2 5.0 Overseas taxation 33.6 32.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.9 5.5 Total current tax 39.1 38.4 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences 7.8 5.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.5 0.1 Total deferred tax note 25 4.3 5.4 Total income tax costs 43.4 43.8 Cookson Group plc 69 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.
INCOME TAX COSTS continued The Groups total income tax cost of 43.4m 2006: 43.8m includes 3.5m 2006: 5.3m relating to exceptional items, comprising a 0.5m credit 2006: 2.1m in relation to rationalisation costs note 9, a charge of 1.2m 2006: 3.7m in relation to non-current assets note 10 and a charge of 2.8m 2006: 3.1m in relation to the different treatment of goodwill amortisation for tax and reporting purposes.
Current tax cost for 2007 was reduced by a benefit of 3.5m 2006: 2.2m arising from previously unrecognised tax losses and increased by a charge of 0.7m for the impact on deferred tax balances of changes in tax rates.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices.
Changes in any of these areas could, adversely or positively, impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2007, as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses.
Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in note 3.10.
The tax charge relating to items charged or credited directly to equity was 0.3m 2006: nil.
The Groups total income tax cost for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 2007 2006 m m Profit before tax 151.4 113.5 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% 2006: 30% 45.4 34.1 Overseas tax rate differences 9.6 7.5 Impact of change in tax rates 0.7 Amortisation of intangibles 2.8 3.2 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 3.4 Disposal of continuing operations 1.5 Deferred tax assets not recognised 0.6 3.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.4 5.6 Total income tax costs 43.4 43.8 The UK corporation tax rate will change from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008.
NET POST-TAX LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The net post-tax loss of 0.1m on disposal of discontinued operations comprised a profit of 3.9m on the sale of Monofrax Inc. Monofrax, additional profit of 1.2m in respect of the 2003 disposal of the Groups former Speedline business, net of 5.2m of additional costs in respect of prior years disposals.
On 1 February 2007, the Group sold its Monofrax business, a US-based manufacturer of fused-cast refractory products, which previously formed part of the Ceramics division, to RHI AG RHI for US$45.0m 22.9m.
The purchase price was satisfied by the assumption by RHI of pension, retirement and other liabilities of US$5.6m 2.9m with the balance satisfied by cash of US$39.4m 20.0m.
As at 31 December 2006, the assets and liabilities of the Monofrax business were reclassified in the Group balance sheet to held for sale and measured at fair value less costs to sell, resulting in neither a profit nor a loss in 2006.
The disposal of Monofrax in 2007 resulted in a profit of 3.9m.
As part of the sale of the Groups former Speedline business in 2003 to KPS, an equity fund, the sale agreement provided for the Group to receive further consideration from KPS contingent upon Speedline being sold in the future for more than a specified sum.
In December 2006, Speedline was sold by KPS for an amount in excess of the specified sum and accordingly a profit of 1.2m has been recognised in 2007, in addition to the 2.7m reported in 2006.
In 2006, the 3.3m post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations comprised a 5.8m loss resulting from the disposal of the Groups former Laminates business, 0.2m of additional costs incurred in relation to the disposal in 2005 of the Groups former Specialty Coatings Systems business and a profit of 2.7m arising in relation to additional consideration receivable in respect of the disposal of the Groups Speedline business in 2003.
There was no tax charge or credit associated with the net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations in 2007 2006: nil.
Cookson Group plc 70 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 15.
NET POST-TAX LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS continued Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Operating activities 1.5 5.5 Investing activities 0.7 Financing activities 6.6 Total net cash flows 1.5 12.8 16.
DIVIDENDS 2007 2006 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 7.00p 2005: 5.00p per ordinary share 13.5 9.6 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 4.25p 2006: 3.00p per ordinary share 8.2 5.8 21.7 15.4 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 8.75p 2006: 7.00p per ordinary share 18.6 13.5 The proposed final dividend for the year of 8.75p 2006: 7.00p per ordinary share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 9 June 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 23 May 2008.
EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations 2007 operations operations 2006 pence pence pence pence pence pence Basic EPS 53.5 0.1 53.4 30.6 2.2 32.8 Diluted EPS 53.4 0.2 53.2 30.4 2.2 32.6 Headline EPS 54.4 0.1 54.3 42.6 4.0 46.6 Diluted headline EPS 54.3 0.1 54.2 42.3 4.0 46.3 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations 2007 operations operations 2006 m m m m m m Earnings for the purposes of calculating basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable to parent company equity holders 105.3 0.3 105.0 58.6 4.3 62.9 Adjustments: Rationalisation of operating activities 5.8 5.8 34.6 0.1 34.7 Profit relating to non-current assets 7.0 7.0 13.1 13.1 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 1.0 1.0 8.5 0.1 8.6 Loss on disposal of continuing operations 0.4 0.4 4.7 4.7 Net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations 0.1 0.1 3.3 3.3 Tax relating to exceptional items 3.5 3.5 5.3 5.3 Earnings for the purposes of headline EPS 107.0 0.2 106.8 81.6 7.6 89.2 Cookson Group plc 71 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS continued 2007 2006 Number of shares m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 196.7 191.5 Adjustments for dilutive weighted average number of shares relating to the Companys share schemes 0.5 1.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 197.2 192.8 For the purposes of calculating diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share, or increase loss per share, from continuing operations.
In addition to the 0.5m 2006: 1.3m shares shown in the table above as being dilutive, the Company has outstanding options in relation to its share option schemes that could dilute EPS in the future, but which are not included in the calculation of diluted EPS above because they were antidilutive in the years presented.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2007 2006 m m Profit from operations 171.6 145.2 Adjustments for: Rationalisation of operating activities 5.8 34.7 Profit relating to non-current assets 7.0 13.1 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 1.0 8.6 Depreciation 34.9 37.0 EBITDA 204.3 195.2 Increase in inventories 18.2 14.9 Increase in trade receivables 19.3 22.5 Decrease increase in trade payables 1.4 10.2 Decrease in other working capital balances 5.9 2.0 Net increase in trade and other working capital 44.8 29.2 Net outflows related to assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 1.5 7.2 Outflow related to rationalisation of operating activities 14.7 16.1 Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 28.1 25.5 Cash generated from operations 115.2 117.2 Cookson Group plc 72 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 19.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2007 2006 m m Short-term deposits 118.2 68.0 Cash at bank and in hand 49.2 43.9 Cash and short-term deposits 167.4 111.9 Bank overdrafts 14.2 6.9 Cash and cash equivalents in the Group statement of cash flows 153.2 105.0 20.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT Balance Balance as at Foreign as at 1 January exchange Acquired Non-cash 31 December 2007 adjustments debt movements Cash flow 2007 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents: Short-term deposits 68.0 0.5 49.7 118.2 Cash at bank and in hand 43.9 1.8 7.1 49.2 Bank overdrafts 6.9 0.1 7.2 14.2 49.6 Borrowings, excluding overdrafts: Current 97.4 2.2 2.4 93.0 4.6 Non-current 188.8 3.5 14.2 199.5 Capitalised borrowing costs 0.7 0.4 0.3 78.8 Net debt 180.5 4.3 2.4 0.4 128.4 50.6 Net debt is a measure that shows the Groups net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the total of cash and short-term deposits and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Cookson Group plc 73 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Leasehold Plant and Construction property property machinery in progress Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2006 127.6 22.8 472.8 10.2 633.4 Exchange adjustments 9.9 2.5 27.8 1.1 41.3 Additions capital expenditure 4.5 1.0 27.3 9.5 42.3 Disposals sales and scrappings 5.7 0.9 32.9 0.1 39.6 Disposals businesses 4.2 13.7 17.9 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 4.2 19.5 0.3 24.0 Reclassifications 2.3 1.7 2.0 6.0 As at 1 January 2007 110.4 22.1 408.2 12.2 552.9 Exchange adjustments 5.3 0.7 12.3 1.2 19.5 Additions capital expenditure 2.6 1.3 32.1 23.6 59.6 Additions businesses 1.2 2.9 4.1 Disposals sales and scrappings 4.1 4.7 22.3 0.1 31.2 Disposals businesses 0.2 0.2 Reclassifications 0.3 1.8 15.2 17.3 As at 31 December 2007 114.5 22.4 448.2 19.6 604.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses As at 1 January 2006 52.4 8.4 307.7 368.5 Exchange adjustments 3.6 1.4 18.5 23.5 Depreciation charge 3.1 1.3 32.6 37.0 Disposals sales and scrappings 0.2 0.8 24.0 25.0 Disposals businesses 1.1 6.3 7.4 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 2.5 16.6 19.1 Reclassifications 0.4 1.2 1.6 As at 1 January 2007 48.5 8.7 273.3 330.5 Exchange adjustments 3.9 3.8 7.7 Depreciation charge 2.1 1.3 31.5 34.9 Disposals sales and scrappings 0.4 2.8 19.8 23.0 Disposals businesses 0.1 0.1 Reclassifications 1.0 1.0 As at 31 December 2007 55.1 7.2 287.7 350.0 Net book value as at 31 December 2007 59.4 15.2 160.5 19.6 254.7 Net book value as at 31 December 2006 61.9 13.4 134.9 12.2 222.4 Net book value as at 1 January 2006 75.2 14.4 165.1 10.2 264.9 The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 was not material.
Cookson Group plc 74 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 22.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill m Cost As at 1 January 2006 481.6 Exchange adjustments 43.7 Disposals businesses 4.2 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 4.7 As at 1 January 2007 429.0 Exchange adjustments 1.4 Acquisitions businesses 3.7 Disposals businesses 0.5 As at 31 December 2007 430.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses As at 1 January 2006, 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2007 Net book value as at 31 December 2007 430.8 Net book value as at 31 December 2006 429.0 Net book value as at 1 January 2006 481.6 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units for this purpose are the business segments disclosed in note 6, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored.
For the cash-generating units shown below, the carrying amount of goodwill is significant in relation to the Groups total carrying amount of goodwill: 2007 2006 m m Ceramics 181.5 182.4 Electronics Chemistry 172.0 173.0 Other cash-generating units 77.3 73.6 Total goodwill 430.8 429.0 Impairment testing For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of the Groups cash-generating units is determined from valuein-use calculations.
In assessing goodwill for potential impairment as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006, the Directors have made use of the most recent detailed calculations of the recoverable amount of the Groups cash-generating units, prepared as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2005 respectively.
Those calculations resulted in an amount that exceeded the carrying values of the cash-generating units.
In the assessment undertaken in 2007, value in use was derived from discounted 5-year cash flow projections.
In preparing the 5-year projections at 31 December 2007, the anticipated impact of market price trends and expected growth in output within the industries in which each major Group business unit operates, were taken into account.
A growth rate of 3% was used in the years beyond the projection period, which was in line with the long-term forecast GDP growth rates for the regions in which the Group operates.
Pre-tax discount rates were estimated reflecting market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each cash-generating unit and were 12.5% for Ceramics, 13.4% for Assembly Materials, 11.3% for Chemistry and 12.9% for Precious Metals.
Cookson Group plc 75 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES The principal joint venture of the Group, in which it has a 50% interest, is Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd.
The Groups interests in its joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts relating to these interests were as follows: 2007 2006 m m Share of current assets 20.6 17.2 Share of non-current assets 0.1 Share of current liabilities 4.8 5.4 Share of non-current liabilities 1.6 0.3 As at 31 December 14.2 11.6 Share of revenue 65.2 57.7 Share of post-tax profit 1.7 1.4 24.
INVESTMENTS 2007 2006 m m Available-for-sale investments 16.3 15.8 Available-for-sale investments principally comprise assets held in Rabbi Trusts and listed equity securities, which are accounted for in accordance with the policies in note 3.19 c. The Rabbi Trust assets are held to fund certain non-qualified US pension plan obligations and are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the windingup of the Group company in which they are held.
DEFERRED TAX Accelerated Other capital Tax Pension timing allowances losses costs Goodwill differences Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2006 5.8 12.6 0.1 11.7 1.8 6.6 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 1.8 0.3 1.5 Credit charge to income statement 3.7 6.1 1.8 3.1 1.7 5.4 As at 1 January 2007 1.9 6.3 1.9 13.0 3.8 10.5 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.5 Charge to statement of recognised income & expense 0.2 0.1 0.3 Charge to income statement note 14 1.0 3.2 0.5 2.8 1.2 4.3 As at 31 December 2007 1.0 3.2 1.3 15.8 2.3 14.6 2007 2006 m m Deferred tax assets 8.9 11.3 Deferred tax liabilities 23.5 21.8 Net total deferred tax liabilities 14.6 10.5 Cookson Group plc 76 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 25.
DEFERRED TAX continued The total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2007 was 353.1m 2006: 352.4m.
This consisted of 52.1m 2006: 58.3m relating to capital losses, 146.7m 2006: 141.5m relating to operating losses, 70.7m 2006: 68.9m relating to unrelieved interest, 73.2m 2006: 70.6m relating to other categories and 13.1m 2006: 13.1m relating to UK ACT tax credits.
In accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.10, these items have not been recognised in the above analysis on the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable.
In total, there was an increase of 0.7m 2006: decrease of 43.2m in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during the year.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of 149.9m 2006: 147.8m.
This total includes 62.8m 2006: 62.9m for losses which are available to offset future taxable US income, of which approximately 6.0m 2006: 6.0m will expire in 2020 and the remainder will expire between 2022 and 2027.
A further 70.0m 2006: 63.2m of losses are available to offset future UK taxable income and may be carried forward without time limit.
The remaining losses with a value of 17.1m 2006: 21.7m include 11.7m 2006: 18.6m which may be carried forward indefinitely and 5.4m 2006: 3.1m which has a maximum life of between 7 and 9 years.
The amounts arise in a number of countries and are not individually significant, reflecting the spread of the Groups operations.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had US unrelieved interest with a tax value of 70.7m 2006: 68.9m, which may be carried forward indefinitely.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had UK capital losses carried forward with a tax value of 52.1m 2006: 58.3m.
These losses are available to offset future UK capital gains and may be carried forward without time limit.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had total US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 7.5m 2006: 6.8m.
This includes 2.0m 2006: 2.0m of research and experimentation credits which expire between 2018 and 2027 and 5.5m 2006: 4.8m of foreign tax credits expiring between 2009 and 2016.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had UK ACT tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 13.1m 2006: 13.1m, which may be carried forward indefinitely.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 107.3m 2006: 81.0m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2007 2006 m m Non-current: Other receivables 7.6 9.8 2007 2006 Gross Impairment Net Gross Impairment Net m m m m m m Current: Trade receivables current 222.2 0.6 221.6 195.3 0.8 194.5 1-30 days past due 50.0 0.7 49.3 44.8 1.0 43.8 31-60 days past due 15.9 0.7 15.2 14.5 0.7 13.8 61-90 days past due 6.1 0.6 5.5 5.3 0.6 4.7 over 90 days past due 23.8 15.5 8.3 19.7 12.8 6.9 Trade receivables 318.0 18.1 299.9 279.6 15.9 263.7 Other receivables 34.3 22.6 Prepayments and accrued income 21.7 16.7 Total current receivables 355.9 303.0 All of the Groups operating companies have policies and procedures in place to ensure the creditworthiness of the customers with which they do business.
However, where objective evidence exists that a trade receivable balance may be impaired, provision is made for the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash that will be recovered.
Impairment provisions are assessed on an individual customer basis for all significant outstanding balances and collectively for all remaining balances based upon historical loss experience.
Historical experience has shown that the Groups trade receivable provisions are maintained at levels that are sufficient to absorb actual bad debt write-offs without being excessive.
Cookson Group plc 77 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are shown in the table below.
2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 15.9 21.2 Exchange adjustments 1.0 0.3 Provision for receivables impairment 4.1 3.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.4 6.9 Unused amounts reversed 2.5 1.2 As at 31 December 18.1 15.9 Impairment provisions, write-offs and the reversal of unused amounts shown in the table above are charged or credited as appropriate within administration, selling and distribution costs in the Group income statement.
In determining the level of impairment provisions required, the Groups operating companies initially review all significant trade receivable balances on an individual basis for evidence of impairment.
Evidence of impairment may include such factors as the customer being in breach of contract, or entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation proceedings.
Of the total provision for impairment of trade receivables at 31 December 2007 of 18.1m 2006: 15.9m shown in the table above, 14.8m 2006: 15.3m related to balances that were impaired on an individual basis.
The ageing analysis of these individually impaired balances is shown in the table below.
2007 2006 m m Ageing analysis of individually impaired trade receivable balances: Current 0.8 1-30 days past due 0.2 0.9 31-60 days past due 0.6 0.7 61-90 days past due 0.5 0.6 Over 90 days past due 13.5 12.3 14.8 15.3 Due to the large number of customers that the Group transacts its business with, none of which represent a significant proportion of the total outstanding trade receivables balance, the Group is not exposed to any significant concentration of credit risk.
Cookson Group plc 78 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 27.
INVENTORIES 2007 2006 m m Raw materials 80.8 67.0 Work-in-progress 25.6 23.3 Finished goods 95.0 80.9 Total inventories 201.4 171.2 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales in the income statement during the year was 797.6m 2006: 797.4m.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held precious metals on consignment terms with a total value as at 31 December 2007 of 344.1m 2006: 236.6m.
As at 31 December 2007, metal held under consignment comprised 696,801 ounces of gold 2006: 564,148 ounces, 4,786,206 ounces of silver 2006: 6,063,106 ounces, 18,981 ounces of platinum 2006: 17,746 ounces and 19,974 ounces of palladium 2006: 16,022 ounces.
The Group also held precious metals on behalf of customers for processing, the value of which as at 31 December 2007 was 83.0m 2006: 84.4m.
The Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant amounts of precious metals, being primarily gold by value.
These metals are predominantly held on consignment under arrangements the terms of which provide, inter alia, that the consignor retains title to the metal and has a right of return over the metal without penalty.
Consignors are party to either committed or uncommitted arrangements.
Under uncommitted arrangements, the consignor is under no obligation to supply the precious metal to the Groups fabrication operations and has the right, with limited or in some cases no notice, to demand physical return of the consigned metal.
The metal which the Group fabricates for its customers may be purchased by the Group from the consignor and sold concurrently to the customer, or may be consigned or sold directly from the consignor to the Groups customers, with the Group charging customers only for the fabrication process.
Both of these methods used to supply metal for fabrication by the Group eliminate the Groups exposure to the risk of market fluctuations in metals prices.
As the consignors retain title and associated risks and benefits of ownership under these arrangements, the physical metal so held is not recorded in the Group balance sheet.
Consignment fees are charged by the consignor and totalled 3.8m in 2007 2006: 4.2m.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2007 2006 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Net investment hedges 0.2 1.5 1.6 5.9 Cash flow hedges 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.2 Fair value hedges 0.4 Total derivative financial instruments 0.3 2.3 1.7 6.1 Derivative financial instruments in the table above are reported at their fair value at the balance sheet date and comprise forward foreign exchange contracts and forward sales and purchase contracts.
They are designated as either net investment hedges, cash flow hedges or fair value hedges and are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies in note 4.2.
None of the hedges in the table above are speculative in nature and all of them are expected to mature within a year of the balance sheet date.
Cookson Group plc 79 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 28.1 NET INVESTMENT HEDGES The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to synthetically change the currency profile of its borrowings to more closely match the currency profile of the net assets of its foreign operations.
Such contracts are designated as net investment hedges, as they mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arises as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates.
28.2 CASH FLOW HEDGES In its operations the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to provide a hedge against the cash flow risk associated with certain highly probable forecast transactions.
Such contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are used in relation to the forecast sale of goods and purchase of raw materials in order to provide a hedge against the variability in cash flows that might otherwise arise as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates.
28.3 FAIR VALUE HEDGES In its operations the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as fair value hedges, to provide a hedge against the risk of changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies that might otherwise arise as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE On 18 December 2006, the Group entered into an agreement with RHI AG to sell Monofrax Inc. Monofrax, a US-based manufacturer of fused-cast refractory products representing a separate major line of business within the Ceramics division.
The transaction was completed 1 February 2007, and accordingly, the related assets and liabilities of Monofrax were classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2006.
No such disposals were planned at the current balance sheet date.
2007 2006 m m Assets held for sale: Property, plant and equipment 5.6 Intangible assets 4.7 Inventories 5.0 Trade and other receivables 3.3 Total assets held for sale 18.6 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale: Employee benefits 3.4 Trade and other payables 2.4 Total liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 5.8 Cookson Group plc 80 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 30.
SHARE CAPITAL 10p ordinary shares 49p deferred shares 2007 2006 2007 2006 Authorised number of shares m m m m As at 1 January 1,935.0 1,935.0 727.6 Reduction of capital 727.6 As at 31 December 1,935.0 1,935.0 10p ordinary shares 49p deferred shares Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Authorised value of shares m m m m m m As at 1 January 193.5 193.5 356.5 193.5 550.0 Reduction of capital 356.5 356.5 As at 31 December 193.5 193.5 193.5 193.5 10p ordinary shares 49p deferred shares 2007 2006 2007 2006 Issued and fully paid number of shares m m m m As at 1 January 193.4 190.4 727.6 Reduction of capital 727.6 Shares issued in the year 19.2 3.0 As at 31 December 212.6 193.4 10p ordinary shares 49p deferred shares Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Issued and fully paid value of shares m m m m m m As at 1 January 19.3 19.0 356.5 19.3 375.5 Reduction of capital 356.5 356.5 Shares issued in the year 2.0 0.3 2.0 0.3 As at 31 December 21.3 19.3 21.3 19.3 Cookson Group plc 81 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
SHARE CAPITAL continued In October 2007, the Company issued 18,583,519 new 10p ordinary shares through a share placing at a price of 825p per ordinary share.
The issue raised 150.6m net of issue costs.
During the year, the Company issued 621,008 new 10p ordinary shares in connection with its share option schemes.
The cancellation of the deferred shares became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of the order of the High Court with the Registrar of Companies, at which date the balance of 356.5m on the account became a non-distributable reserve of the Company reported within other reserves note 15 to the Company financial statements.
This reserve becomes distributable only at such time when all external creditors of the Company as at 15 February 2006 have either been fully settled, or have agreed that this reserve may be deemed distributable.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to entitlement to the Companys residual assets.
SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT m As at 1 January 2006 645.5 Cancellation of share premium 646.9 Arising on exercise of share options 7.7 As at 1 January 2007 6.3 Arising on exercise of share options 1.7 As at 31 December 2007 8.0 The 2006 cancellation of the share premium account became effective on 15 February 2006 upon registration of the order of the High Court with the Registrar of Companies, at which date the balance of 646.9m on the account became a nondistributable reserve of the Company reported within other reserves note 15 to the Company financial statements.
OTHER RESERVES Investment Hedging revaluation Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m As at 1 January 2006 4.8 33.0 37.8 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 80.3 80.3 Net investment hedges 25.3 25.3 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 As at 1 January 2007 5.0 22.0 17.0 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 26.2 26.2 Net investment hedges 10.1 10.1 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 1.0 1.0 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 2007 0.3 6.0 5.9 0.2 Cookson Group plc 82 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 32.
OTHER RESERVES continued Hedging reserve Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction see 28.2 above, the effective part of the gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within the hedging reserve.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
Investment revaluation reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried in the Group balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in fair value from one balance sheet date to the next are recorded in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax.
When the investment is derecognised the cumulative amount relating to it in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax, is recognised in the income statement.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the equity holders of the parent company that arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of financial instruments that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
In addition to foreign exchange differences attributable to the equity holders of the parent company, the Group statement of recognised income and expense also includes foreign exchange differences attributable to minority interests note 34.
RETAINED EARNINGS Share Other Total Treasury option retained retained shares reserve earnings earnings m m m m As at 1 January 2006 12.4 5.5 602.9 609.8 Profit for the year 62.9 62.9 Actuarial gain on employee benefit plans 21.8 21.8 Recognition of share-based payments 2.4 2.4 Disposal of treasury shares 4.0 3.1 0.9 Release of share option reserve on exercised options 3.3 3.3 Reduction of capital note 30 - 356.5 356.5 Cancellation of share premium note 31 646.9 646.9 Dividends paid 15.4 15.4 As at 1 January 2007 8.4 4.6 470.0 466.2 Profit for the year 105.0 105.0 Actuarial gain on employee benefit plans 23.5 23.5 Recognition of share-based payments 3.4 3.4 Arising from issue of shares 148.8 148.8 Disposal of treasury shares 3.1 3.1 Release of share option reserve on exercised options 2.2 2.2 Income tax on items recognised directly in equity 0.3 0.3 Dividends paid 21.7 21.7 As at 31 December 2007 5.3 5.8 724.4 724.9 The Treasury shares shown in the table above are ordinary shares of 10p each of the Company and are held by Cookson Investments Jersey Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP note 15 to the Company financial statements.
In October 2007, the Company issued 18,583,519 new 10p ordinary shares through a share placing.
A cash box structure was utilised to affect the share placing, as a result of which Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 applied to the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the shares issued and consequently no share premium was recognised.
The excess net proceeds of 148.8m were recorded as a merger reserve that was subsequently transferred to retained earnings and which is available for distribution to shareholders.
Cookson Group plc 83 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34.
MINORITY INTERESTS 2007 2006 m m As at 1 January 9.4 12.7 Exchange adjustments 1.1 0.8 Minority interest in profit for the year 2.9 3.5 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 1.5 3.1 Acquisition of minority interest 2.9 As at 31 December 11.9 9.4 35.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued Capitalised borrowing costs, which have been recognised as a reduction in borrowings in the financial statements, amounted to 0.3m as at 31 December 2007 31 December 2006: 0.7m of which 0.3m 2006: 0.4m related to the senior loan notes and nil 2006: 0.3m related to the syndicated bank facility.
2007 2006 m m Present value of minimum finance lease obligations Due within one year 0.8 1.1 Due between one and five years 0.7 0.8 Total present value of minimum finance lease obligations 1.5 1.9 36.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 36.1 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market values discounted to current value.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing rates translated at year-end exchange rates.
2007 2006 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 18.0 18.0 103.2 104.5 Long-term portion of long-term borrowings 198.8 205.3 188.0 207.8 Obligations under finance leases 1.5 1.5 1.9 1.9 Capitalised borrowing costs 0.3 0.7 Gross borrowings before forward foreign exchange contracts 218.0 224.8 292.4 314.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.3 1.3 4.3 4.3 Gross borrowings after forward foreign exchange contracts 219.3 226.1 296.7 318.5 Cash and short-term deposits note 19 167.4 167.4 111.9 111.9 Net debt including forward foreign exchange contracts 51.9 58.7 184.8 206.6 Cookson Group plc 85 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 36.2 INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY PROFILE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The interest rate and currency profiles of the Groups borrowings are set out below.
The figures are shown after taking into account the current portion of the senior loan notes, which are included in floating rate financial liabilities, and the effect of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are used to manage the currency profile of the Groups net debt and which are shown separately from borrowings in the Group balance sheet.
Financial 2007 Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets Net cash and financial Fixed Floating short-term assets rate rate Total deposits liabilities m m m m m Sterling 7.8 7.8 89.8 82.0 United States Dollar 183.0 57.4 125.6 1.8 123.8 Euro 2.4 2.4 24.9 22.5 Chinese Renminbi 37.0 37.0 19.2 17.8 Japanese Yen 19.3 19.3 0.7 18.6 Other 27.2 27.2 31.0 3.8 As at 31 December 2007 183.0 36.3 219.3 167.4 51.9 Financial 2006 Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets Net cash and financial Fixed Floating short-term assets rate rate Total deposits liabilities m m m m m Sterling 4.4 4.4 50.1 45.7 United States Dollar 186.5 99.9 86.6 6.1 80.5 Euro 108.0 108.0 6.6 101.4 Chinese Renminbi 35.3 35.3 21.8 13.5 Japanese Yen 18.5 18.5 0.8 17.7 Other 43.9 43.9 26.5 17.4 As at 31 December 2006 186.5 110.2 296.7 111.9 184.8 The financial assets shown in the tables above attract floating rate interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate currency, less a margin.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at the interbank offered rate of the appropriate currency, plus a margin.
The fixed rate financial liabilities of 183.0m 2006: 186.5m have a weighted average interest rate of 7.9% 2006: 7.9% and a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 3.3 years 2006: 4.3 years.
Cookson Group plc 86 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 36.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 36.3 MARKET RISK CURRENCY RELATED The Group is exposed to currency risk in relation to the value of its financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than sterling see note 36.2 above, arising from fluctuations in exchange rates.
The table below shows the impact on the value of the Groups reported net financial liabilities of exchange rates either strengthening or weakening by 10% against sterling and the impact that this would have on the reported profit or loss and equity.
The Groups reported profit is not impacted by the effect of the changes in exchange rates on the value of its net financial liabilities, but equity would be 12.2m higher if sterling strengthened by 10% and 14.9m lower if sterling weakened by 10%.
Effect of sterling strengthening by 10% Effect of sterling weakening by 10% 2007 As reported Rates 10% Profit loss Equity Rates -10% Profit loss Equity Net financial assets liabilities: m m m m m m m Denominated in sterling 82.0 82.0 82.0 Not denominated in sterling 133.9 121.7 12.2 148.8 14.9 Total net financial liabilities 51.9 39.7 12.2 66.8 14.9 Effect of sterling strengthening by 10% Effect of sterling weakening by 10% 2006 As reported Rates 10% Profit loss Equity Rates -10% Profit loss Equity Net financial assets liabilities: m m m m m m m Denominated in sterling 45.7 45.7 45.7 Not denominated in sterling 230.5 209.5 21.0 256.1 25.6 Total net financial liabilities 184.8 163.8 21.0 210.4 25.6 36.4 MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RELATED a Cash flow risk Changes in market interest rates expose the Group to the risk of fluctuation in the cash flows relating to its financial assets and liabilities that attract interest at floating rates see note 36.2 above.
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007, a one percent increase in market interest rates would result in a reduction of 1.3m 2006: nil in both the annual net finance costs charged to the Group income statement and the net interest paid in the Group statement of cash flows, with no impact on the Groups equity.
Correspondingly, a one percent decrease in interest rates would result in an increase of 1.3m 2006: nil in both the annual net finance costs charged to the income statement and the net interest paid in the Group statement of cash flows, with no impact on the Groups equity.
b Fair value risk Changes in market interest rates expose the Group to the risk of fluctuation in the fair value of its financial assets and liabilities that attract interest at fixed rates.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are shown in note 36.1 above.
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007, a one percent increase in market interest rates would result in a 6.0m 2006: 8.6m decrease in the fair value of the Groups net debt including forward foreign exchange contracts and a one percent decrease in market interest rates would result in a 6.3m 2006: 9.0m increase in the fair value of the Groups net debt including forward foreign exchange contracts.
These fair value changes would have no impact upon the Groups reported profit or loss or equity.
Cookson Group plc 87 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 36.5 CURRENCY EXPOSURE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The table below shows the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency and which therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US Dollar Euro Renminbi Other Total m m m m m m Functional currency: Sterling 0.1 1.0 1.1 United States Dollar 2.1 0.6 0.4 23.6 0.7 24.0 Euro 0.6 0.7 2.2 2.3 Chinese Renminbi 0.1 5.8 1.7 7.2 3.2 Japanese Yen 0.2 0.2 Other 4.4 8.8 3.6 0.2 9.8 As at 31 December 2007 3.0 3.0 2.5 23.6 5.9 14.2 Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US Dollar Euro Renminbi Other Total m m m m m m Functional currency: Sterling 0.3 1.0 0.1 0.6 United States Dollar 0.3 0.6 0.3 Euro 1.1 2.3 0.5 1.7 Chinese Renminbi 0.1 3.0 0.3 0.9 1.7 Japanese Yen 1.0 0.1 1.1 Other 0.5 5.1 3.7 0.6 7.7 As at 31 December 2006 1.7 9.1 4.6 1.7 10.3 36.6 BORROWING FACILITIES As at 31 December 2007, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of 383.0m 2006: 478.5m, of which 187.0m 2006: 200.0m, due to expire in more than two years but not more than five years from the balance sheet date, were undrawn.
The Groups near-term borrowing requirements have been met by a committed syndicated bank facility of 200.0m 2006: 200.0m.
The facility is for a term of three years, with options to extend for a further two years.
On 1 March 2007, the Group exercised the last of these options to extend the facilitys maturity to 1 March 2010 on the same pricing and terms.
The facility is unsecured, with all security and guarantees under the previous facility being fully released.
Borrowings under the facility are for general corporate purposes.
Cookson Group plc 88 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 37.1 GROUP POST-RETIREMENT PLANS The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type, and accounts for them in accordance with IAS 19. a Defined contribution pension plans The Groups principal defined contribution plans are in the UK and the US and the assets of the plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The total expense for these plans in the income statement amounted to 7.7m 2006: 7.0m and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
b Defined benefit pension plans The Groups principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US.
The assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the plans beneficiaries.
The Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories, but these are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
The Group has one main defined benefit pension plan in the UK the UK Plan, which was closed to new entrants from 2004.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the UK Plan Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2006.
At that date, the market value of plan assets was 278.3m and this represented a funding level of 78% of the accrued plan benefits at the time using the projected unit method of valuation of 356.6m.
Calculated on a buy-out basis using an estimation of the cost of buying out the UK Plan benefits with an insurance company, the liabilities at that date were 475.7m, representing a funding level of 59%.
Following the full valuation of the UK Plan as at 31 December 2003, the Groups ordinary contributions were set at 11% of pensionable salaries.
From 1 January 2008, based on the latest full valuation, the Groups ordinary contributions have been set at 16.9% of pensionable salaries.
In addition to these ordinary contributions, in 2006 the Company agreed with the UK Plan Trustee a repayment schedule which provided for additional funding payments of 26.5m per annum from 2007 to 2010, with the aim of eliminating the UK Plan deficit by 2011.
This repayment schedule has been reconfirmed by the Company and the UK Plan Trustee in March 2008.
The Company monitors the UK Plan funding level on a regular basis and will continue to review annually with the UK Plan Trustee the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
The next full triennial valuation is due as at 31 December 2009.
The US has a number of defined benefit plans, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit.
In addition, the Groups US Retirement Security Plan has characteristics similar to defined contribution plans but with a minimum performance level guaranteed by the Group on the members accounts.
The cash balance rate assumption in the table in note 37.2 b refers to the assumed minimum guaranteed return on members accounts.
From early in 2007, the Retirement Security Plan and the largest of the Groups other US defined benefit plans were closed to new members and also to future benefit accrual for existing members.
Existing plan members are, in each case, being provided with future pension benefit through a defined contribution arrangement.
Actuarial valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2006.
At that date the market value of the plan assets was 58.9m, representing a funding level of 60% of accrued plan benefits at that date using the projected unit method of valuation of 98.7m.
Funding levels for the Groups US defined benefit pension plans are normally based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and are governed by US government regulations.
c Other post-retirement defined benefit plans The Groups principal defined employee benefit plans other than pensions are healthcare benefit plans in the US and UK.
As is common for these types of plan, the costs of providing these benefits are not funded externally by the Group.
37.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK MITIGATION The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The discount rate used to determine the liabilities of the UK Plan for IAS 19 accounting purposes is required to be a corporate bond yield.
As described in note 37.2 c below, the UK Plan operates a hedging strategy, using a combination of swaps and money market instruments, to mitigate the impact of interest rate and inflation rate movements on the value of its projected liabilities for meeting future pension payments the UK Plans economic liabilities, the value of which is related more to interest rate and inflation rate swap yields than to corporate bond yields.
When the relationship between the relevant swap yields and corporate bond yields is stable, the UK Plans hedging strategy should deliver a broadly stable funding ratio the ratio of plan assets to plan liabilities not just in relation to the UK Plans economic liabilities, but also under an IAS 19 basis of valuation.
However, should corporate bond yields increase significantly above swap yields, as was the case during the second half of 2007, then the IAS 19 value of the UK Plans liabilities will be reduced to a greater extent than will the value of the actual underlying economic liabilities.
As at 31 December 2007, this divergence in yields had the effect of reducing the Groups UK Plan IAS 19 deficit by some 39m compared with the deficit based on the UK Plans economic liabilities.
The Company continues to fund the UK Plan with reference to its economic funding position.
Cookson Group plc 89 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK MITIGATION continued a Mortality assumptions The mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the Groups UK and US defined benefit pension liabilities have been strengthened since 31 December 2006 to assume that pension plan members have a longer life expectancy.
The assumptions used are summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans.
For the UK Plan, the assumptions used have been derived by adjusting the standard mortality tables which reflect recent research into mortality experience in the UK.
The assumptions are based on PA 92 tables projected forward with adjustments to reflect i the medium cohort improvement factors: ii a minimum level, or underpin, to the amount by which life expectancy is expected to improve at each age in the future, which has the effect of increasing the life expectancy at age 65 by some 0.5 years for someone currently aged 65 and by up to 2 years for someone currently aged 45: and iii the latest available trend information which indicates that life expectancy relating, in particular, to blue collar workers may not be improving as quickly as indicated by the standard tables.
As regards the latter adjustment, based on an analysis of the mix of blue and white collar workers in the UK Plan and on the results of a recent investigation carried out on the mortality experience in the UK Plan, the UK assumptions have been adjusted using a scaling factor of 112% to reflect a lower level of life expectancy amongst the blue collar membership.
The assumptions used in the 2006 valuation were based on the PA 92 tables combined with the medium cohort improvement factors and a scaling factor of 112% i. e. adjustments i and iii above.
For the Groups US plans, the assumptions used have been based on the standard RP2000CH mortality tables, projected 64 years for non-pensioners 2006: 40 years and 33 years for pensioners 2006: 25 years using projection scale AA.
The change in the US assumptions broadly mirrors the same level of improvement as made to the UK assumptions in 2007.
2007 2006 UK US UK US Life expectancy of UK and US pension plan members years years years years Age to which current pensioners are expected to live: Men 86.3 84.6 85.8 84.0 Women 89.0 86.9 88.6 86.4 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live: Men 88.2 86.6 86.5 85.1 Women 90.3 89.1 89.3 87.8 b Other principal actuarial valuation assumptions 2007 2006 UK US UK US % p. a.
Discount rate 5.82 6.29 5.12 5.89 Price inflation 3.40 2.50 3.10 2.50 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.40 n a 4.10 3.60 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.40 n a 3.10 n a Cash balance rate n a 5.25 n a 5.25 Long-term rate of return equities 8.10 8.80 8.20 8.30 bonds n a 5.70 n a 5.30 money market instruments and swaps 4.80 n a 4.80 n a Healthcare cost trend rate long-term 3.20 6.00 4.10 6.00 next year 3.20 10.00 8.00 11.00 The UK discount rate is based on the annualised yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA-rated sterling corporate bond index.
The US discount rate is based on the equivalent iBoxx index for US domestic corporations.
The assumptions for price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and index-linked bonds.
The overall expected rate of return on plan assets reflects market expectations at the valuation date of long-term asset returns and the mix of assets in the plans.
Cookson Group plc 90 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK MITIGATION continued c UK pension plan risk mitigation strategy In 2006, the Company and the UK Plan Trustee undertook an initiative to consider how best to manage the UK Plans exposure to major investment risks.
The following were deemed to be the major investment risks which could affect the value of the UK Plans assets compared to the value of its economic liabilities: Interest rate risk the risk of government bond interest rates falling, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
Inflation risk the risk of inflation rising faster than expected, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
Equity market risk the risk of significant equity market falls, leading to a fall in the value of plan assets.
In order to mitigate these key risks, the Trustee has entered into the following financial derivative arrangements: Interest rate swaps the UK Plan receives a fixed rate of interest and pays out a variable rate of interest, based on the London Inter Bank Offered Rate LIBOR.
This is beneficial when long-term interest rates fall, significantly offsetting the corresponding increase in the value of the UK Plans economic liabilities.
Inflation swaps the UK Plan pays out a fixed rate of interest of around 3% per annum and receives payments linked to actual inflation.
This is beneficial when inflation increases faster than expected and significantly offsets the corresponding increase in the value of the UK Plans economic liabilities.
Equity derivatives using a combination of equity derivatives, the UK Plan has bought protection against the first 20% fall in equity market prices over the four year period from 1 December 2006.
To pay for this protection, the UK Plan foregoes any equity market price returns above about 6.5% per annum, but will continue to receive dividend payments and the benefit of any active management out-performance of its equity managers respective benchmark.
The interest rate and inflation swaps entered into were designed to mitigate interest rate and inflation risk for approximately 80% of the UK Plans liabilities.
This investment strategy has led to a large reduction in the risk that the value of the UK Plans assets falls materially relative to the value of its economic liabilities.
d Sensitivity analysis of key actuarial assumptions used The following table analyses, for the Groups UK and US pension plans, the theoretical estimated impact on plan liabilities resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions used for IAS 19 valuation purposes, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
It should be noted that the investment strategy adopted by the UK Plan, details of which are given above, was designed to mitigate a significant majority of the interest rate and inflation risk related to the UK Plans economic liabilities.
The stabilising impact of this strategy is not reflected in the following table.
Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in key IAS 19 actuarial assumptions Assumption Change in assumption Impact on UK plan liabilities Impact on US plan liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 1.6% Decrease increase by 1.1% Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 1.4% n a Mortality Increase by one year Increase by 3.1% Increase by 2.8% With regard to the Groups post-retirement healthcare benefit plans, a one percent increase in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions shown in the table in note 37.2 b would increase the accumulated post-employment medical benefit obligation by 0.1m without changing the post-employment medical benefit costs and a one percent decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions would reduce the obligation by 0.1m without changing the post-employment medical benefit costs.
Cookson Group plc 91 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.3 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION The liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans for IAS 19 accounting purposes are measured by discounting the best estimate of the future cash flows to be paid out by the plans using the projected unit method, in which the calculation of plan liabilities makes allowance for projected increases in benefit-related earnings.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.4 PLAN ASSETS 2007 2006 UK US ROW Total UK US ROW Total m m m m m m m m Fair value as at 1 January 277.3 58.9 15.4 351.6 245.5 65.7 13.8 325.0 Exchange differences 1.1 0.8 0.3 8.4 0.4 8.8 Expected return on assets 18.1 3.9 0.6 22.6 14.6 4.4 0.6 19.6 Settlements 2.0 2.0 1.6 1.6 Disposals 4.3 4.3 Actuarial gains losses 2.1 0.9 2.1 0.9 2.4 0.5 2.9 Contributions from employer 34.7 4.3 3.8 42.8 28.6 9.1 2.4 40.1 Contributions from members 1.4 0.1 1.5 1.6 0.1 1.7 Benefits paid 15.5 5.3 1.2 22.0 13.0 7.9 1.6 22.5 Transferred to held for sale 4.8 4.8 Fair value as at 31 December 318.1 55.5 15.4 389.0 277.3 58.9 15.4 351.6 a UK Plan asset allocation As at 31 December 2007, the UK Plans assets were allocated 47% in equities of which 50% were UK and 50% overseas : 39% in money market instruments combined with interest rate and inflation swaps: 4% in infrastructure investments and 10% in absolute return funds.
The UK Plan Trustees target allocation currently provides for money market instruments to move to 40% of the UK Plans assets and for 10% of its assets to be held in each of infrastructure investments and absolute return funds, with 40% to be held in equities.
The infrastructure and absolute return assets have been introduced to reduce further the exposure to equity market risk and to provide an alternative source of return which is not highly correlated with equity markets.
The swaps held in combination with the money market instruments typically AAA-rated, very short-term debt provide an exposure similar to holding gilts and are in addition to the interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and equity derivatives in place as part of the risk mitigation strategy described at 37.2 c. b US pension plan assets not recognised above In addition to the assets reported above, 9.2m 2006: 8.3m of assets were held as at 31 December 2007 to fund certain non-qualified US pension plan obligations note 24.
These assets are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held and are reported as investments in the Group balance sheet.
c Defined benefit contributions in 2008 The Group is expected to make aggregate contributions into its defined benefit pension plans of 36.5m in 2008.
This includes a special funding contribution of 26.5m into the UK Plan, although the level of this contribution is expected to be reviewed with the UK Plan Trustee during the course of 2008.
The Group is also expected to make aggregate contributions in respect of its other post-retirement benefit plans of 1.8m in 2008.
Cookson Group plc 93 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.5 BALANCE SHEET RECOGNITION The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans for IAS 19 accounting purposes is as follows: Other postDefined benefit pension plans retirement benefit 2007 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Equities 151.5 55.5 207.0 207.0 Bonds 0.3 0.3 0.3 Money market instruments and swaps 153.4 153.4 153.4 Other 13.2 15.1 28.3 28.3 Fair value of plan assets 318.1 55.5 15.4 389.0 389.0 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 343.4 71.1 24.6 439.1 439.1 25.3 15.6 9.2 50.1 50.1 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans 0.7 19.0 4.8 24.5 21.5 46.0 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 26.0 34.6 14.0 74.6 21.5 96.1 Defined benefit pension plans Other postretirement 2006 UK US ROW Total benefit plans Total m m m m m m Equities 174.3 38.7 1.4 214.4 214.4 Bonds 20.2 1.5 21.7 21.7 Money market instruments and swaps 101.5 101.5 101.5 Other 1.5 12.5 14.0 14.0 Fair value of plan assets 277.3 58.9 15.4 351.6 351.6 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 354.9 77.9 22.5 455.3 455.3 77.6 19.0 7.1 103.7 103.7 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefit plans 0.7 20.8 6.5 28.0 23.4 51.4 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 78.3 39.8 13.6 131.7 23.4 155.1 37.6 INCOME STATEMENT RECOGNITION The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement benefit plans is as follows: Defined Defined benefit Other postbenefit Other postpension retirement 2007 pension retirement 2006 plans benefit plans Total plans benefit plans Total m m m m m m Current service cost 5.5 0.2 5.7 8.2 0.6 8.8 Interest on obligation 24.5 1.1 25.6 24.5 1.6 26.1 Expected return on plan assets 22.6 22.6 19.6 19.6 Curtailment losses gains 0.5 0.1 0.6 6.0 2.6 8.6 Settlement losses 0.3 0.3 Disposals 1.0 1.0 Total expense 6.9 1.4 8.3 7.4 0.4 7.0 The actual return on plan assets was 21.7m 2006: 22.5m.
Cookson Group plc 94 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 37.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 37.6 INCOME STATEMENT RECOGNITION continued The total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement benefit plans is recognised in the following lines: 2007 2006 m m Other manufacturing costs 2.5 4.7 Administration, selling and distribution costs 2.8 4.1 Rationalisation of operating activities 2.0 Curtailment gains relating to employee benefits 1.0 8.6 Finance costs 25.6 26.1 Finance income 22.6 19.6 Loss on disposal of continuing operations 1.0 Net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations 0.3 Total expense 8.3 7.0 Of the total net curtailment loss for the year of 0.6m 2006: 8.6m gain, 0.4m 2006: nil has been credited within administration, selling and distribution costs, 2.0m 2006: nil has been charged within rationalisation of operating activities and 1.0m 2006: 8.6m has been reported as curtailment gains relating to employee benefits.
The curtailment gain relating to employee benefits of 1.0m in the year arose in relation to the UK post-retirement medical plan, resulting from a reduction in the Groups costs of providing benefits under the plan.
The 8.6m gain in 2006 resulted from reductions in liabilities arising from the closure of the Groups two largest US defined benefit pension plans to new members and the freezing of benefits for existing members, together with reductions in the level of benefits provided through certain of the Groups US post-retirement healthcare plans.
37.7 HISTORY The history of the fair value of the plan assets, the present value of defined benefit obligations, the deficit in the plans and the experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are shown below: Defined benefit pension plans Other post-retirement benefit plans 2007 2006 2005 2004 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 389.0 351.6 325.0 274.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations 463.6 483.3 517.8 433.2 21.5 23.4 32.0 31.2 Deficit 74.6 131.7 192.8 158.7 21.5 23.4 32.0 31.2 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 0.3 23.1 6.4 10.7 0.1 2.2 0.7 1.8 Experience losses gains on plan assets 0.9 2.9 23.4 11.4 The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense is 22.6m 2006: 46.1m.
Cookson Group plc 95 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 38.1 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES The Group operates a number of different share-based payment schemes: the main features of each scheme are outlined below.
a Long-term incentive plan LTIP At the 2004 AGM of the Company, shareholders approved a new LTIP to replace the Mid-Term Incentive Plan MTIP and the executive share option schemes.
The LTIP has two elements.
Firstly, executives who are eligible receive a conditional annual allocation of shares worth up to a prescribed percentage of their base salary Performance Shares.
Secondly, executives who are eligible can elect to invest all or part of their annual incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Bonus Investment Shares in return for which they receive a conditional award of ordinary shares worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested Matching Shares.
In addition, for awards made after 7 March 2007, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares can vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
For awards made in 2005 and 2006, vesting is based upon the Groups three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to that of the companies of its comparator group, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2005 and 2006 LTIP awards will therefore be as follows: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares vesting ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below median 0% 0 Median 25% 0.5:1 Upper quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 In 2007, the Remuneration Committee broadened the performance condition by including headline EPS growth.
For awards made in 2007 and for future awards, vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based on the TSR performance measure described above and 50% on headline EPS the calculation of which is shown in note 17 growth over a three-year period.
The two measures will operate independently.
Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007 and 2008 LTIP awards will be based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares vesting ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below median 0% 0 Median 12.5% 0.25:1 Upper quintile top 20% 50% 1.125:1 Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007 and 2008 LTIP awards will be based on headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI, in accordance with the following schedule: Matching Shares vesting ratio Annual compound headline EPS growth above RPI Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below 3% 0% 0 3% 12.5% 0.25:1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125:1 Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 An executives Matching Shares award will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
The fair value of awards granted under the LTIP is measured using a stochastic pricing model.
Cookson Group plc 96 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 38.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 38.1 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES continued b Mid-term incentive plan MTIP Under the MTIP, executives were eligible to receive a bonus, paid partly in cash and partly in ordinary shares of the Company, the beneficial receipt of which was deferred for two years from the end of the performance period restricted shares, based upon the achievement of target financial performance measured over a three-year period.
Performance targets based on either the Groups cumulative profit or cumulative profit and cash flow performance were set by the Remuneration Committee for each three-year MTIP period.
The MTIP operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle culminated at the end of 2005.
The fair value of awards granted under the MTIP was measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
c Executive option schemes ESOS The last executive share option grant was made in 2003.
Under these schemes, share options were granted at the market price prevailing at the time of grant.
Options normally only became exercisable if the growth in headline earnings per share was at least equal to the increase in the RPI plus 3% per annum 2% per annum for options granted in 1995 and 1996 for a consecutive three year period.
The fair value of awards granted under the ESOS was measured using a stochastic pricing model.
d UK and international Sharesave schemes SAYE schemes The last grant under the SAYE schemes was made in 2004.
Under the SAYE schemes, employees had the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Group at a discounted price by using their savings together with an additional tax free bonus at the end of their saving period.
The schemes operated in conjunction with a three or five-year savings contract and options were granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the date of grant.
Employees who entered into these contracts had to make monthly savings of between 5 and 250.
The fair value of awards granted under the SAYE schemes was measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
e Deferred Bonus Plan DBP In 2007, the Company implemented a new Deferred Bonus Plan in place of the LTIP for certain corporate managers.
Under this plan, executives received an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
These shares will vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if their employment ceases in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
The executive Directors do not participate in this plan.
The fair value of awards granted under the DBP scheme was measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
f US Stock Purchase Plan USSPP The last grant under the USSPP was made in 2004.
An eligible employee who applied for an option under the USSPP agreed to savings being deducted from their net pay.
Regular deductions were made over a one-year period not more than US$5,000 in any year.
Shares were only acquired under the USSPP on exercise of the option using the savings together with interest on such savings.
The price payable for each ordinary share was the price in sterling determined by the Directors, provided that it was not less than 85% of the middle market quotation of the ordinary shares on the date of grant.
An option grant under the USSPP was exercisable not later than 18 months after the date of grant provided the option holder was still employed by the Group.
The fair value of awards granted under the USSPP was measured using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
g Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Due to the disadvantageous tax regime in Belgium, Belgian participants in the ESOS and SAYE schemes received SAR instead of share options.
These SAR were awarded under exactly the same rights and conditions as the share options, except that individuals received, in cash, the difference between the subscription price and market price of Cookson Group plc shares on the date of exercise, rather than having the right to purchase shares.
Cookson Group plc 97 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 38.2 IFRS 2 DISCLOSURES The Company has followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied it to those options that were granted after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
The following disclosures are only in respect of those options that fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
The exercise prices shown in the following tables are the weighted average exercise prices.
Outstanding options Options exercisable Earliest Latest As at 31 as at 31 year in year in Range of As at 1 Forfeited December December which which exercise January 2007 Granted Exercised lapsed 2007 2007 options options prices No.
The weighted average share price during 2007 was 702p 2006: 532p.
Outstanding options Options exercisable Earliest Latest As at 31 as at 31 year in year in Range of As at 1 Forfeited December December which which exercise January 2006 Granted Exercised lapsed 2006 2006 options options prices No.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 38.2 IFRS 2 DISCLOSURES continued The fair values of options granted in the year, together with the other inputs into the option pricing models, are shown below.
LTIP EPS TSR Options granted during 2007 DBP element element MTIP Fair value of options granted per share 635p 635p 324p Share price on date of grant per share 635p 635p 635p Expected volatility n a n a 31.9% Risk-free interest rate n a n a 5.4% Exercise price per share nil nil nil Expected term years 3.00 3.00 3.00 Expected dividend yield n a n a n a Share price volatility for options granted in 2007 is based upon weekly movements in the Companys share price over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award.
Options granted during 2006 LTIP MTIP Fair value of options granted per share 429p 504p Share price on date of grant per share 546p 513p Expected volatility 70.9% n a Risk-free interest rate 4.4% n a Exercise price per share nil nil Expected term years 3.00 1.75 Expected dividend yield 1.0% 1.0% Share price volatility for options granted in 2006 is based upon weekly movements in the Companys share price over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award and for an additional rolling five year period prior to that.
The total expense recognised in the income statement for each of the share-based payment schemes is shown in the table below, of which 3.4m 2006: 3.1m was charged within administration, distribution and selling costs and 0.1m 2006: nil was charged in arriving at net post-tax loss on disposal of operations.
2007 2006 m m LTIP 2.9 1.9 MTIP 0.4 0.3 ESOS 0.1 SAYE 0.1 0.1 DBP SAR 0.1 0.7 Total expense 3.5 3.1 The total intrinsic value at the end of the year for cash-settled share based payments that had vested was 0.3m 2006: 0.5m.
Cookson Group plc 99 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2007 2006 m m Non-current: Deferred purchase consideration 0.4 Accruals and other payables 12.6 19.5 Total non-current payables 13.0 19.5 Current: Trade payables 138.8 131.2 Other taxes and social security 30.4 22.9 Accruals and other payables 88.9 87.2 Deferred purchase consideration 0.5 0.6 Total current payables 258.6 241.9 Included within accruals and other payables are liabilities in respect of cash-settled share-based payments of 0.3m 2006: 0.5m.
PROVISIONS Disposal and closure Rationalisation costs costs Other Total m m m m As at 1 January 2007 27.2 19.3 8.7 55.2 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.1 0.5 Charged to income statement 6.6 2.1 2.4 11.1 Interest charged on unwinding discount 1.0 1.0 Cash spend 5.4 14.7 2.1 22.2 Reclassifications transfers 0.2 0.9 1.1 2.2 As at 31 December 2007 28.8 5.8 7.8 42.4 2007 2006 m m Analysed as: Non-current 24.5 22.5 Current 17.9 32.7 Total provisions 42.4 55.2 The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors current best estimates of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment of obligations undertaken in connection with former Group businesses, resulting from either disposal or closure, together with those related to the demolition and clean-up of closed sites.
The provision comprises amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims, including claims relating to product liability.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
The provision for rationalisation costs is used to manage the costs of all of the Groups initiatives to rationalise its operating activities.
The balance of 5.8m as at 31 December 2007 relates to future expenditure on rationalisation initiatives, the majority of which commenced in 2006 and 2007 and is expected to be spent over the course of the next two years after 2007.
Cookson Group plc 100 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 40.
PROVISIONS continued Other provisions comprise amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims.
Where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the Group balance sheet when its realisation is virtually certain.
At 31 December 2007, 6.4m was recorded in receivables in respect of associated insurance reimbursements, of which 4.7m is non-current.
The amounts reported in the table above as charged to the income statement represent only that part of the total income statement charge which should be reported as a movement on the relevant provisions, other components of which, such as asset write-offs, are reported within the relevant balance sheet line item.
ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES, NET OF CASH ACQUIRED During 2007, the Group acquired interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures for a total consideration of 14.1m.
The net assets acquired, consideration paid and goodwill arising are summarised in the table below.
The goodwill on acquisition of 3.7m is attributable to the operational synergies expected to result from the business combinations.
2007 Book Fair value value mm Net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 4.1 4.1 Non-current receivables 0.2 0.2 Trade working capital 5.8 5.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 0.9 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.4 2.4 Total net assets acquired 8.6 8.6 Goodwill on acquisition 3.7 Consideration payable for subsidiaries 12.3 Investment in joint ventures 1.8 Total consideration payable for subsidiaries and joint ventures 14.1 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.9 Deferred consideration 0.6 Consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 1.4 Net cash outflow 14.0 The businesses acquired in the year contributed revenue of 11.6m and trading profit of 0.9m to the Groups 2007 results.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2007, it is estimated that they would have contributed revenue of 41.8m and a trading loss of 0.5m.
During 2006, a total of 4.1m was paid, in cash, in respect of deferred consideration for subsidiaries acquired in prior years and the buy-out of a 49% minority shareholding in a Chinese subsidiary of the Electronics division.
Cookson Group plc 101 Annual Report 2007 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations 2007 operations operations 2006 m m m m m m Net consideration: Net proceeds received 1.5 19.3 20.8 14.5 51.7 66.2 Proceeds receivable 5.9 2.7 8.6 Disposal costs payable 1.1 5.1 6.2 5.9 1.1 7.0 Total net consideration 0.4 14.2 14.6 14.5 53.3 67.8 Assets and liabilities disposed of: Property, plant and equipment 10.5 10.5 Attributable goodwill 0.5 0.5 4.2 4.2 Interests in joint ventures and other investments 0.6 0.6 Trade working capital 1.3 1.3 3.9 3.9 Employee benefits 1.0 1.0 Assets previously classified as held for sale 18.6 18.6 88.3 88.3 Liabilities previously classified as held for sale 4.3 4.3 31.7 31.7 Net assets disposed of 0.8 14.3 15.1 19.2 56.6 75.8 Loss on disposal of operations 0.4 0.1 0.5 4.7 3.3 8.0 Net cash received from disposals: Net proceeds received 1.5 19.3 20.8 14.5 51.7 66.2 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 2.3 2.3 Proceeds received in relation to prior years disposals 2.1 2.5 4.6 3.8 3.8 Disposal costs paid in relation to prior years disposals 0.7 0.7 5.2 5.2 Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries 2.9 21.8 24.7 14.5 48.0 62.5 Recognition in the Group statement of cash flows: Within net outflows related to assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 3.1 3.1 Disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash disposed of 2.9 21.9 24.8 14.5 44.9 59.4 Within other investing outflows, including additional costs for prior years disposals 0.1 0.1 Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.9 21.8 24.7 14.5 48.0 62.5 Cookson Group plc 102 Annual Report 2007 OUR ACCOUNTS 43.
COMMITMENTS 2007 2006 m m Capital commitments: Contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 14.0 7.5 Operating lease commitments: The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: Not later than one year 11.3 12.0 Later than one year and not later than five years 29.9 29.2 Later than five years 67.0 70.0 Total operating lease commitments 108.2 111.2 44.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees of borrowings for the Group as at 31 December 2007 amounted to nil 2006: nil and guarantees under property leases of discontinued operations amounted to 3.2m 2006: 2.6m.
Details of guarantees given by the Company, on behalf of the Group, are given in note 19 to the Company financial statements.
The Group has extensive international operations and several companies within the Group are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the Group company involved.
While the outcome of litigation can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
Legal claims have been brought against Group companies by third parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous materials.
Two of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits in the US relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
To date, there have been no liability verdicts against either of these subsidiaries.
A number of lawsuits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled, and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
SUBSIDIARIES Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are given in note 7 to the Company financial statements.
RELATED PARTIES Transactions between Group subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
During the year, Group subsidiaries made sales of products and services to Group joint venture companies of 1.2m 2006: 1.2m and made purchases of goods and services from Group joint venture companies of 0.2m 2006: 0.6m.
As at 31 December 2007, amounts owed by the Groups joint ventures to Group subsidiaries was nil 2006: nil and amounts owed to Group joint ventures by Group subsidiaries was nil 2006: nil.
Details of related party information in relation to key management personnel are given in note 11.3.
Cookson Group plc 103 Annual Report 2007
