OUR ACCOUNTS GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS VISO Ceramics Brand name for  alumina-carbon products Enclosed continuous casting manufactured by the Ceramics division to control and protect the Method of pouring steel directly from its molten form into a slab, flow of molten metal from re-oxidation in the enclosed bloom or billets and thereby short-cutting secondary processing continuous casting steelmaking process.
Includes ladle shrouds, with associated cost savings.
During the process, steel is poured stoppers, subentry nozzles and tube changers.
VISO is a steel from a ladle into a tundish on top of the continuous caster.
As it flow control refractory.
flows from the tundish down into the casters mould, it solidifies into a ribbon of red-hot steel.
At the bottom of the caster, torches cut the continuously-flowing steel to form slabs, bloom or billets.
Electronics SACX Float glass process Brand name for proprietary low-silver content, lead-free solder.
Production method to produce flat glass for building, automotive and specialty products.
Glass is melted in a separate tank and Damascene copper flat glass is formed when molten glass is poured from the tank on Chemicals used to create nanoscale copper connections within to a bath of molten tin.
The glass then floats on the tin.
Following this, the glass sheet is progressively cooled in the annealing lehr which is a type of oven used to anneal glass and Epoxy moulding compounds then on fused silica rollers, as produced by Cookson.
A solid polymer that is heated to a liquid and injected over or under a PCB component for protection.
Glass tempering process Flat glass is transformed into toughened or tempered glass by Printed circuit board PCB being heated and then rapidly cooled.
This creates a surface A type of circuit board which has conducting tracks superimposed tension in the glass.
Tempered glass is six times stronger than or printed on one or both sides.
May refer to a board either ordinary glass.
When toughened glass is broken the tension is before or after the assembly process.
released, which causes the glass to shatter into less-harmful tiny fragments.
For this reason, toughened glass is specified for many PCB assembly applications where safety is an issue, including automotive and PCB assembly involves attaching components such as semiarchitectural applications.
The glass is carried on fused silica conductors and capacitors on to a fabricated board, together with rollers, as produced by Cookson, during its manufacture.
the required physical and electrical connections.
This has to be done with precise accuracy if the finished PCB is to function Monolithics effectively.
Refractory mixes in the form of castables, plastics and sprayed refractories used principally as a protective lining for ladles and Semi-conductor wafer tundishes.
Join-free application reduces heat loss, gas A semi-conductor wafer is a thin slice of semi-conducting permeability and thermal stress forces.
material, upon which microcircuits are constructed by doping, chemical etching, and deposition of various materials.
Refractory products linings Products which provide a heat protection in devices such as Solder steelmaking vessels, furnaces, kilns and ovens, allowing them to An alloy of tin and other metals with a comparatively low melting operate at extremely high temperatures without damaging their point, used to join less fusible metals.
They also protect the devices against damage caused by abrasion, pressure, chemical attack and rapid changes in Underfill temperature, as well as facilitating heat retention to allow the unit An adhesive that mechanically couples an electronic componentto operate more efficiently without major heat loss.
such as a chip-to a PCB to restrain most of the lateral movement between the component and the board.
The interconnect joints Slide-gate refractories are therefore protected and preserved.
Flow control refractories are used as valves between steelmaking vessels to control the flow of molten metal as it runs through the continuous casting process.
These products have to withstand extremely high temperatures and are consumables, sometimes Precious Metals used up in a matter of hours.
Cookson is the world leader in the Findings production of flow control products for the steel industry and Jewellery components such as pins, clasps, posts and clips.
supplies major steel mills worldwide.
Solar Crucible A Solar Crucible is a large fused silica ceramic crucible used for the melting and crystallisation of photovoltaic silicon.
Silicon ingots manufactured in these crucibles are then cut into blocks: blocks are sliced into wafers: and then wafers are used to make solar cells.
Cookson Group plc 119 Annual Report 2007 Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Printed by PUSH Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2007 Cookson Group plc 165 Fleet Street London EC4A 2AE Tel 44 0 20 7822 0000 Fax 44 0 20 7822 0100 www.
co. uk Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2007
