Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 60 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the fifteenth Annual General Meeting of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 10.00am on 5 February 2008, at Threadneedles Hotel, 5 Threadneedle Street, London, EC2R 8AY, to transact the following business: Ordinary Business 1.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2007.
To receive the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and the auditor for the year ended 30 September 2007.
To approve the payment of a final dividend of 12.6p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended 30 September 2007.
To re-elect Mr B V Souder, who retires by rotation.
To re-elect Mr P T Warry, who retires by rotation.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, and subject in the case of Resolution 8 to the passing of Resolution 7 pass the following resolutions, which in the case of Resolutions 7 and 10 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and in the case of Resolutions 8 and 9 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 7.
That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act in substitution for all existing authorities under the said section 80 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 277,529, provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 5 May 2009 and provided further that the Company may before such expiry make any offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry.
That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 1 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Directors in accordance with section 80 of the Act on 5 February 2008 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares notwithstanding that, by reason of such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or desirable to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange, in any territory, the equity securities to be issued are not offered to all such holders in proportion to the number of ordinary shares held by each of them and, b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 41,123: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 5 May 2009, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61 9.
That the Directors of the Company be authorised generally and unconditionally to exercise all powers of the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 3 of the Act of its ordinary shares of 1p each provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be acquired is 8,224,710: b the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 1p and, c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for an ordinary share according to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is contracted to take place: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 5 May 2009 but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter and a purchase of shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
That the Company may send or supply documents or information to members by making them available on a website or by other electronic means and this resolution shall supersede and modify any provision of the Companys Articles of Association to the extent it is inconsistent with this Resolution.
By order of the Board M W Peacock Company Secretary 10 December 2007 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 62 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Notes: 1 Members entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2 The register of Directors interests in the Companys shares, copies of the Directors service contracts and the Directors Deeds of Indemnity will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours excluding Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Meeting and at the place of the Meeting from fifteen minutes before the Meeting until its close.
3 In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Companys Register of Members at 7am on Monday 4 February 2008 will be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting and that the number of votes which any such shareholder may cast, upon a poll, will be determined by reference to the number of shares registered in such shareholders name at that time.
Explanatory Notes Ordinary Business Resolution 1 Approval of the Report on Directors Remuneration This resolution is proposed to approve the Report on Directors Remuneration as set out on pages 24 to 29.
Resolution 2 Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are under a duty in relation to each financial year to lay the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and auditor before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
Resolution 3 Declaration of dividend A final dividend of 12.6p per ordinary share payable on 3 March 2008 has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2007.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Resolutions 4 and 5 Re-election of Directors Mr B V Souder and Mr P T Warry will retire by rotation as Directors and will seek re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Biographical details of Directors seeking re-election are set out on page 18.
With regard to the non-executive Director seeking re-election, the Board considers that Peter Warry, who has been Chairman since 1999, has made a significant contribution to the Group bringing a wide range of experience from the industrial and scientific fields.
Resolution 6 Re-appointment of auditor auditors remuneration This resolution proposes the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and authorises the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63 Special Business Resolution 7 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares within the limits of the existing authorised share capital until the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting of the Company or 5 May 2009, if sooner.
The resolution will provide for the Directors to be able to allot shares up to a nominal amount of 277,529.
This represents less than one third of the issued share capital plus the number of shares that the Company may be obliged to allot under its share option schemes.
With the exception of shares to be issued in respect of share options exercised, the Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 8 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
This resolution will enable the Directors to allot for cash up to a nominal amount of 41,123, representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital, other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of these opportunities as and when they arise.
The Board confirms its intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be alloted on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period, in compliance with the guidelines issued by investors bodies.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 5 May 2009, if sooner.
Resolution 9 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 9 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this Notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase will be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, re-sold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 7 December 2007, options over a total of 2,080,803 ordinary shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of ordinary shares represents 2.53% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 7 December 2007.
It would represent 2.81% of the issued ordinary share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full at that date.
Resolution 10 Electronic communications with shareholders The Companies Act 2006 permits companies to communicate with their shareholders by means of a website if they have agreed or are deemed to have agreed to that method of communication.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority permit companies to communicate with shareholders electronically for example, by email or fax if they have agreed to that method of communication.
Ordinary Resolution 10 is an enabling resolution which gives the Company, subject to the agreement of shareholders, the authority to use these new provisions.
The Board have not yet reached a decision as to whether or not they intend to seek to communicate with shareholders electronically, but the resolution gives them the flexibility to do so should they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 64 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Annual General Meeting 5 February 2008 Ex dividend date 6 February 2008 Record date 8 February 2008 Payment of dividend 3 March 2008 Announcement of 2008 interim results May 2008 Payment of interim dividend July 2008 The date by which shareholders must be recorded on the share register to receive the dividend.
Victrex plc Registered in England Number 2793780 Registered Office: Victrex Technology Centre Hillhouse International Thornton Cleveleys Lancashire FY5 4QD United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 Web: www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 VICTREX PLC IS AN INNOVATIVE WORLD LEADER IN HIGH PERFORMANCE MATERIALS THROUGH THE MANUFACTURE OF VICTREX PEEK POLYMER, A HIGH PERFORMANCE, EASY TO PROCESS THERMOPLASTIC.
CONTENTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 01 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 01 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW 02 ABOUT OUR BUSINESS 02 STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES 08 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 09 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 18 DIRECTORS REPORT 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 24 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 30 ACCOUNTS 31 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 32 BALANCE SHEETS 33 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 34 STATEMENTS OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE 35 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 59 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 60 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 64 VICTREX PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Victrex plc Victrex Technology Centre, Hillhouse International Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire, FY5 4QD, United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 Web: www.
com INTEGRAL PART OF THE SOLUTION VICTREX PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
