Share-based payments Scheme which are unapproved and the Vodafone Group 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Some of the options are subject to performance conditions.
The Company currently uses a number of equity settled share plans to grant options and shares to its directors and employees.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be issued in For grants made to US employees, prior to 7 July 2003 the options have respect of share options or share plans will not without shareholder approval exceed: phased vesting over a four year period and are exercisable in respect of ADSs.
For grants made from 7 July 2003, options are normally exercisable between a.
10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately three and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction of predetermined performance conditions and are exercisable in respect of prior to the date of grant, when aggregated with the total number of ordinary shares which have been allocated in the preceding ten year ADSs.
period under all plans: and Other share option schemes Shar b.
5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior e option schemes are operated by certain of the Groups subsidiary to the date of grant, when aggregated with the total number of ordinary undertakings although awards are no longer made under these schemes.
shares which have been allocated in the preceding ten year period under all plans other than the Sharesave Scheme and the Vodafone Group Plc All Share Plans Employee Share Plan.
Vodafone Share Incentive Plan The Share Incentive Plan enables UK staff to acquire shares in the Company Share Options through monthly purchases of up to 125 per month or 5% of salary, Vodafone Group Sharesave Scheme whichever is lower.
For each share purchased by the employee, the Company The Vodafone Group 1998 Sharesave Scheme the Sharesave Scheme provides a free matching share.
enables UK staff to acquire shares in the Company through monthly savings of up to 250 over a three or five year period, at the end of which they also Vodafone Group AllShares receive a tax free bonus.
The savings and bonus may then be used to All permanent employees at 1 April 2006 received an award of 340 shares purchase shares at the option price, which is set at the beginning of the 2006: 320 in Vodafone Group Plc on 3 July 2006, under the Vodafone Group invitation period and usually at a discount of 20% to the then prevailing Plc Global All Employee Share Plan.
The awards vest after two years and are market price of the Companys shares.
not subject to performance conditions other than continued employment.
Vodafone Group executive schemes Vodafone Group executive plans The Vodafone Global Incentive Plan is a discretionary plan under which share Under the Vodafone Global Incentive Plan and its predecessor the Vodafone options are granted to directors and certain employees.
Some of the share Group Plc 1999 Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, awards of performance options are subject to performance conditions.
Options are normally shares are granted to directors and certain employees.
The release of these exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
shares is conditional upon achievement of performance targets measured over a three year period.
The Company has a number of discretionary share option plans, under which awards are no longer made: the Vodafone Group 1998 Company Share Under the Vodafone Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan, directors and certain Option Scheme and Vodafone Group 1988 Executive Share Option Scheme employees may defer their annual bonus into shares.
Subject to continued which are UK HM Revenue and Customs approved, the Vodafone Group employment and retention of the deferred shares for two years, additional 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Vodafone 1988 Share Option shares are released at the end of this two year period if a performance condition has been satisfied.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 117 Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Lattice-based option valuation models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs and those ranges are disclosed above.
Certain options granted to the Board of directors and Executive Committee have a market based performance condition attached and hence the assumptions are disclosed separately.
The Group uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination within the valuation model: separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behaviour are considered separately for valuation purposes.
The expected life of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding: the range given above results from certain groups of employees exhibiting different behaviour.
Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities as determined by a simple average of no less than three international banks excluding the highest and lowest numbers.
The risk-free rates for periods within the contractual life of the option are based on the UK gilt yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Shares used for the Groups employee incentive plans can be newly issued shares, shares held in treasury or market purchased shares either through the Companys employee benefit trust or direct from the market or a combination of sources.
The source of the shares is determined by the Company having regard to what is considered the most efficient source at the relevant time.
Some share awards have an attached market condition, based on Total Shareholder Return TSR, which is taken into account when calculating the fair value of the share awards.
The valuation methodology for the TSR was based on Vodafones ranking within the same group of companies where possible over the past five years 2006: ten years, 2005: ten years.
The volatility of the ranking over a three year period was used to determine the probability weighted percentage number of shares that could be expected to vest and hence affect fair value.
Other information The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted during the 2007 financial year was 0.22 2006: 0.30, 2005: 0.34.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended 31 March 2007 was 65 million 2006: 164 million, 2005: 28 million.
The aggregate intrinsic value of fully vested share options outstanding at the year end was 102 million and the aggregate intrinsic value of fully vested share options exercisable at the year end was 73 million.
Cash received from the exercise of options under share options schemes was 193 million and the tax benefit realised from options exercised during the annual period was 21 million.
The total fair value of shares vested during the year ended 31 March 2007 was 41 million 2006: 18 million, 2005: 5 million.
The compensation cost that has been charged against income in respect of share options and share plans for continuing operations was 93 million 2006: 109 million, 2005: 130 million, which is comprised entirely of equity-settled transactions.
Including discontinued operations, the compensation cost charged against income in respect of share options and share plans in total was 93 million 2006: 114 million, 2005: 137 million.
The total income tax benefit recognised in the consolidated income statement in respect of share options and share plans was 34 million 2006: 50 million, 2005: 17 million.
Compensation costs in respect of share options and share plans capitalised during the years ended 31 March 2007, 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 were insignificant.
As of 31 March 2007, there was 130 million of total compensation cost relating to non-vested awards not yet recognised, which is expected to be recognised over a weighted average period of two years.
No cash was used to settle equity instruments granted under share-based payment schemes.
The average share price for the 2007 financial year was 129 pence.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 119 Financials
