Impairment Impairment losses The impairment losses recognised in the income statement, as a separate line item within operating profit, in respect of goodwill are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Cash generating unit: Reportable segment: m m m Germany Germany 6,700 19,400 Italy Italy 4,900 3,600 Sweden Other Europe 515 475 11,600 23,515 475 During the year ended 31 March 2007, the increase in long term interest rates, which led to higher discount rates, led to a reduction in value of 3,700 million in Germany and Italy.
Germany During the year ended 31 March 2007, the goodwill in relation to the Groups mobile operation in Germany was impaired by 6.7 billion following a test for impairment triggered by an increase in long term interest rates and increased price competition in the German market along with continued regulatory pressures.
The impairment loss for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 19.4 billion was determined as part of the annual test for impairment and was as a result of the intensification in price competition, principally from new market entrants, together with high levels of penetration and continued regulated reductions in incoming call rates.
Italy During the year ended 31 March 2007, the goodwill in relation to the Groups mobile joint venture in Italy was impaired by 4.9 billion.
During the second half of the 2007 financial year, 3.5 billion of the impairment loss resulted from the estimated impact of legislation cancelling the fixed fees for the top up of prepaid cards and the related competitive response in the Italian market.
At 30 September 2006, the goodwill was impaired by 1.4 billion, following a test for impairment triggered by an increase in long term interest rates.
The impairment loss for the year ended 31 March 2006 of 3.6 billion was due to competitive pressures increasing with the mobile network operators competing aggressively on subsidies and, increasingly, on price.
Sweden The impairment of the carrying value of goodwill of the Groups mobile operation in Sweden in the years ended 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 resulted fr om fierce competition in the Swedish market combined with onerous 3G licence obligations.
Prior to its disposal in the year ended 31 March 2006, the carrying value of goodwill was tested for impairment as increased competition provided an indicator that the goodwill may have been further impaired.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill was determined as the fair value less costs to sell, reflecting the announcement on 31 October 2005 that the Groups 100% interest in Vodafone Sweden was to be sold for ?953 million 653 million.
The sale completed on 5 January 2006.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 109 Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Impairment continued In the year ended 31 March 2005, the impairment was based on value in use calculations.
The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate used in the testing at 31 March 2005 was 9.7%.
Cash generating units The following cash-generating units, being the lowest level of asset for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, have carrying amounts of goodwill that are considered significant in comparison with the Groups total goodwill balance: 2007 2006 m m Germany 9,355 16,518 Italy 11,125 16,475 Spain 10,285 10,571 30,765 43,564 Multiple units without individually significant amounts of goodwill 9,802 9,042 40,567 52,606 Key assumptions used in the value in use calculations The Group prepares and internally approves formal ten year management plans for its businesses.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, the Group used these plans for its value in use calculations.
The plans included cash flow projections for the mobile businesses which were expected to have growth rates in excess of the long term average growth rates, beyond an initial five year period, for the markets in which they operate.
In the year ended 31 March 2006, the management plans showed the need to reflect a differing growth profile beyond an initial five year period had diminished in a number of the Groups key operating companies, as the Group revised its view of longer term trends.
Accordingly, in the 2006 and 2007 financial years, only the first five years of the ten year management plans were used for the Groups value in use calculations, except for the Groups operations in India and Turkey 2006: India where the full ten year management plans were used.
For these businesses, the use of ten year management plans reflected the low penetration of mobile telecommunications in these countries and the expectation of strong revenue growth throughout the ten year period.
Long term growth rates are used in the Groups value in use calculations for cash flows into perpetuity beyond the relevant five or ten year periods.
The key assumptions used in determining the value in use are: Assumption How determined Budgeted EBITDA Budgeted EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, has been based on past experience adjusted for the following: voice and messaging revenue is expected to benefit from increased usage from new customers, the introduction of new services and traffic moving from fixed networks to mobile networks, though these factors will be partially offset by increased competitor activity, which may result in price declines, and the trend of falling termination rates: non-messaging data revenue is expected to continue to grow strongly as the penetration of 3G enabled devices rises and new products and services are introduced: and margins are expected to be impacted by negative factors such as an increase in the cost of acquiring and retaining customers in increasingly competitive markets and the expectation of further termination rate cuts by regulators and by positive factors such as the efficiencies expected from the implementation of Group initiatives.
Budgeted capital expenditure The cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure is based on past experience and includes the ongoing capital expenditure required to provide enhanced voice and data products and services and to meet the population coverage requirements of certain of the Groups licences.
Capital expenditure includes cash outflows for the purchase of property, plant and equipment and computer software.
Long term growth rate For mobile businesses where the first five years of the ten year management plan are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and the long term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten of the management plan.
For mobile businesses where the full ten year management plans are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the management plan.
For non-mobile businesses, no growth is expected beyond managements plans for the initial five year period.
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate The discount rate applied to the cash flows of each the Groups operations is based on the risk free rate for ten year bonds issued by the government in the respective market, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect both the increased risk of investing in equities and the systematic risk of the specific Group operating company.
In making this adjustment, inputs required are the equity market risk premium that is the required increased return required over and above a risk free rate by an investor who is investing in the market as a whole and the risk adjustment beta applied to reflect the risk of the specific Group operating company relative to the market as a whole.
In determining the risk adjusted discount rate, management have applied an adjustment for the systematic risk to each of the Groups operations determined using an average of the betas of comparable listed mobile telecommunications companies and, where available and appropriate, across a specific territory.
Management have used a forward looking equity market risk premium that takes into consideration both studies by independent economists, the average equity market risk premium over the past ten years and the market risk premiums typically used by investment banks in evaluating acquisition proposals.
110 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
