Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Contingent liabilities 2007 2006 m m Performance bonds 109 189 Credit guarantees third party indebtedness 34 64 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 90 19 Performance bonds Court and Court of Appeal.
The Vodafone 2 reference has still to be heard by Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the ECJ.
Vodafone 2s application for closure was stayed pending delivery of the event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the the ECJs judgment.
terms of any related contracts.
In September 2006, the ECJ determined in the Cadbury Schweppes case Group performance bonds include 57 million 2006: 152 million in C-196 04 the Cadbury Schweppes Judgment that the CFC Regime is respect of undertakings to roll out 3G networks in Spain.
incompatible with EU law unless it applies to wholly artificial arrangements intended to escape national tax normally payable.
The correct application of Credit guarantees third party indebtedness the Cadbury Schweppes Judgment to Vodafone 2s case is a matter for the Credit guarantees comprise guarantees and indemnities of bank or other Special Commissioners to determine.
facilities, including those in respect of the Groups associated undertakings and investments.
At a hearing in March 2007, the Special Commissioners heard submissions from both parties as to whether the Vodafone 2 reference should be Other guarantees and contingent liabilities maintained or withdrawn by the Special Commissioners in light of the Other guarantees principally comprise commitments to support disposed Cadbury Schweppes Judgement.
The Special Commissioners are expected to entities.
rule on this question in the coming months.
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, the Group has guaranteed In addition to the Vodafone 2 enquiry, on 31 October 2005, HMRC financial indebtedness and issued performance bonds for 25 million 2006: commenced an enquiry into the residence of Vodafone Investments 33 million in respect of businesses which have been sold and for which Luxembourg Sarl the VIL enquiry.
VILs position is that it is resident for tax counter indemnities have been received from the purchasers.
purposes solely in Luxembourg and therefore it is not liable for corporation tax in the UK.
On 8 December 2006, HMRC confirmed that it had closed the The Group also enters into lease arrangements in the normal course of VIL enquiry.
business, which are principally in respect of land, buildings and equipment.
Further details on the minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable The Company has taken provisions, which at 31 March 2007 amounted to operating lease arrangements can be found in note 30. approximately 2.1 billion, for the potential UK corporation tax liability and related interest expense that may arise in connection with the Vodafone 2 Legal proceedings enquiry.
The provisions relate to the accounting period which is the subject of The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may be from time to the proceedings described above as well as to accounting periods after time, involved in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from or 31 March 2001 to date.
The provisions at 31 March 2007 reflect the discussions with governmental authorities, that are incidental to their developments during the year, in particular the Cadburys Schweppes operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company and its Judgment.
subsidiaries are not involved currently in any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to be The Company has recently been served with a Complaint filed in the contemplated which may have, or have had in the twelve months preceding Supreme Court of the State of New York by Cem Uzan and others against the the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial position or Company, Vodafone Telekomunikasyon A. S. VTAS, Vodafone Holding A. S. and others.
The Plaintiffs make certain allegations in connection with the sale profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries.
of the assets of the Turkish company Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A. S. Telsim to the Groups Turkish subsidiary which acquired the The Company is a defendant in four actions in the United States alleging personal injury, including brain cancer, from mobile phone use.
In each case, assets from the SDIF, a public agency of the Turkish state, in a public auction in Turkey pursuant to Turkish law in which a number of mobile various other carriers and mobile phone manufacturers are also named as defendants.
These actions have not progressed beyond an early stage and no telecommunications companies participated.
The Plaintiffs seek an Order requiring the return of the assets of Telsim to them or damages.
The accurate quantification of any losses which may arise out of the claims can therefore be made as at the date of this report.
The Company is not aware Company believes these claims have no merit and will vigorously defend the claims.
that the health risks alleged in such personal injury claims have been substantiated and will be vigorously defending such claims.
A subsidiary of the Company, Vodafone 2, is responding to an enquiry the Vodafone 2 enquiry by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC with regard to the UK tax treatment of its Luxembourg holding company, Vodafone Investments Luxembourg SARL VIL, under the Controlled Foreign Companies section of the UKs Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 the CFC Regime relating to the tax treatment of profits earned by the holding company for the accounting period ended 31 March 2001.
Vodafone 2s position is that it is not liable for corporation tax in the UK under the CFC Regime in respect of VIL.
Vodafone 2 asserts, inter alia, that the CFC Regime is contrary to EU law and has made an application to the Special Commissioners of HMRC for closure of the Vodafone 2 enquiry.
In May 2005, the Special Commissioners referred certain questions relating to the compatibility of the CFC Regime with EU law to the European Court of Justice the ECJ for determination the Vodafone 2 reference.
HMRC subsequently appealed against the decision of the Special Commissioners to make the Vodafone 2 reference but its appeal was rejected by both the High 134 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
