Definition of Terms The definition of terms used throughout the performance section is detailed below.
These terms are not uniformly defined by all companies in the Groups industry.
Accordingly, such measures may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other companies.
3G broadband 3G services enabled with High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA technology which enables data transmission at speeds of up to two megabits per second.
3G device A handset or device capable of accessing 3G data services.
Acquired intangibles Amortisation relating to intangible assets identified and recognised separately in respect of a business combination in excess of the amortisation intangible assets recognised by the acquiree prior to acquisition.
Acquisition costs The total of connection fees, trade commissions and equipment costs relating to new customer connections.
Active customer A customer who pays a monthly fee or has made or received a chargeable event in the last three months.
ARPU Total revenue excluding handset revenue and connection fees divided by the weighted average number of customers during the period.
Capitalised fixed asset This measure includes the aggregate of capitalised property, plant and equipment additions and capitalised software costs.
additions Change at constant Changes relating to one country are calculated based on local currency amounts in both periods.
For changes relating to multiple exchange rates countries, calculations exclude the exchange rate movements by restating the prior periods results as if they had been generated at the current periods exchange rates.
Churn Total gross customer disconnections in the period divided by the average total customers in the period.
Controlled and jointly Controlled and jointly controlled measures include 100% for the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries and the Groups proportionate controlled share for joint ventures.
Customer A customer is defined as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM, or in territories where SIMs do not exist, a unique mobile telephone number, which has access to the network for any purpose including data only usage except telemetric applications.
Telemetric applications include, but are not limited to, asset and equipment tracking, mobile payment and billing functionality for example, vending machines and meter readings and include voice enabled customers whose usage is limited to a central service operation for example, emergency response applications in vehicles.
Data revenue Data revenue includes all non-voice service revenue excluding messaging, fixed line and DSL.
Depreciation and other This measure includes the profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software.
amortisation DSL A Digital Subscriber Line which is a fixed line enabling data to be transmitted at high speeds.
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access is a wireless technology enabling data transmission speeds of up to 3.6 megabits per second.
Interconnect costs A charge paid by Vodafone to other fixed line or mobile operators when a Vodafone customer calls a customer connected to a different network.
Messaging revenue Messaging revenue includes all SMS and MMS revenue including wholesale messaging revenue, revenue from the use of messaging services by Vodafone customers roaming away from their home network and customers visiting the local network.
Net debt Long term borrowings, short term borrowings and mark to market adjustments on financing instruments less cash and cash equivalents.
Organic growth The percentage movements in organic growth are presented to reflect operating performance on a comparable basis.
Where an entity, being a subsidiary, joint venture or associated undertaking, was newly acquired or disposed of in the current or prior period, the Group adjusts, under organic growth calculations, the results for the current and prior period to remove the amount the Group earned in both periods as a result of the acquisition or disposal of subsidiary or associated undertakings.
Where the Group increases, or decreases, its ownership interest in a joint venture or associated undertaking in the current or prior period, the Groups results for the prior period are restated at the current periods ownership level.
Further adjustments in organic calculations exclude the effect of exchange rate movements by restating the prior periods results as if they had been generated at the current periods exchange rates and excludes the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Partner Markets Markets in which the Group has entered into a Partner Agreement with a local mobile operator enabling a range of Vodafones global products and services to be marketed in that operators territory and extending Vodafones brand reach into such new markets.
Penetration Number of customers in a country as a percentage of the countrys population.
Penetration can be in excess of 100% due to customers owning more than one Subscriber Identity Module SIM.
Proportionate customers The proportionate customer number represents the number of mobile customers in ventures which the Group either controls or invests, based on the Groups ownership in such ventures.
Purchased licence Amortisation relating to capitalised licence and spectrum fees purchased directly by the Group or existing on recognition through amortisation business combination accounting, and such fees recognised by an acquiree prior to acquisition.
Retention costs The total of trade commissions, loyalty scheme and equipment costs relating to customer retention and upgrade.
Service revenue Service revenue comprises all revenue related to the provision of ongoing services including, but not limited to, monthly access charges, airtime usage, roaming, incoming and outgoing network usage by non-Vodafone customers and interconnect charges for incoming calls.
Termination rate A per minute charge paid by a telecommunications network operator when a customer makes a call to another mobile or fixed line network operator.
active A handset or device equipped with the Vodafone live!
portal which has made or received a chargeable event in the last month.
device Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 159 Gl Glossar ossary y Notes 160 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Contact Details Our goal is to be the Investor Relations: Telephone: 44 0 1635 664447 Media Relations: Telephone: 44 0 1635 664444 communications leader Corporate Responsibility: Fax: 44 0 1635 674478 E-mail: responsibility@vodafone.
com in an increasingly Website: www.
com responsibility connected world This constitutes the Annual Report of Vodafone Group Plc the Company in accordance with In presenting and discussing the Groups reported financial position, operating results and cash flows, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 certain information is derived from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but this information applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and is dated 29 May 2007.
References to IFRS refer to is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure.
Such non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU.
This document also isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure.
An explanation as to the use of these contains information set out within the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the measures and reconciliations to their nearest equivalent GAAP measures can be found on requirements of the United States US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC.
However, pages 62 to 63. this information may be updated or supplemented at the time of filing of that document with the SEC or later amended if necessary.
The content of the Groups website www.
com should not be The Report of the Directors, incorporating the Business Review, covers pages 4 to 88 of this Annual considered to form part of this Annual Report or the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F. Report.
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the Groups financial condition, results of The terms Vodafone, the Group, we, our and us refer to the Company and, as applicable, its operations and business management and strategy, plans and objectives for the Group.
For further We want to keep the environmental impact of the documents in our Annual Report package to a minimum.
subsidiary undertakings and or its interests in joint ventures and associated undertakings.
details, please see Performance Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We have therefore given careful consideration to the production process.
and Performance Risk Factors, Seasonality and Outlook for a discussion of the risks associated with This document in printed on Revive 75 Silk, manufactured in the EU at mills In the discussion of the Groups reported financial position and results for the year ended 31 March 2007, these statements.
with ISO 14001 accreditation and comprising 75% fide-inked post consumer waste information in addition to that contained within the Consolidated Financial Statements is presented on and 25% virgin fibre.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood the basis that it provides readers with additional financial information regularly reviewed by management.
Vodafone, the Vodafone logos, Vodafone live!, Vodafone Mobile Connect, Vodafone Wireless Office, from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest This information is provided to assist investor assessment of the Groups performance from period to Vodafone Passport, Vodafone At Home, Vodafone Office, Vodafone Applications Service, Vodafone Stewardship Council.
Printed by St Ives in accordance with the ISO 14001 environmental management system using vegetable-based inks.
However, the additional information presented is not uniformly defined by all companies, including Business Email, Vodafone Travel Promise, Vodafone Push Email, Vodafone Consumer Push Email and holds FSC Chain of Custody certificate number SGS-COC-1732.
By undertaking those in the Groups industry.
Accordingly, it may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and Vodafone etavine are trademarks of the Vodafone Group.
Other product and company names all printing, binding and mailing within a 23 mile radius, further environmental disclosures by other companies.
Definitions of the terms presented are shown on page 159. mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners.
savings in terms of transport and energy are achieved.
All the steps we have taken demonstrate our commitment to making sustainable choices.
Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2007 Delivering on our strategic objectives Vodafone Group Plc Registered office: Vodafone House The Connection Newbury Berkshire RG14 2FN England Registered in England No.
com For the year ended 31 March 2007
