Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Business combinations The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Consolidated the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and Financial Statements are also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the the European Union EU, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
IFRS and IFRS as adopted by the EU differ in certain material The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair respects from US generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
For a discussion on the The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at Groups critical accounting estimates see Performance Critical Accounting the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and Estimates elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Actual results could differ from contingent liabilities recognised.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the Previously held identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period acquired entity are revalued to their fair value at the date of acquisition, being or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both the date at which the Group achieves control of the acquiree.
The movement current and future periods.
in fair value is taken to the asset revaluation surplus.
Amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in pounds Interests in joint ventures sterling, the currency of the country in which the Company is A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other incorporated.
The translation into US dollars of the Consolidated Financial parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that is, Statements as of, and for the year ended, 31 March 2007, is for convenience when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the only and has been made at the Noon Buying Rate for cable transfers as activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes on 30 March 2007.
This translation should not be The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using construed as a representation that the sterling amounts actually represented proportionate consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, have been, or could be, converted into dollars at this or any other rate.
income, expenses and cash flows of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in the results on a line-by-line basis.
Significant accounting policies Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting Accounting convention policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured Investments in associates at fair value.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Basis of consolidation Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint statements of the Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the Accounting for subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included interest in that associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting associate.
policies into line with those used by the Group.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the on consolidation.
associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the The licences of the Groups associated undertaking in the US, Verizon amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination Wireless, are indefinite lived assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the Accordingly, they are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys impairment, or when indicators exist that the carrying value is not share of changes in equity are allocated against the interests of the Group recoverable.
except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 95 Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Other intangible assets Other intangible assets with finite lives are stated at cost less accumulated Intangible assets amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income Goodwill statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the intangible assets from the date they are available for use.
The estimated cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the useful lives are as follows: identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost Brands 1 10 years and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment Customer bases 3 8 years losses.
Goodwill is held in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use are stated in the balance sheet at their cost, Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment.
less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised recognised in the income statement on disposal.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior incremental costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land and properties under construction, using the straight-line method, Licence and spectrum fees over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Licence and spectrum fees are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
The amortisation periods range from 3 to 25 years and are determined Freehold buildings 25 50 years primarily by reference to the unexpired licence period, the conditions for Leasehold premises the term of the lease licence renewal and whether licences are dependent on specific technologies.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over Equipment, fixtures and fittings the estimated useful lives from the commencement of service of the network.
Network infrastructure 3 25 years Computer software Other 3 10 years Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
over their estimated useful lives, being 3 to 5 years.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the unique software products controlled by the Group, and that are expected to relevant lease.
generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include software development The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, employee costs and directly attributable overheads.
plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Software integral to a related item of hardware equipment is accounted for as income statement.
Impairment of assets Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are Goodwill recognised as an expense when they are incurred.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest in which it is incurred.
levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, known as cashgenerating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to activity is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of an asset is created that can be separately identified: each asset in the unit.
Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not reversed in a subsequent period.
it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
over their estimated useful lives.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
96 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets For equipment sales made to intermediaries, revenue is recognised if the At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its significant risks associated with the equipment are transferred to the property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets to determine intermediary and the intermediary has no general right of return.
If the whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an significant risks are not transferred, revenue recognition is deferred until sale impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the of the handset to an end customer by the intermediary or the expiry of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment right of return.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashIntermediaries are incentivised by the Group to connect new customers and generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Where such incentives are separable from the initial sale of equipment to an intermediary, the incentive is accounted for as If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to an expense upon connection, or upgrade, of the customer.
be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cashgenerating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is Revenue from other businesses primarily comprises amounts charged to recognised immediately in the income statement.
customers of the Groups fixed line businesses, mainly in respect of access charges and line usage, invoiced and recorded as part of a Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the periodic billing cycle.
asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, not to exceed the carrying amount that would have In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or arrangement consideration is allocated to each deliverable based on the fair cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is value of the individual element.
The Group generally determines the fair recognised immediately in the income statement.
value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly sold on a standalone basis.
Disposal groups held for sale Disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying value and fair Inventory value less costs to sell.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the basis of weighted average costs and comprises direct Revenue materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads Group revenue comprises revenue of the Company and its subsidiary that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present undertakings plus the Groups share of the revenue of its joint ventures and location and condition.
excludes sales taxes and discounts.
Leasing Revenue from mobile telecommunications comprises amounts charged Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to messaging, the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
including data services and information provision, fees for connecting users of other fixed line and mobile networks to the Groups network, Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets, and revenue their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of arising from Partner Market agreements.
the minimum lease payments as determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a Access charges and airtime used by contract customers are invoiced and finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle and recognised as revenue charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate over the related access period, with unbilled revenue resulting from of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are services already provided from the billing cycle date to the end of each recognised in the income statement.
period accrued and unearned revenue from services provided in periods after each accounting period deferred.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Other revenue from mobile telecommunications primarily comprises equipment sales, which are recognised upon delivery to customers, and Foreign currencies customer connection revenue.
Customer connection revenue is recognised In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities within the together with the related equipment revenue to the extent that the Group, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency aggregate equipment and connection revenue does not exceed the fair value are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the of the equipment delivered to the customer.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in revenue not recognised together with related equipment revenue is deferred foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance and recognised over the period in which services are expected to be provided sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in to the customer.
foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the date when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of Revenue from data services and information provision is recognised when the historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Group has performed the related service and, depending on the nature of the service, is recognised either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the amount receivable by the Group as commission for facilitating the service.
Incentives are provided to customers in various forms and are usually offered on signing a new contract or as part of a promotional offering.
Where such incentives are provided on connection of a new customer or the upgrade of an existing customer, revenue representing the fair value of the incentive, relative to other deliverables provided to the customer as part of the same arrangement, is deferred and recognised in line with the Groups performance of its obligations relating to the incentive.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 97 Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because currency classified as available for sale are analysed between translation some items of income or expense are taxable or deductible in different years differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
or may never be taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is Translation differences are recognised in the income statement and other calculated using UK and foreign tax rates and laws that have been enacted or changes in carrying amount are recognised in equity.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the future reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on nonarising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities classified and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases as available for sale, are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
used in the computation of taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are assets and liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be sterling are expressed in sterling using exchange rates prevailing on the available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Income and expense items and cash flows are Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference translated at the average exchange rates for the period and exchange arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
Such translation combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
a foreign operation is disposed of.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary translated accordingly.
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have arisen before 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance nil and will be excluded from the determination of any subsequent profit or sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that loss on disposal.
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the which they are incurred.
period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Post employment benefits For defined benefit retirement plans, the difference between the fair value of Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to the plan assets and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they either asset or liability on the balance sheet.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the the Group early adopted the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, same taxable entity or on different taxable entities which intend to settle the issued by the IASB on 16 December 2004 and applied it from 1 April 2004. current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Accordingly, actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous recognised directly in equity.
actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Financial instruments Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to effect of any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected the contractual provisions of the instrument.
return on assets is also charged to the income statement.
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is included within The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS to financial instruments for operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted all periods presented and has not taken advantage of any exemptions operations as appropriate.
available to first time adopters of IFRS in this respect.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group early adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: The values attributed to plan liabilities are assessed in accordance with the Disclosures, amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and advice of independent qualified actuaries.
Measurement and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, regarding Financial Guarantee Contracts and amendments to IAS 39 regarding The Fair Value The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged Option and Cash Flow Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup to the income statement as they fall due.
Transactions and applied them from 1 April 2004.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at 1 April 2004, the date of transition Trade receivables to IFRS, have been recognised in the balance sheet.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable Taxation amounts.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and receivable balances and historical experience.
Individual trade receivables are deferred tax.
written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
98 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Other investments Fair value hedges Other investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require swaps to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market to hedge the interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
The Group designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in the Other investments are classified as either held for trading or available-for-sale, income statement for the period together with the changes in the fair value and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Where of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the extent the hedge is securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes effective.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period.
sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined Net investment hedges to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in recognised in equity, determined using the weighted average costs method, foreign operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
those hedging instruments which include bonds, commercial paper and foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of the net investments Cash and cash equivalents in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent that the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and call deposits, and hedging relationship is effective.
These amounts are included in exchange other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a differences on translation of foreign operations as stated in the statement known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes of recognised income and expense.
Gains and losses relating to hedge in value.
ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the translation reserve are Trade payables included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group adopted the Amendments to IAS 21, The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Financial liabilities and equity instruments Rates, with effect from 1 April 2004, being the date of transition to IFRS Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified for the Group.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity Provisions instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result the Group after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Capital market and bank borrowings Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value Share-based payments which is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employamortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they ees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of the proceeds net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest Equity instruments and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model which is calibrated received, net of direct issue costs.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nonDerivative financial instruments and hedge accounting transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Advertising costs The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies Expenditure on advertising is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
approved by the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment income and financing costs in the income statement.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 99 Financials
