The Group has a controlling interest in a fixed line telecommunications Contents service provider in Germany, with fixed line services in other markets typically provided using wholesale relationships with infrastructure Page providers.
Business Overview 10 Who We Are 10 During the year the Group was ranked number one in the 2006 Global Where We Operate 10 Accountability Rating, which measures how companies have built What We Offer Our Customers 14 responsible business practices, emphasising Vodafones commitment to How We Deliver Our Services 17 Corporate and Social Responsibility.
Our Technology and Resources 19 The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange How We Developed 22 and the Companys ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Regulation 24 NYSE.
The Company had a total market capitalisation of approximately 80 billion at 25 May 2007, making it the third largest company in the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 FTSE 100 index and the twenty Business Overview second largest company in the world based on market capitalisation at that date.
Who We Are Vodafone is a world leader in providing voice and data Where We Operate communications services for both consumer and The Group is managed and organised through two enterprise customers, with a significant presence in geographic regions Europe and EMAPA Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Pacific and the Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia, Pacific and United States.
The Group is structured into two regions Affiliates with the objective of aligning operations to address the different business challenges inherent with the Groups strategy and focusing the Groups in them.
businesses according to different market and customer At 31 March 2007, based on the registered customers requirements.
of mobile communications ventures in which it had In addition, there are a number of central functions, equity interests at that date, the Group had which are referred to as Common Functions, which approximately 206.4 million proportionate customers.
provide services to the Groups operations and allow the Group to leverage its scale and scope and manage The Company has equity interests in 25 countries, through its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments.
Partner Market arrangements extend the Groups footprint to a further 38 countries.
Europe Europe includes the Groups principal mobile subsidiaries, located in The table on page 13 sets out a summary of the Groups worldwide mobile Germany, Spain and the UK, its joint venture in Italy, as well as the Groups operations at 31 March 2007 and venture customer growth, being growth 73.7% controlling interest in a fixed line telecommunications business in based on 100% of the operations customer base, in the year then ended Germany.
Other businesses in the European region comprise the Groups the 2007 financial year.
other subsidiaries in this geographic area, being Albania, Greece, Ireland, Malta, Netherlands and Portugal.
Through its mobile businesses, the Group provides a wide range of mobile communications services, including voice, text messages SMS, picture The Groups mobile subsidiaries in Europe and joint venture in Italy operate messages MMS and other data services, and is continually developing under the brand name Vodafone.
The Groups fixed line subsidiary and enhancing service offerings, particularly through third generation 3G operates as Arcor.
Arcor is the second largest fixed line telecommunications mobile technology which has been deployed in the majority of the Groups provider in Germany and offers its customers a range of services for voice operations.
Services are provided to both consumers and corporate and data transfer, based on its own Germany-wide networks, with a focus on customers, through a variety of both prepaid and contract tariff direct access based broadband and internet protocol enabled virtual private arrangements.
The Groups mobile services are currently offered over a Global System for The mobile market share of the Groups operators in its principal markets, Mobile Communications GSM network, on which a General Packet Radio based on publicly available information, is estimated as follows: Service GPRS is also provided and, in certain operations, over a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W-CDMA 3G network.
Where 3G licences have been issued, the Group has secured such licences in jurisdictions in Customer market share % which it operates through its subsidiary undertakings.
Vodafone offered 3G At 31 December 2006 services in 14 of its controlled operations at 31 March 2007.
Germany 36 In line with the Groups strategy, the Group is increasingly focusing on Italy 33 developing total communications solutions for customers, making use of the evolving technological changes which provide a far greater choice in Spain 31 services, whilst maintaining a mobile centric approach, focusing on the core UK 26 benefits to customers of mobility and personalisation.
As part of these 0 10 20 30 40 offerings, the Group now offers fixed broadband connectivity as part of the total communications solution in a number of markets in which it operates.
10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 EMAPA Competition The EMAPA region covers Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia, The Group faces significant competition in each of its geographic markets.
Pacific and Affiliates, and includes the Groups subsidiary operations in the It is subject to indirect competition from providers of other communications Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Turkey, Egypt, Australia and New services in the domestic markets in which it operates in addition to direct Zealand, joint ventures in Poland, Kenya, South Africa and Fiji, associated competition from existing mobile communications network operators and undertakings in France and the US and the Groups investments in China mobile virtual network operators MVNOs who do not operate a mobile and India.
There are also new types of competitors, such as fixed line operators offering combined fixed and mobile service The Groups subsidiaries in EMAPA operate under the Vodafone brand.
The offerings, and internet based companies extending their services to include joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments operate under the telecommunications.
Competitive pressures impact the level of customer following brands: China China Mobile: Fiji Vodafone: France SFR and churn, which the Group seeks to manage by a continued focus on tariffs and Neuf Cegetel: India Airtel: Kenya Safaricom: Poland Plus GSM: South customer acquisition and retention initiatives.
Africa Vodacom: US Verizon Wireless.
The Group expects that competition will continue from existing operators as On 8 May 2007, the Group completed its acquisition of a controlling interest well as from a number of new market entrants, including those arising in Hutchison Essar Limited Hutchison Essar, a mobile telecommunications following the award of new 3G licences and MVNOs.
The scope of this operator in the Indian market, which operates under the Hutch brand.
increased competition, and the impact on the results of operations, is discussed further in Performance Risk Factors, Seasonality and Outlook.
EMAPAs results include the results from non-mobile telecommunications businesses.
The Group has a 17.91% indirect ownership in Neuf Cegetel, the Many of Vodafones key markets are highly penetrated, some with leading alternative operator for fixed telecommunication services in France, penetration rates of over 100% due to a number of customers owning more offering a wide range of fixed line services to residential and business than one subscriber identity module SIM, which is, broadly, the Groups customers as well as special corporate services ranging from internet and basis for defining a mobile customer.
The penetration rates for the Groups customer relations management to internet and intranet hosting services.
operations in its principal markets, based on publicly available information, The Group also has a direct and indirect interest constituting in aggregate a is estimated as follows: 9.99% ownership in Bharti Airtel, an Indian based mobile and fixed line telecommunications operation with three strategic business units, mobile Estimated penetration Europe % At 31 December 2006 services, broadband and telephone services and enterprise services.
In conjunction with the acquisition of Hutchison Essar Limited, a Bharti Group Germany 104 entity agreed on 9 May 2007 to acquire 5.60% of Bharti Airtel from the Group.
Following the completion of this sale, the Group will continue to hold Italy 143 an indirect stake of 4.39% in Bharti Airtel.
Spain 110 UK 137 The mobile market share of the Groups operators in its most significant EMAPA 0 50 100 150 200 markets, based on publicly available information, is estimated as follows: Estimated penetration EMAPA % Customer market share % At 31 December 2006 At 31 December 2006 Australia 90 Australia 18 Egypt 24 Egypt 48 India 13 Romania 45 South Romania 80 58 Africa South 77 Turkey 24 Africa 72 US 25 Turkey 0 20 40 60 80 79 US 0 25 50 75 100 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 11 Business Business Overview continued Partner Markets Partner Markets are operations in which the Group has entered into a partnership agreement with a local mobile operator, enabling a range of Vodafones global products and services to be marketed in that operators territory.
Under the terms of these Partner Market agreements, the Group and its partners co-operate in the development and marketing of certain services, often under dual brand logos.
The Groups Partner Market strategy enables the Group to implement its global services in new territories, extend its brand reach into new markets and create additional revenue without the need for equity investment.
Similar arrangements also exist with a number of the Groups joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments.
The results of Partner Markets are included within Common Functions.
Partnership agreements in place as at 31 March 2007, excluding those with the Groups joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments, are as follows: Country Operator Country Operator 1 Argentina CTI Mvil Iceland Vodafone Austria A1 Indonesia XL Bahrain MTC-Vodafone Jersey Jersey Airtel Bahrain Kuwait MTC-Vodafone Belgium Proximus Latvia BITE Latvija Bermuda Digicel Lithuania Bit 1 Brazil Claro Luxembourg LUXGSM Bulgaria Mobiltel Malaysia Celcom 2 1 Caribbean Digicel Mexico Telcel 1 1 Chile Claro Nicaragua Claro 1 Colombia Comcel Norway TDC Song Croatia VIPnet Paraguay CTI Mvil 1 Cyprus CytamobileParaguay 1 Vodafone Peru Claro Peru Denmark TDC Mobil Samoa Digicel 1 Ecuador Porta Singapore Mobile One 1 El Salvador Claro Solvenia Si.
mobile-vodafone Estonia Elisa Sri Lanka Dialog Finland Elisa Sweden Telenor 1 Guatemala Claro Switzerland Swisscom 1 1 Honduras Claro Uruguay CTI Mvil Uruguay Hong Kong SmarTone-Vodafone Notes: 1 Partnership through America Mvil.
2 This includes the following countries: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Barbados, Bonaire, Curacao, the Cayman Islands, Dominica, French West Indies, Grenada, Jamaica, Haiti, St Lucia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos and British Guyana.
12 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Summary of Group mobile communications businesses at 31 March 2007 A summary of the Groups businesses and significant mobile operators in each of Vodafones markets at 31 March 2007 is provided in the following table.
Arcors principal competitor in the German fixed line market is T-Com.
Ownership interests have been rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent, with the exception of India which has been rounded down to the nearest hundredth of one percent.
2 See page 159 for a definition of a customer.
3 Venture customer growth is for the year to 31 March 2007 and is calculated based on 100% of the businesses customer base.
4 Prepaid customer percentages are calculated on a venture basis at 31 March 2007.
5 Includes significant MVNOs which do not operate a mobile telecommunications network.
6 Telfort was acquired by KPN Mobile during the 2006 financial year but continues to operate its own network.
7 The competition authority released a draft decision during the year indicating that it will not oppose the potential merger of Optimus and TMN.
8 The Egyptian Government awarded a third licence during the year.
Etisalat launched commercial services on 1 May 2007.
9 The Kenyan Government has awarded a third licence but the operator has not yet commenced service.
10 Customers in South Africa refers to the Groups interests in Vodacom Group Pty Limited and includes customers in South Africa, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Lesotho, Mozambique and Tanzania.
11 The Groups proportionate customer base in South Africa has been adjusted for its proportionate ownership of their customer base across all their network interests of approximately 91.8% at 31 March 2007.
12 This is not a full list of US network operators.
In the United States, in addition to the national operators shown, there are several regional and numerous local operators.
13 The Group does not have any jointly controlled customers in India following the change in consolidation status of Bharti Airtel from a joint venture to an investment on 11 February 2007.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 13 Business
