Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Business combinations The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Consolidated the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and Financial Statements are also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the the European Union EU, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
IFRS and IFRS as adopted by the EU differ in certain material The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair respects from US generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
For a discussion on the The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at Groups critical accounting estimates see Performance Critical Accounting the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and Estimates elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Actual results could differ from contingent liabilities recognised.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the Previously held identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period acquired entity are revalued to their fair value at the date of acquisition, being or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both the date at which the Group achieves control of the acquiree.
The movement current and future periods.
in fair value is taken to the asset revaluation surplus.
Amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in pounds Interests in joint ventures sterling, the currency of the country in which the Company is A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other incorporated.
The translation into US dollars of the Consolidated Financial parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that is, Statements as of, and for the year ended, 31 March 2007, is for convenience when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the only and has been made at the Noon Buying Rate for cable transfers as activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes on 30 March 2007.
This translation should not be The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using construed as a representation that the sterling amounts actually represented proportionate consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, have been, or could be, converted into dollars at this or any other rate.
income, expenses and cash flows of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in the results on a line-by-line basis.
Significant accounting policies Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting Accounting convention policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured Investments in associates at fair value.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Basis of consolidation Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint statements of the Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the Accounting for subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included interest in that associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting associate.
policies into line with those used by the Group.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the on consolidation.
associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the The licences of the Groups associated undertaking in the US, Verizon amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination Wireless, are indefinite lived assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the Accordingly, they are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys impairment, or when indicators exist that the carrying value is not share of changes in equity are allocated against the interests of the Group recoverable.
except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 95 Financials
