Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the profit and loss accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK generally accepted account for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of accounting principles UK GAAP.
non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the profit and loss account for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised accounting principles requires management to make estimates and directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the Borrowing costs reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates All borrowing costs are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to in which they are incurred.
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and Taxation future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
account of the Company is not presented in this Annual Report.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the balance The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 1 sheet date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less Cash flow statements and has not produced a cash flow statement.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 the tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance Related party disclosures and has not reported transactions with fellow sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and Group undertakings.
expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 29 recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has not produced any disclosures will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
required by that standard, as full FRS 29 disclosures are available in the Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the 2.
Significant accounting policies contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Companys significant accounting policies are described below.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Accounting convention Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards of the entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity UK Accounting Standards Board and pronouncements of the Urgent Issues instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual Task Force.
interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The Investments accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity Shares in Group undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for instruments are set out below.
Capital market and bank borrowings The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment which is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the value of the investment, the proceeds net of transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to its borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in received, net of direct issue costs.
fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting previously recognised in equity, determined using the weighted average costs The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign method, is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
exchange rates and interest rates.
Foreign currencies The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved In preparing the financial statements of the Company, transactions in by the board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of currencies other than the Companys functional currency are recorded at the financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary contract date, and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are reporting date.
The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the retranslated at the rate prevailing on the date when fair value was change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
144 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
