Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
US GAAP information continued US GAAP The Group has adopted SFAS No.
123 Revised 2004 using the modified FASB Interpretation No.
Under this method, the Group has adjusted the FASB Interpretation No.
48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes financial statements for the periods between 1 April 1995 and 30 September FIN 48, an interpretation of SFAS No.
109, Accounting for Income Taxes, 2005 to give effect to the fair value method of accounting for awards granted, prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the modified or settled during those periods on a basis consistent with the pro financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or forma amounts disclosed under the requirements of the original SFAS expected to be taken in a tax return.
FIN 48 also provides guidance on No.
The provisions of SFAS derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim No.
123 Revised 2004 will be applied to all awards granted, modified or periods, disclosure and transition.
The Group will adopt FIN 48 with effect settled after 1 October 2005.
The effect of applying the original provisions of from 1 April 2007 and is currently assessing the impact of the adoption of SFAS No.
123 under the modified retrospective method of adoption on the this standard on the Groups results and financial position.
year ended 31 March 2005 was to decrease loss before income taxes, loss from continuing operations and net loss by 66 million, 30 million and EITF Issue 06-1 30 million respectively six months ended 30 September 2005: increases of EITF Issue 06-1, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Service Provider to 4 million, 8 million and 8 million respectively.
The adjustment also had Manufacturers or Resellers of Equipment Necessary for an End-Customer to the effect of decreasing both basic and diluted loss per share from continuing Receive Service From the Service Provider Issue 06-1, requires the income operations and net loss by 0.05 pence six months ended 30 September statement classification of consideration provided to a manufacturer or 2005: increase 0.01 pence.
123 Revised 2004 reseller to be determined based on the form of the consideration rendered to increased shareholders equity at 1 April 2004 by 112 million.
the end customer as directed by the service provider, if the consideration is contractually linked to the benefit received by the end customer.
Under this k. Loss per share standard, cash consideration would be classified as a reduction in revenue The share options and shares described in note 20 were excluded from the while other than cash consideration would be accounted for as an expense.
calculation of diluted loss per share as the effect of their inclusion in the The Group will adopt Issue 06-1 no later than 1 April 2008 and is currently calculation would be not dilutive due to the Group recognising a loss in all assessing the impact of the adoption of this standard on the Groups results periods presented.
New accounting standards SFAS No.
157, Fair Value Measurements SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure of IFRS fair value measurements.
SFAS 157 applies to fair value measurements under The Group has not adopted the following pronouncements, which have been other existing accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value issued by the IASB, but have not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
measurements and does not require any new fair value measurements.
The Group will adopt SFAS 157 no later than 1 April 2008 and is currently IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for annual periods beginning on or assessing the impact of the adoption of this standard on the Groups results after 1 January 2009, with early application permitted.
If endorsed for use and financial position.
in the EU, the Group currently intends to adopt this standard in the 2008 financial year.
The standard is not expected to significantly impact the Group but may change the Groups disclosure in relation to segment information.
IAS 23 Revised, Borrowing Costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, with early application permitted.
This revised standard has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The Group is currently assessing the impact and expected timing of adoption of this standard on the Groups results and financial position.
The Group has not adopted the following pronouncements, which have been issued by the IASB or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The Group does not currently believe the adoption of these pronouncements will have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
IAS Amendment, Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2007, with earlier application encouraged.
This amendment has been endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRIC 10, Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006, with early application encouraged.
This interpretation has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group Treasury Share Transactions effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007, with early application permitted.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, with early application permitted.
142 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
