Documents on Display This section is further based in part upon the representations of the The Company is subject to the information requirements of the US Securities Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and and Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
with these requirements, the Company files its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These documents may be Based on this assumption, for purposes of the Treaty and the US-UK double inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located at 450 Fifth Street, taxation convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax NW Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of reference room can be obtained in the US by calling the SEC on ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares in the 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the Companys SEC filings, including Company represented by those ADSs.
Generally, exchanges of shares for all those filed on or after 4 November 2002, are available on the SECs ADRs, and ADRs for shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or to website at www.
Shareholders can also obtain copies of the UK tax, other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association from the Vodafone these taxes below.
com or from the Companys registered office.
Taxation of dividends UK Taxation Material Contracts Under current UK tax law, no withholding tax will be deducted from dividends At the date of this Annual Report, the Group is not party to any contracts that paid by the Company.
are considered material to the Groups results or operations, except for its $11.3 billion credit facilities which are discussed under Performance A shareholder that is a company resident for UK tax purposes in the United Financial Position and Resources.
Kingdom will not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the Company.
A shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom is entitled, in calculating their liability to UK income Exchange Controls tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on shares in the Company or ADSs, There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on US Federal Income Taxation the conduct of the Groups operations, except as otherwise set out under A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount of Taxation below.
any dividend paid by the Company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in tax years beginning before 1 January Taxation 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder As this is a complex area, investors should consult their own tax adviser at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days of owning and disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the Company with respect to the shares or This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, in general ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company held as capital assets A US holder is not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, however, cover the tax gross income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the consequences for members of certain classes of holders subject to special dividend actually received from the Company, and the receipt of a dividend rules including holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the does not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
The tax consequences of the return of capital and the share consolidation undertaken during the year pursuant to a B share Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of scheme are also not covered in this section.
Guidance for holders of B shares shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively in certain specific circumstances was included in the Circular for the issue of receives the dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received B shares, a copy of which is available on the Companys website at deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends www.
received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States.
Dividends paid in taxable years beginning before A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal 1 January 2007 generally will be passive or financial services income, and income tax purposes: dividends paid in taxable years beginning after 31 December 2006 generally will be passive or general income, which in either case is treated a citizen or resident of the United States: separately from other types of income for the purposes of computing any allowable foreign tax credit.
a US domestic corporation: In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income tax in income will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made, regardless of its source: or determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend distribution, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trust's into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is to be substantial decisions of the trust.
included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Generally, the gain or loss will be This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published limitation purposes.
rulings and court decisions, and on the tax laws of the United Kingdom and the Double Taxation Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom the Treaty, all as currently in effect.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 155 Shareholders Shareholder Information continued Taxation of capital gains UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax UK taxation Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the transferring shares in the Company to the Custodian of the Depositary at the disposal of the Companys shares or ADSs if the US holder is: rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax of 1.5% of the price or value of the shares, could also be payable in these purposes in the United Kingdom: circumstances, and on issue to such a person, but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
In accordance with the terms a citizen of the United States who has been resident or ordinarily resident of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable on deposits of shares by for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom, ceased to be so resident or the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary will be charged to the ordinarily resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and who party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
disposed of the shares or ADSs during that period a Temporary NonResident, unless the shares or ADSs were also acquired during that period, No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of ADSs of the Company, such liability arising on that individuals return to the UK: provided that the ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at all times outside the United Kingdom.
a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of being centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom: or A transfer of shares in the Company in registered form will attract ad valorem a citizen of the United States or a US domestic corporation that carries stamp duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
On a transfer from or agency or, in the case of US domestic companies, through a permanent nominee to beneficial owner the nominee having at all times held the establishment and that has used the shares or ADSs for the purposes of shares on behalf of the transferee under which no beneficial interest passes such trade, profession or vocation or has used, held or acquired the and which is neither a sale nor in contemplation of a sale, a fixed 5.00 stamp shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch or agency or permanent duty will be payable.
SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer shares Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are in the Company in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the generally subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant consideration for the transfer but is repayable if, within six years of the date of holder as determined under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the the agreement, an instrument transferring the shares is executed or, if the United States and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
However, individuals SDRT has not been paid, the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily who are residents of either the United Kingdom or the United States and who interest and penalties would be cancelled.
However, an agreement to have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case transfer the ADSs of the Company will not give rise to SDRT.
may be at any time during the six years immediately preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs not only in the country of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition, but also in that other country although, in respect of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that such an individual comprises a Temporary Non-Resident.
US federal income taxation A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of the Companys shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares or ADSs.
Generally, a capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised before 1 January 2011 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, provided the holder has a holding period of more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
Additional tax considerations UK inheritance tax An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of the Companys shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a transfer of the shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor, they may be subject to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
Where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
156 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
