Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland should contact: The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the Meeting, is being circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report or Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement and can be viewed at the P. O.
com start investor relations agm.
Dublin 18 Ireland The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast and can be viewed at the Companys website www.
html Telephone: 0818 300 999 Fax: 01 216 3151 on the day of the meeting and a recording will be available to view after Email: web.
Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, such as To find out more about the AGM and how to view the webcast, visit change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, should be www.
directed to the Companys Registrars at the relevant address or telephone number immediately above.
Holders of ordinary shares may also view and update details of their shareholding, after a brief registration process, via our ShareGift Registrars Investor Centre service at www.
The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who The Depositary Bank for the Companys ADR programme is: have only a very small number of shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares are The Bank of New York aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide Investor Relations Dept, P. O.
Box 11258 range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise neither to a gain Church St. Station nor a loss for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes and UK taxpayers may also be New York, NY 10286-1258 able to claim income tax relief on the value of the donation.
USA ShareGift transfer forms specifically for the Companys shareholders are Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 Toll free available from the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, and, even if the share certificate has been lost or destroyed, the gift can ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their be completed.
The service is generally free.
However, there may be an holdings to The Bank of New York at the above address or telephone number.
indemnity charge for a lost or destroyed share certificate where the value of ADS holders can also, subject to passing an identity check, view their account the shares exceeds 100.
Further details about ShareGift can be obtained balances and transaction history, sell shares and request certificates from from its website at www.
org or at 5 Lower Grosvenor Place, London their Global BuyDIRECT Plan at www.
Online Shareholder Services The Unclaimed Assets Register The Company provides a number of shareholder services online at The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, which provides a www.
com shareholder, where shareholders may: search facility for financial assets which may have been forgotten and which donates a proportion of its public search fees to a group of three UK charities register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
Benefits to Age Concern, NSPCC and Scope.
For further information, contact The shareholders include faster receipt of communications such as annual Unclaimed Assets Register, Cardinal Place, 6th Floor, 80 Victoria Street, reports, with cost and time savings for the Company.
Electronic shareholder London SW1E 5JL telephone: 44 0 870 241 1713, or visit its website at communications are also more environmentally friendly: www.
view a live webcast of the AGM of the Company on 24 July 2007.
A recording will be available to view after that date: Share Price History Upon flotation of the Company on 11 October 1988, the ordinary shares were view and or download the Annual Report and the Annual Review & valued at 170 pence each.
On 16 September 1991, when the Company was Summary Financial Statement 2007: finally demerged, for UK taxpayers the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares was apportioned between the Company and Racal Electronics Plc for check the current share price: Capital Gains Tax purposes in the ratio of 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
calculate dividend payments: and Opening share prices on 16 September 1991 were 332 pence for each Vodafone share and 223 pence for each Racal share.
use interactive tools to calculate the value of shareholdings, look up the historic price on a particular date and chart Vodafone ordinary share price On 21 July 1994, the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for changes against indices.
every one then held and, on 30 September 1999, it effected a bonus issue of four new shares for every one held at that date.
The flotation and demerger Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive Company press share prices, therefore, may be restated as 11.333 pence and 22.133 pence, releases, including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering respectively.
for Vodafone News via the Companys website at www.
com start misc register for news.
The share price on 25 May 2007 was 151.4 pence.
Registering for Vodafone News will enable users to: The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported high access the latest news from their mobile: and and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange, ii the reported high and low sales prices of ordinary shares on the have news automatically e-mailed to them.
Frankfurt Stock Exchange, and iii the reported high and low sales prices of ADSs on the NYSE.
Annual General Meeting The twenty-third AGM of the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on 24 July 2007 at 11.00 a. m. Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 151 Shareholders
