Shareholder Information Takeovers Directive Appointment and replacement of directors The current articles require that at the annual general meeting Following the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive one third of the directors shall retire from ofce but shall be into UK law, the following description provides the required eligible for re-appointment.
Any director who has been appointed information for shareholders where not already provided by the Board since the previous annual general meeting or has elsewhere in this report.
"This summary is based on the held ofce for three years or more since he was appointed or Company's current articles of association the ""current articles"" last re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall but please note that the Company will propose that a new retire at the next following annual general meeting and be set of articles of association be adopted at this year's annual eligible for re-appointment."
general meeting, details of which are set out in the notice of the annual general meeting.
The current articles authorise the Board to appoint directors and remove a director from ofce.
Share capital As at 28 December 2007, the Companys issued share capital Shares held by the Employee benefit Trust comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, as Trustee of The Details of the ordinary share capital can be found in note 25 Weir Group Employee Trust, holds through their nominee K. B. to the Group financial statements.
CI Nominees Limited 0.02% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 28 December 2007 in trust for the benefit of Voting rights certain executive directors and senior executives of the Group.
The Company's current articles provide that on a show of hands at The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares Trustee.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting the shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to t, without incurring any liability and without being required to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice give reasons for its decision.
of the annual general meeting species deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation Amendment of the Company's articles of association to resolutions to be passed at the annual general meeting.
All proxy The current articles may only be amended by a Special Resolution votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2008 annual relation to each resolution are announced at the annual general general meeting a Special Resolution will be put to shareholders meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
proposing amendments to the Companys current articles to take into account provisions of the new Companies Act 2006.
Transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Repurchase of shares Company, other than as contained in the current articles: The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last annual general meeting held on 9 May 2007 to buy back up to 20.8m The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving ordinary shares which remains outstanding until the conclusion any reason for it, refuse to register any transfer of any of the next annual general meeting on 7 May 2008.
The directors certicated share which is not fully paid up but not so as to will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place and on account market considerations prevailing at the time, other which the Company has a lien as a result of such share not investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the being fully paid up.
The Board may also refuse to register any overall position of the Company.
The directors will only purchase instrument of transfer of a certicated share unless it is lodged such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings at the registered ofce, or such other place as the Board may per share and the benets for shareholders.
decide, for registration, accompanied by a certicate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Board significant agreements may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor: The Company is not aware of any agreements between Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer and regulations for example, insider trading laws : of securities and or voting rights.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
108 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 There are no agreements between the Company and its directors With effect from 28 June 1993, each ordinary share of 25p was or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p and the market employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy value of an ordinary share as at 31 March 1982 takes account or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Companys of the sub-division.
banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable Shareholder communications if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating You can now register to receive shareholder communications of the Company.
annual reports, interim reports and other company communications electronically and also appoint a proxy and vote electronically Powers of the directors provided you have internet access and a valid e-mail address.
The business of the Company will be managed by the Board To register, you will need your Shareholder Reference Number who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the SRN, which is given on your share certicate or tax dividend provisions of the Company's memorandum of association, the voucher.
This service is provided in conjunction with our registrars, current articles and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
To obtain more information and register for this service, please visit Registrars www-uk.
The Companys registrars are Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, Website BS99 7NH.
You may wish to view the Company website containing details of Group activities and investor information including the notice Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, of the annual general meeting and the full annual report.
change of address, loss of share certicate, etc.
should be addressed The address is: www.
to Computershare Investor Services PLC at the above address.
The registrars provide an on-line service that enables shareholders Share dealing services to access details of their Weir Group shareholdings.
A shareholder Share dealing services have been established with the Companys wishing to view the information, together with additional registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC which provide information such as indicative share prices and details of recent shareholders with an easy way to buy or sell Weir Group shares dividends, should visit www-uk.
on the London Stock Exchange.
Dividends payment direct to banks Internet share dealing commission is just 0.5%, subject to a minimum charge of 15.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building society is payable on purchases.
There is no need to open an account in account using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
Real time dealing is available during market hours.
This means that your dividend will be in your account on the same In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside day the Company makes the payment.
Your tax voucher will be of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
posted directly to your own address.
Shareholders who have not To access the service, log on to www.
yet arranged to use this method of payment, can telephone the Shareholders should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears registrars on 0870 702 0010.
The Company encourages you to on share certicates and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card have your dividends paid direct to a bank or building society.
will be required for purchases.
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to shareholders in certain European Annual general meeting jurisdictions.
Please refer to the website for an up-to-date list The annual general meeting will be held in the Lecture Room, of these countries.
The Burrell Collection, Pollok Park, Glasgow on 7 May 2008 at 11am.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a general meeting are contained in the shareholders circular.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
The service is available from 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, Taxation on telephone number 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should have For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of The their SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN appears on share Weir Group PLC ordinary shares as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
certicates and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p required for purchases.
Detailed terms and conditions are available per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven on request by telephoning 0870 703 0119.
Please note this ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident in of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and the UK and Ireland.
in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 109 Shareholder Information Continued These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the applicable terms and conditions.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold Weir Group shares.
Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
To the extent that this statement is a financial promotion for the share dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Services PLC, it has been approved by Computershare Investor Services PLC for the purpose of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Where this has been received in a country where the provision of such a service would be contrary to local laws or regulations, this should be treated as information only.
Voting Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our registrars by visiting www-uk.
Online share management As part of our commitment to improve shareholder communications our registrars now offer you a free, secure share management website.
Managing your shares online means you can access information quickly, securely and minimise postal communications.
This service will allow you to: view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares: elect to receive your shareholder communications online: calculate the total market price of each shareholding: view price histories and trading graphs: update bank mandates and change address details: and use online dealing services.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at www-uk.
com investor and enter your Shareholder Reference Number and Company Code this information can be found on the last tax dividend voucher or your share certicate.
110 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 111 112 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Financial Highlights 2007 Group results - continuing operations Financial Calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 2 2 1 Revenue Operating profit Pre-tax profit Order input 30 April 2008 1,060.6m 122.1m 120.2m 1,095.3m Up 22% Up 57% Up 56% Up 10% Record date for final dividend 2 May 2008 2 Earnings per share Dividend Net debt Annual General Meeting 41.4p 16.5p 171.3m 7 May 2008 Up 49% Up 14% Final dividend paid 60 20 2 June 2008 45 15 1 Calculated at 2007 average exchange rates 30 10 2 Adjusted to exclude intangibles amortisation and exceptional items shareholders on the register at this date will receive the dividend 15 5 2006 2007 2006 2007 Registered office & company number 27.8p 41.4p 14.5p 16.5p Clydesdale Bank Exchange 20 Waterloo Street Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland Registered in Scotland Company Number 2934 Contents: The Reports Group Financial Statements 1 2007 Highlights 46 Directors Statement of Responsibilities 2 Chairmans Statement 47 Independent Auditors Report 4 Our geographic footprint 48 Consolidated Income Statement 6 Chief Executives Review 49 Consolidated Balance Sheet 9 Operational Review 50 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 19 Financial Review 51 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income & Expense 22 Board of Directors 52 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 24 Directors Report 29 Corporate Governance Statement Company Financial Statements 32 Audit Committee Report 96 Directors Statement of Responsibilities 33 Nomination Committee Report 97 Independent Auditors Report 34 Remuneration Committee Report 98 Company Balance Sheet 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 99 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 107 Principal Companies of the Group 108 Shareholder Information Inside back cover - Financial Calendar Designed by Design Motive Printed by Royle Print The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 The Weir Group PLC The Weir Group PLC Excellent Clydesdale Bank Exchange Annual Report 2007 Engineering 20 Waterloo Street Solutions Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland Telephone: 44 0 141 637 7111 Facsimile: 44 0 141 221 9789 Email: investor-relations@weir.
