48723 MG Annual Report - End 17 4 08 11:37 Page 93 Notice of AGM | 93 Annual General Meeting to be held at 3pm on 19 May 2008 The Notice of Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 3pm on Monday, 19 May 2008, at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QJ, is set out on pages 93 to 100.
The action to be taken by Shareholders is set out on page 95.
This Document Is Important And Requires Your Immediate Attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to consult immediately your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial advisor duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if you reside elsewhere, another appropriately authorised financial advisor.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in Wellstream Holdings PLC the Company please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee of your ordinary shares or to the bank, stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
48723 MG Annual Report - End 17 4 08 11:37 Page 94 94 | Notice of AGM continued Wellstream Holdings PLC Wellstream House Wincomblee Road Walker Riverside Newcastle upon Tyne NE6 3PF Tel: 44 0 191 295 9000 Fax: 44 0 191 295 9001 Letter from the Chairman 16 April 2008 Dear Shareholder 2008 Annual General Meeting It is my great pleasure to be writing to you enclosing the Notice convening the first Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held at 3pm on Monday, 19 May 2008 at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QJ.
The Notice details the business to be considered at the meeting and is set out on pages 96 to 98 of this document.
The purpose of this letter is to explain certain elements of that business to you.
A summary of the action to be taken by Shareholders is set out at the end of this letter, on page 95.
This year, as well as the ordinary business usually dealt with at an Annual General Meeting AGM, there are four additional items of special business Resolutions 12 to 15.
The ordinary business includes motions to re-elect individually all of the directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, a director of the Company appointed by the board may only hold office until the next following AGM, unless reappointed at that AGM.
Further, a director appointed more than three years prior to an AGM must also retire from office at that AGM.
Those directors who were appointed by the board in 2007 will be proposed for election at the AGM see Resolutions 3 to 6.
All the remaining directors were appointed more than three years prior to the AGM and so will also be proposed for re-election at the AGM see Resolutions 7 to 10.
Short biographical details of each director appear on pages 34 and 35 of the Annual Report.
Having considered the performance of and contribution made by each of the directors, the board remains satisfied that the performance of each director continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and, as such, recommends their re-election.
On 8 April 2008, Candover, a major shareholder, sold its shares in the Company, as announced to the London Stock Exchange.
Consequently Nils Stoesser, their representative on the Board, resigned as a non-executive director on 8 April 2008.
Because this was after the date of the Annual Report 1 April but before the date of this letter to you, references in the Annual Report do not reflect the fact of the share sale or Nils Stoessers resignation.
I would like to thank Nils for his very valuable contribution and support over the years.
We appreciated his counsel and wish him well for the future.
The four additional items of special business for consideration at the AGM, of which resolutions 13, 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions, are explained in this letter: Resolutions 12 and 13 - directors power to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption rights Resolution 12 will be proposed to continue the directors authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 331,900, being slightly under one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital on 16 April 2008.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the end of the next AGM or 20 August 2009, unless renewed at the AGM in 2009.
The directors do not intend to exercise the authority, however they do consider it prudent to maintain the flexibility that this authority provides.
If shares are being issued for cash, the Companies Act 1985 says that they must in the first instance be offered to existing Shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 13 will be proposed to continue the directors power to allot new ordinary shares for cash otherwise than in proportion to existing holdings.
In the case of allotments other than for rights issues or other pre-emptive offers, the authority is limited to shares representing an aggregate nominal amount of 49,789.88, amounting to 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
This power will expire at the earlier of the end of the next AGM or 20 August 2009, unless renewed at the AGM in 2009.
48723 MG Annual Report - End 17 4 08 11:37 Page 95 Notice of AGM continued | 95 Resolution 14 - Power to purchase shares Resolution 14 will be proposed to enable the Company to purchase in the market up to a maximum of 9,957,975 ordinary shares representing 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital on 16 April 2008 for cancellation at a minimum price of 0.01 per share and a maximum price of not more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased.
This authority will lapse on the earlier of the end of the next AGM or 20 August 2009, unless renewed at the AGM in 2009.
The directors would not expect to purchase ordinary shares in the market unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they considered that to do so would enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
Further, the directors expect that if any ordinary shares were to be purchased, such shares would be cancelled.
Any purchases made by the Company will be announced no later than 7.30am on the business day following the transaction.
Resolution 15 - Adoption of new Articles of Association Resolution 15 will be proposed to adopt new Articles of Association in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the new Articles of Association are summarised in the Appendix on pages 99 to 100 of this document.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarificatory nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes brought in by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix.
Copies of the proposed new Articles of Association marked to show the proposed amendments are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Wellstream House, Wincomblee Road, Walker Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE6 3PF, and at Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JJ, during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the close of the AGM and a copy will also be available for inspection at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QJ from 2.45pm on Monday 19 May 2008 until the end of the meeting.
Action to be taken by Shareholders Accompanying this document are the Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and a Form of Proxy.
You are asked to complete and sign the Form of Proxy and return it to the Companys registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR by 3pm on Thursday 15 May 2008.
A map showing how to get to Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QJ has also been included.
Recommendation The directors consider that all the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and recommend you to vote in favour of them, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
John W. Kennedy Chairman 48723 MG Annual Report - End 17 4 08 11:37 Page 96 96 | Notice of AGM continued NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the FIRST ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company will be held at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QJ on Monday, 19 May 2008 at 3pm.
Resolutions 13 to 15 will be proposed as Special Resolutions and the remainder as Ordinary Resolutions.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, items 1 to 11 are Ordinary Business and items 12 to 15 are deemed Special Business.
Resolution 1 To receive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007, together with the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Resolution 2 To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Resolution 3 To elect Mr Neil Gaskell as a director of the Company.
Resolution 4 To elect Mr Christopher Gill as a director of the Company.
Resolution 5 To elect Mr Francisco Gros as a director of the Company.
Resolution 6 To elect Mr Patrick Murray as a director of the Company.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Mr Christopher Braithwaite as a director of the Company.
Resolution 8 To re-elect Mr Gordon Chapman as a director of the Company.
Resolution 9 To re-elect Sir Graham Hearne as a director of the Company.
Resolution 10 To re-elect Mr John Kennedy as a director of the Company.
Resolution 11 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2007.
Resolution 12 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 331,900 for a period expiring on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 20 August 2009, but the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
"48723 MG Annual Report - End 17 4 08 11:37 Page 97 Notice of AGM continued | 97 Resolution 13 THAT, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 12, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"" to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the general authority conferred by resolution 12 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution: A will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 20 August 2009, but the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after expiry of this power and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and B is limited to: i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights issue: and ii allotments of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph B i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 49,789.88."
"For the purpose of this resolution 13, ""rights issue"" means an offer of equity securities, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary shares made in proportion as nearly as may be to their respective existing holdings of ordinary shares but subject to the directors having a right to make such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with the offer as they deem necessary or expedient: a to deal with equity securities representing fractional entitlements: and b to deal with legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange, or any other matter whatsoever."
The power conferred on the directors by this resolution 13 shall also apply to a sale of treasury shares, which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Act, but with the omission of the words pursuant to the general authority conferred by resolution 12.
Resolution 14 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 0.01 each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 9,957,975 representing 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 0.01: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased: d this authority expires the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 20 August 2009: and the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
48723 MG Annual Report - End 17 4 08 11:37 Page 98 98 | Notice of AGM continued Resolution 15 THAT the form of the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be and are hereby adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for and to the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association of the Company.
By order of the Board Rob Lamb Company Secretary 16 April 2008 Registered Office: Wellstream House Wincomblee Road Walker Riverside Newcastle upon Tyne NE6 3PF Registered in England and Wales No.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
A person who is not a member of the Company, but has been nominated by a member of the Company the relevant member to enjoy information rights the nominated person, does not have a right to appoint any proxies under note 1 above.
A nominated person may have a right under an agreement with the relevant member to be appointed or to have somebody else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a nominated person does not have such a right, or has such a right and does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under an agreement with the relevant member to give instructions as to the exercise of voting rights.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be deposited at the Companys registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR by 3pm on Saturday 17 May 2008.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
Delivery or receipt of an appointment of proxy does not prevent a member attending and voting in person at the meeting.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the relevant register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 17 May 2008 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of members after 6pm on 17 May 2008 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
The register referred to in note 4 means the issuer register of members and the operator register of members maintained in accordance with Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Copies of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors of the Company and a copy of the Articles of Association of the Company marked to show the proposed amendments will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Wellstream House, Wincomblee Road, Walker Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE6 3PF, and at Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ, during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice until the close of the AGM and will also be available for inspection at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QJ from 2.45pm on Monday 19 May 2008 until the end of the meeting.
At 15 April 2008 being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice the issued share capital of the Company consists of 99,579,750 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 15 April 2008 are 99,579,750.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate Shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that Shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate Shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate Shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate Shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Appendix Explanatory Notes on Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the current Articles of Association, which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006, are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
The main changes proposed to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Form of resolution The current Articles of Association contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
Variation of class rights The current Articles of Association contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
The relevant provisions have therefore been amended in the new Articles of Association.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the current Articles of Association dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular a general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice, whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the current Articles of Association proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the Shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may also be appointed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The new Articles of Association reflect all of these new provisions.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, provided that the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The new Articles of Association give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and, secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the new Articles of Association should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new Articles of Association and in some areas to conform the language of the new Articles of Association.
