infORmATiOn fOR SHAREHOLdERS COmPAny SECRETARy And REGiSTEREd OffiCE Ian Houghton, WH Smith PLC, Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX.
WH Smith PLC is registered in England and Wales Number 5202036.
COmPAny WEBSiTE This annual report and accounts together with other information can be found on the WH Smith PLC website at www.
AnnuAL GEnERAL mEETinG The Annual General Meeting will be held at the CBI Conference Centre, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU on Thursday 31 January 2008 at 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting sets out the business to be transacted.
Ordinary shareholders who wish to attend the meeting should detach the Attendance Card from the Form of Proxy and present it at the registrars desk on arrival.
fORm Of PROxy A Form of Proxy is enclosed for those ordinary shareholders unable to attend the Annual General Meeting.
To be effective it must be completed and lodged with the Companys registrars, Equiniti, by not later than 11.30am on 29 January 2008.
ELECTROniC PROxy vOTinG You may if you wish register the appointment of a proxy for the meeting electronically, by logging onto the website www.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
You will need to have your Form of Proxy to hand when you log on as it has information required in the process.
CREST members may appoint a proxy electronically via Equiniti ID 7RA01.
REGiSTRARS On 1 October 2007 the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, changed their name to Equiniti.
If you have any enquiries about your shareholding in WH Smith PLC or wish to advise of a change of address, please contact Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA telephone 0870 600 3970.
A textphone facility for shareholders with hearing difficulties is available by telephoning 0870 600 3950.
In addition, Equiniti provides a range of shareholder information online at www.
co. uk to register for this service you will need your shareholder reference number which can be found on the Form of Proxy.
finAnCiAL CALEndAR Financial year end 31 August 2007 Half-year end 29 February 2008 Results announced 11 October 2007 Interim results announced April 2008 Annual Report posted November 2007 Interim dividend ex-dividend date May 2008 Interim Management Statement November 2007 Interim dividend record date May 2008 Final dividend ex-dividend date 9 January 2008 Interim dividend payment date June 2008 Final dividend record date 11 January 2008 Interim Management Statement July 2008 Christmas trading statement January 2008 Financial year end 31 August 2008 AGM 31 January 2008 Results announced October 2008 Final dividend payment date 6 February 2008 The dividend dates shown above are in respect of the Companys ordinary shares of 20p.
SHARE dEALinG SERviCES The Company has arranged for Shareview Dealing, a telephone and internet share dealing service offered by Equiniti, to be made available to UK shareholders wishing to buy or sell the Companys shares.
For telephone dealing call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
You will need your shareholder reference number shown on your share certificate.
JPMorgan Cazenove provides a postal share dealing service for private investors who wish to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Further details are available from JPMorgan Cazenove, telephone 020 7155 5155.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 87 infORmATiOn fOR SHAREHOLdERS COnTinuEd SHAREGifT If you only have a small number of shares which are uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to charity under ShareGIFT, a charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
A ShareGIFT transfer form may be obtained from Equiniti.
Further information about the Scheme can be found on the ShareGIFT website at www.
uk CAPiTAL GAinS TAx demerger 31 August 2006 Following the demerger of the Company on 31 August 2006, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses arising on the disposal of shares after 31 August 2006, the original tax base cost of your ordinary shares of 13 2 81p adjusted if you held your shares at 24 September 2004 and 22 May 1998 to take into account the capital reorganisations of 27 September 2004 and 26 May 1998 respectively see below will be apportioned between the shareholdings of ordinary shares of 20p in the Company and ordinary shares of 5p in Smiths News in the ratio of 0.69585 and 0.30415 respectively.
Capital reorganisation 27 September 2004 If you acquired your shareholding on or before 24 September 2004, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or 5 losses arising on the disposal of shares after 24 September, the original tax base cost of your ordinary shares of 55 9p adjusted if you held your shares as at 22 May 1998 to take into account the capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 13 see below will have to be apportioned between the shareholdings of ordinary shares of 2 81p and C shares 13 resulting from the capital reorganisation.
The cost of your shareholding of ordinary shares of 2 81p is calculated 5 by multiplying the original base cost of your ordinary shares of 55 9p adjusted where necessary to take into account the capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 referred to above by 0.73979.
5 The cost of the C shares is calculated by multiplying the original base cost of your ordinary shares of 55 9p again adjusted where necessary, to take into account the capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 referred to above by 0.26021.
Capital reorganisation 26 may 1998 If you acquired your shareholding on or before 22 May 1998, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses arising on the disposal of shares after 22 May 1998, the original tax base cost of your ordinary shares of 50p will 5 have to be apportioned between the shareholdings of ordinary shares of 55 9p and redeemable B shares resulting from the capital reorganisation.
5 The cost of your shareholding of ordinary shares of 55 9p is calculated by multiplying the original cost of your ordinary shares of 50p by 0.90714.
The cost of the B shares is calculated by multiplying the original cost of your ordinary shares of 50p by 0.09286. mARCH 1982 vALuES 31 March 1982 base values per share: Arising from an original shareholding of A ordinary B ordinary shares shares Ordinary shares of 20p 61.62p 50.92p Smiths News PLC ordinary shares of 5p 26.93p 22.25p Old WH Smith B shares 7.94p 6.56p Old WH Smith C shares 22.42p 18.53p 3 Old WH Smith 5 4 per cent cumulative preference shares of 1 each 42.50p 1 Old WH Smith 5 8 per cent redeemable unsecured loan stock 33.25 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 88 SPiNE 7mm FOLd Out 160mm wide iNSidE FRONt COvER 170mm wide iNSidE BACK COvER 170mm wide WHSmitH At A gLANCE OuR tWO CORE BuSiNESSES ABOut uS HigH StREEt tRAvEL Overall WHSmith employs approximately 16,000 staff WH Smith PLC, one of the UKs leading retailers, across the UK.
2007 HIGHLIGHTS 2007 HIGHLIGHTS is made up of two core businesses High Street WH Smith PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange Sales 961m 2006: 1,021m Sales 338m 2006: 319m and Travel.
SMWH and is part of the FTSE 250 Index.
1 1 Profit 44m 2006: 42m Profit 36m 2006: 31m Our extensive store portfolio spans high streets, A commitment to the principles of corporate High Street sells a wide range of Newspapers, Magazines, Travel sells a tailored range of Newspapers, Magazines, airports, train stations and motorway service areas responsibility is at the heart of the WHSmith brand.
Stationery, Books and Entertainment products.
Books and Confectionery products for people on the move.
In 2007, we achieved a Gold ranking in Business Our objective is to be Britains most popular high street Our objective is to grow the business by securing new WHSmith Direct www.
co. uk serves in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
contracts and developing new formats.
customers on the internet 24 hours a day.
in recognition of our achievements in this area.
The following definitions apply throughout this report unless the context requires otherwise: As part of a franchise agreement with Post Office Limited, This year, Travel established a presence in a new channel, Company means WH Smith PLC, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 5202036: 77 Post Offices will be re-located to WHSmith High Street motorway service areas, opening 85 stores under Group means the Company and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings: stores by Autumn 2008. franchise agreements with Moto and Welcome Break.
Old WH Smith means the Company formerly known as WH Smith PLC, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 471941 and which was the holding We have a total of 544 High Street stores 2006: 543 The business operates from 309 units 2006: 205 units, company of the WH Smith Group prior to the demerger: stores, located in 399 out of the top 400 UK high streets.
in airports, railway stations and motorway service areas, Smiths News means Smiths News PLC, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 5195191 and which became the holding company of the WH Smith News business following the demerger: as well as other locations including hospitals and bus Stores range in size from 777 square feet to more than WH Smith Group means Old WH Smith and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings: stations, and one non-UK store located in Paris.
23,000 square feet, with a total of 3m square feet of WH Smith News means the business carried on by Old WH Smith prior to the demerger and by Smiths News following the demerger of wholesaling and distributing newspapers and magazines to retailers and supplying other services to publishers and retailers: and selling space as of 31 August 2007 2006: 3m square feet.
Our Travel stores range in size from 90 square feet to more than 6,000 square feet, with a total of 0.2m square WH Smith Retail business means the business carried on by Old WH Smith prior to the demerger and by the Company following the demerger of retailing through High Street and Travel Retail outlets.
feet of selling space, excluding motorway service areas, Designed and produced by Wardour.
co. uk Photography by James Deavin and Johanna Ward 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment Printed by Belmont Press.
indd 2 19 11 07 17:39:34 WH Smith PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 SPiNE 7mm wide BACK COvER 170mm wide FRONt COvER 170mm wide FOLd Out 160mm wide WH Smith PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 www.
co. uk WH SmitH PLC mEdiA RELAtiONS tRAvEL Greenbridge Road t 020 7851 8850 3rd Floor, 180 Wardour Street WH Smith PLC is one of the Swindon, Wiltshire, SN3 3RX W www.
com media London, W1F 8FY United Kingdom United Kingdom t 01793 616 161 RECRuitmENt t 020 7851 8800 F 01793 562 560 W www.
co. uk F 020 7851 8847 UKs leading retail groups.
com HigH StREEt CORPORAtE RESPONSiBiLitY Greenbridge Road WHSmitH CuStOmER SERviCE We aim to be Britains most W www.
com cr Swindon, Wiltshire, SN3 3LD Freepost SCE4410 United Kingdom Swindon, Wiltshire, SN3 3XS iNvEStOR RELAtiONS t 01793 616 161 United Kingdom t 020 7851 8820 F 01793 562 560 t 0871 770 4444 popular bookseller, W www.
co. uk stationer and newsagent.
indd 1 19 11 07 17:38:55 BACK COVER FRONT COVER FOLD OUT 168mm wide WH Smith PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2007 www.
co. uk WH SmiTH PLC mEDiA RELATiONS TRAVEL Greenbridge Road T 020 7851 8850 3rd Floor, 180 Wardour Street Swindon, Wiltshire, SN3 3RX W www.
com media London, W1F 8FY WH Smith PLC is one of the United Kingdom United Kingdom T 01793 616 161 RECRUiTmENT T 020 7851 8800 F 01793 562 560 W www.
com HigH STREET CORPORATE RESPONSiBiLiTY Greenbridge Road WHSmiTH CUSTOmER SERViCE W www.
com cr Swindon, Wiltshire, SN3 3LD Freepost SCE4410 We aim to be Britains most United Kingdom Swindon, Wiltshire, SN3 3XS iNVESTOR RELATiONS T 01793 616 161 United Kingdom T 020 7851 8820 F 01793 562 560 T 0871 770 4444 popular bookseller, stationer W www.
indd 1 19 11 07 17:37:03 BACK COVER FRONT COVER FOLD OUT 168mm wide WH Smith PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2007 www.
indd 1 19 11 07 17:37:03 FOLD OUT iNSiDE FRONT COVER iNSiDE BACK COVER 168mm wide WHSmiTH AT A gLANCE OUR TWO CORE BUSiNESSES ABOUT US HigH STREET TRAVEL WH Smith PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange WH Smith PLC, one of the UKs leading retailers, is made SMWH and is part of the FTSE 250 Index.
2007 HIGHLIGHTS 2007 HIGHLIGHTS up of two core businesses High Street and Travel.
A commitment to the principles of corporate responsibility Sales 961m 2006: 1,021m Sales 338m 2006: 319m Our extensive store portfolio spans high streets, airports, is at the heart of the WHSmith brand.
In 2007, we achieved 1 1 Profit 44m 2006: 42m Profit 36m 2006: 31m train stations and motorway service areas across the UK.
a Gold ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate High Street sells a wide range of Newspapers, Magazines, Travel sells a tailored range of Newspapers, Magazines, Responsibility Index in recognition of our achievements WHSmith Direct www.
co. uk serves customers Stationery, Books and Entertainment products.
on the internet 24 hours a day.
Our objective is to be Britains most popular high street Our objective is to grow the business by securing new Overall WHSmith employs approximately 16,000 staff stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
and pension service charges R934 WHSmith SFS IFC AWk.
indd 2 19 11 07 17:37:43 FOLD OUT iNSiDE FRONT COVER iNSiDE BACK COVER 168mm wide WHSmiTH AT A gLANCE OUR TWO CORE BUSiNESSES ABOUT US HigH STREET TRAVEL WH Smith PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange WH Smith PLC, one of the UKs leading retailers, is made SMWH and is part of the FTSE 250 Index.
indd 2 19 11 07 17:37:43 grOuP aT a gLaNCE fiNaNCiaL HigHLigHTS CONTENTS WH Smith PLC has delivered 1 Group at a Glance 2 Chairmans Statement another year of strong profit 4 Summary business review 1 WHSmith High Street performance, with Group profits WHSmith Travel 10 Board of Directors up 29% and strong free cash 11 Summary Directors report 14 Summary remuneration report flow of 81m.
21 Summary financial review 26 Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC The Travel business grew 27 Information for shareholders strongly and the High Street business made further progress in line with its plan.
PrOfiT bEfOrE ExCEPTiONaL iTEmS aNd TaxaTiON m 66 5 39 2005 2006 2007 2 The summary financial statement on pages 11 to 26 is a summary of information in the uNdErLyiNg diLuTEd EarNiNgS PEr SHarE pence Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
The directors report, accounts and auditors report, which is unqualified and did not contain a statement under s237 2 of the Companies Act 29.3 1985, are contained in a separate publication entitled Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
These are not the Groups statutory financial statements and other information required by s240 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The summary financial statement does 23.3 not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company and of the Group, and of their polices and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as would be provided by the full 6.8 annual financial statements and reports.
Members requiring more detailed financial information have the right to obtain, free of charge, a copy of the Companys last full financial statements and reports.
Members who wish to receive, free of charge, a copy of the full annual financial statements and reports for the year ended 31 August 2007 or who wish to receive all financial statements and reports in place of summary financial statement for all future years should go to the Company's website www.
com or write to the Company Secretary at: The Company Secretary 2005 2006 2007 WH Smith PLC Greenbridge Road Swindon 1 Profit before tax and exceptional items Wiltshire SN3 3RX 2 Profit after tax and before exceptional items diluted Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC CHairmaNS STaTEmENT fOCuSEd ON SHarEHOLdEr VaLuE This year, WH Smith PLCs first as a Group focused solely on retail, saw further progress in both our High Street and Travel divisions.
We continued to concentrate on creating shareholder value by improving our profitability and customer offering.
The Group is now better balanced, with value more evenly split between the two businesses and key trading periods spread throughout the year, with a summer peak for our Travel business and a Christmas peak for High Street.
It is now three years since we embarked on our turnaround plan and we are pleased to have delivered a 600m improvement in shareholder return during that time.
Although Group revenues were down 3 per cent at 1.3bn, Group profit before tax and exceptional items was 29 per cent ahead of last year at 66m.
This is a very good result, particularly in light of continued competitive trading in our markets during 2006 07.
This strong performance has led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 8.1p, demonstrating its confidence in the outlook for the business.
In High Street, our staff made significant progress in The Group is now better balanced, the delivery of our plan.
Margins were up, reflecting our strategy of rebalancing the mix of our business with value more evenly split towards our core categories, together with successful cost control.
Our Travel staff also worked hard to drive between the two businesses growth, with the expansion of the division into a new and key trading periods spread channel: the motorway service area market.
The focus for our High Street business remains throughout the year.
unchanged: we aim to improve gross margins by building authority in our core categories, manage rObErT WaLkEr, CHairmaN the mix of products better, and keep a tight control of costs.
This approach continues to bear fruit, enabling 1 us to improve profitability by 5 per cent, despite sales falling in a challenging market.
As part of our commitment to strengthening our authority in the core categories of Stationery, Books and News and Impulse, we have an active programme of category reviews which is helping to improve our High Street customer offer.
This activity is particularly effective in Stationery, with encouraging customer reaction to the revised ranges in areas such as pens, Christmas seasonal items and PC consumables.
A wide range of innovative offers and promotions, especially in News, Magazines and Books, ensures that we are giving customers better value.
Following a successful trial of Post Office franchises in six WHSmith stores, in April we announced an agreement with Post Office Limited to open Post Offices within 71 WHSmith High Street stores in addition to the six trial stores.
This commitment secures the future of main Post Office services in these towns, meaning local people will retain access to the full range of more than 170 Post Office services from a convenient location in the heart of their community.
We believe the partnership is good news for both Post Office and WHSmith customers.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 2 There is an excellent fit between these two well-known the second WHSmith Community Awards, which high street brands and the complementary products recognise the excellent work teams in our stores and and services will enhance our own customer offering.
head office do in their local communities, working with local schools, charities and other community groups.
Our Travel business turned in another solid performance, Awards went to 20 teams across the UK who have all 1 with sales and profit growth of 6 per cent and 16 per set a great example by building strong links with local cent respectively.
We continue to improve promotions good causes.
and displays, for example by extending our books charts to help time-pressed travellers.
Following the introduction We are working hard to reduce the environmental of tighter airport security measures last year, our impact of our business.
New carrier bag designs customers are spending more time airside than introduced in 2006 have already delivered a 28 per cent landside.
We responded quickly to this trend, adjusting reduction in the amount of plastic used.
We are now staffing levels and ranges and improving fixtures to taking this a step further: when a customer chooses increase space airside, ensuring the right products not to take a carrier bag, we make a donation to the are available in the right place.
Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
Our target is to fund the planting of 10,000 trees Travel also grew in new areas, most notably with by the end of 2008. the rollout of our motorway services offer.
We have established a strong presence in this new channel, The annual Business in the Communitys Corporate bringing WHSmith products direct to the motorist for Responsibility Index provides an opportunity for us to the first time.
Following successful trials, we opened benchmark our corporate responsibility performance WHSmith franchises in 50 Moto and 35 Welcome Break against other leading UK companies.
We were delighted locations and are now developing further opportunities to improve our performance for the fourth successive in this market.
We remain committed to managing our impact on society and the environment, Our staff can justly be proud of these results.
Over while exploring ways in which corporate responsibility the past three years their hard work, loyalty and can enhance our business performance.
determination have increased WHSmiths Group 2 profit by 235 per cent from 20m to 67m.
This year sees a change to the WH Smith PLC Board with MT Rainey retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, when she will have served two three-year terms as a Non-Executive Director.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank her for her contribution, It is now three years since we commitment and service to the Company during the past six years and wish her well in the future.
embarked on our turnaround Looking ahead, we expect the Christmas season to plan and we are pleased to have be very competitive, and we have planned accordingly.
I am confident we will make good progress in delivered a 600m improvement in implementing the initiatives we have planned to deliver shareholder return during that time.
Thank you for your support.
robert Walker Chairman, WH Smith PLC Our people are crucial to the success of our business 11 October 2007 and we work hard to make sure that all employees, whether in head office, stores or distribution centres, have access to the tools they need to develop their careers.
In stores, we have established programmes to develop potential supervisors, store managers and area or district managers.
Around 100 delegates attended the store manager development programme this year, with more than two thirds receiving promotion upon completion of the course.
In head office, highpotential employees are given the opportunity to take part in our Fast Track Academy programme, which 1 prepares them for future senior management roles.
Profit from trading operations is defined as operating profit after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and We are also proud of our continuing efforts to support before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation.
2 the communities in which we operate.
This year saw Group operating profit before exceptional items.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 3 Summary buSiNESS rEViEW fOCuSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH WH Smith PLC, one of the UKs leading retail groups, is made up of two core businesses High Street and Travel.
High Street sells a wide range of Newspapers, Magazines, Stationery, Books and Entertainment products and Travel sells a tailored selection of Newspapers, Magazines, Books and Confectionery for people on the move.
WHSmiths outlets are frequently first choice for people on the high street and we are a trusted convenience retailer for customers at travel locations.
We have an extensive store portfolio operating from 544 High Street stores and 309 Travel units, with market-leading positions in Books, Magazines and Stationery.
Overall, WHSmith employs approximately 16,000 staff across the UK.
WHSmith also reaches customers via WHSmith Direct www.
co. uk serving customers on the internet 24 hours a day.
WH Smith PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange SMWH and is part of the FTSE 250 Index.
More information about the business is available at www.
WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs most popular WH SmiTH PLC: COrPOraTE ObjECTiVES WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs stationer, bookseller and newsagent most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent by continuing to execute its High Street recovery plan by continuing to execute its High and grow its strongly performing Travel business.
Street recovery plan and grow its 1 We aim to improve the Companys profitability and cash flow generation, delivering sustainable returns strongly performing Travel business.
and increasing dividends to shareholders.
We believe that a concentration on these factors will be reflected kaTE SWaNN, grOuP CHiEf ExECuTiVE in a total shareholder return that compares well with our peer group of equivalent listed companies.
We invest where we believe we will achieve a return on investment above our cost of capital.
While external economic and other factors might affect us in the short term, the markets we are focused on are growth sectors, which we believe will deliver sustainable returns.
In July 2004 we announced plans to improve the performance of our High Street business.
The High Street recovery plan concentrates on rebuilding authority in core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
High Street is now three years into the plan and we have made significant progress: in the year to 31 August 2006 1 trading profits grew by 14 per cent to 42m, having grown by 164 per cent the previous year to 37m, from 1 14m in the year to 31 August 2004.
This year profits have grown further, by 5 per cent to 44m.
Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts and trialling new formats.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 The division has been performing strongly, with In the year to 31 August 2007, High Street had revenues 1 1 trading profits growing by approximately 100 per cent of 961m and trading profit of 44m.
In the year to 31 August 2006, Travel 1 had revenues of 319m and trading profit of 31m.
High Street: operational review 2006 07 1 This year profits have grown by 16 per cent to 36m.
The High Street business continues to focus on the implementation of our plan to rebuild our position We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, as Britains most popular stationer, bookseller and including customers, suppliers, business partners, newsagent.
We are pleased to report that we are making employees and the communities in which we operate.
Profits for High Street are up 5 per cent Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is available year on year, delivered through maintaining focus on at www.
rebuilding authority in our core categories, tightly controlling costs, optimising margins and delivering WHSmiTH HigH STrEET the retailing basics.
Nature of business High Street operates 544 stores.
It is present in 85 per Sales for the year were down 6 per cent, but gross cent of the top 500 UK retailing locations and 95 per cent margins improved by around 280 basis points, both of its stores are in prime locations with high customer developments reflecting our strategy to rebalance traffic.
With a presence on nearly every significant high the mix of our business to concentrate on our core street in the UK, the High Street store portfolio has categories of Stationery, Books and News and Impulse, extensive reach across the UK.
At 31 August 2007, High and to reduce our reliance on Entertainment.
Street operated from a total of 3m square feet of selling Cost control remains a core element of our plan.
space, with stores ranging in size from 777 square feet In October 2006, we set a target of cutting costs by to more than 23,000 square feet.
For the full year we delivered savings of 10m, from areas of the business including logistics, information systems and stores.
We have identified further savings of 11m to be made over We aim to improve the Companys the next three years.
Some of these savings came from our ongoing profitability and cash flow programme to increase efficiency in key business generation, delivering sustainable functions, notably in information systems, through further outsourcing and renegotiation of contracts, returns and increasing dividends and in distribution, through better efficiency and reduced returns.
In stores, we have made further progress with to shareholders.
our staff flexibility programme, allowing us to flex labour with sales.
Our goods not-for-resale purchasing also improved.
The review and renegotiation of contracts enabled us to achieve savings in facilities management High Street sells a wide range of products, which are and cleaning.
More efficient use of certain commodities, divided into four categories: News and Impulse such as carrier bags and energy, helped reduce costs, including newspapers, magazines, confectionery and while also helping to meet our environmental objectives.
other impulse products, Stationery including greetings cards, Books and Entertainment including music, video Margins rose significantly, largely due to the strategy and multimedia games.
High Streets trading is mentioned above: to change the mix of products we relatively seasonal with peaks at Christmas, Easter sell by reducing the amount of space dedicated to lowand in September for the Back to School range.
margin products such as Entertainment, and rebalancing the mix of the business to focus on higher margin The online retail business is operated by High Street categories such as Books and Stationery.
We expect and sells a range of Books, Magazines, Stationery, Gifts further mix changes to be a key driver of overall profit and Entertainment products through its website at growth in the years to come, without relying on top-line www.
The online business has access sales growth in the short or medium term.
to two million book titles and is the UKs second largest online book retailer with an average of approximately The remaining improvement in gross margin came 150,000 visits to the site per week.
from better management of promotions, markdowns and buying, and improved sourcing.
Our Christmas promotional strategy sought to improve 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, gross margins while remaining price competitive.
In exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share based payment and pension service charges.
Books, for example, we controlled margin well in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 5 Summary buSiNESS rEViEW fOCuSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH run up to Christmas, balancing some very competitive offers such as half price on all top 20 hardbacks with less aggressive activity elsewhere.
We achieved excellent market shares in favourite Christmas titles such as Peter Kays The Sound of Laughter, demonstrating the success of our initiatives and their relevance to customers.
We lowered our cost of goods sold by improving buying terms and improving sourcing.
We also maintained our rigorous focus on product shrinkage and markdown management.
We continued with our strategy to rebuild our authority as a popular book specialist and to compete more effectively with other high street specialists.
We made further progress in building our market share versus the general high street, continuing a track record of improving market share performance over the last two years.
We are particularly pleased to have maintained this performance in the second half of the year in the face of what were, as expected, very competitive offers on Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Despite the activity of our competitors, we achieved strong, profitable sales on Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
For the full year we delivered Work to improve ranges continues to deliver encouraging results across our core categories.
For example, we savings of 10m, from areas of successfully trialled key author bays for Kids Books, helping to promote authors such as Jacqueline Wilson.
the business including logistics, The new displays were well received and are being rolled out to all stores.
In Stationery, we are using a information systems and stores.
programme of category reviews to improve our ranges.
Reviews carried out during the year in categories such as pens and PC consumables are delivering improved performance.
This year also saw the completion of a new category management system for magazines which has allowed us to introduce magazine ranges tailored to the profile of the customers in a specific area, for example, allowing us to offer a greater range of yachting titles in an area like Southampton or more business titles in the City of London.
In Books, investment in IT systems enabled us to manage the returns process more efficiently, both for our standard range of titles and for promotional stock.
Our excellence programmes in Books and Stationery ensure the right promotions are in place and key products and titles are available.
On-shelf availability checks for Stationery are now carried out for the top 600 lines.
Together, these initiatives have contributed to good mystery shopper scores.
As part of our work to make better use of the space within our stores and improve our customer offer, we trialled the introduction of Post Offices into six High Street stores: at Altrincham, Ashton-under-Lyne, Hammersmith, Shrewsbury, Slough and Swansea.
The integration was complex but we managed to limit disruption to the stores.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 6 Following the success of these pilots, we announced an remained stable, supported by successful promotions agreement with Post Office Limited to open Post Offices with major newspapers.
In Entertainment, we continued in a further 71 High Street stores.
The agreement secures with our strategy to reduce steadily our reliance on the future of main Post Office services in these towns and this category and as we do this, we are optimising means local people retain access to the full range of more profitability.
Like for like Entertainment sales were than 170 Post Office services from a convenient and easily down 32 per cent in an extremely competitive market accessible location in the heart of their town.
By Autumn 2008 we anticipate most of the 71 Post Office High Street delivered 10m of cost savings during the branches will have relocated to the local WHSmith store, period, 3m ahead of our target.
Cost savings came on average less than 250 metres from the site of the from a number of areas, such as better purchasing original Post Office.
Twenty-three Post Offices are of goods not-for-resale and a continued efficiency already open in WHSmith stores and early customer programme in IT.
The High Street business now operates from 544 stores, occupying 3m square feet 2006: 3m square feet.
We High Street: financial review 2006 07 opened four new stores and closed three.
Growth LFL Sales WHSmiTH TraVEL m 2007 2006 % Growth % Nature of business The Travel business trades under the same brand as Revenue 961 1,021 6% 6% the High Street stores and operates 309 units in airports, Profit from railway stations and motorway service areas across the 1 trading operations 44 42 5% UK.
Travels stores sell a more tailored range of products than High Street stores, to cater for people on the move.
1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central Travels typical customer has less time to browse than costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
the High Street customer and is more interested in reading materials for a journey and quick purchases High Street sales were down 6 per cent and, on a like of food, drink and confectionery.
Consequently, there for like basis, down 6 per cent, reflecting our strategy is a limited demand for entertainment and stationery 1 to rebalance the mix of our business.
Profits increased products, and the stock and format of each Travel store by 5 per cent to 44m 2006: 42m, in line with reflects this.
Markets were as challenging as we Due to their location and convenience nature, Travel anticipated in the first half of the year, but we benefited stores are, on average, significantly smaller than those in the second half from the publication of Harry Potter in the High Street portfolio.
At 31 August 2007, Travel and the Deathly Hallows, the poor Summer weather and operated from a total of 0.2m square feet of selling the absence of a major sporting event such as the 2006 space, with stores ranging in size from 90 square feet World Cup.
We continued to focus on rebuilding authority to more than 6,000 square feet.
Of the 309 Travel units, in our core categories, optimising margins, keeping a 85 are in London and regional airports, 33 are in London tight control of costs and delivering the retail basics.
railway stations including eight Underground stations, Gross margin improved by around 280 basis points, 79 are in provincial railway stations and 87 are in driven by rebalancing the mix of our business, improved motorway service areas.
We also operate one non-UK sourcing, better buying, improved markdown management Travel store, in Paris, and 24 units in locations such as and shrinkage control.
hospitals, bus stations and workplaces.
Like for like sales of Books were up 1 per cent, thanks Travel has a separate operating structure and to the efforts to rebuild our authority as a popular book management team from High Street, reflecting the specialist and maximise profitability.
Gross margin was distinct operational and strategic challenges of the two down including Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows businesses.
Travel stores are in higher footfall locations and up excluding Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
than High Street stores, resulting in higher average Stationery like for like sales fell 3 per cent reflecting rents.
They are less affected by the Christmas trading a stationery market that has been soft throughout the period, although increased passenger traffic during the year.
We continue to focus on improving our ranges Summer holiday season, particularly in airports, in this broad and diverse category through contributes to a Summer peak in sales.
Travel: operational review 2006 07 News and Impulse saw an improvement in gross Travel delivered another strong performance.
Profit margin in the year.
The magazine market was was up 16 per cent and like for like sales increased challenging but our share in News and Magazines Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 7 Summary buSiNESS rEViEW fOCuSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH 2 per cent, achieved as a result of increased sales combined with improved gross margin and tight cost control.
Performance in the second half of the year was impacted by the introduction of the UK smoking ban in public places, by the fact we did not have a hot Summer compared to the very hot weather last year and, in Air, by the ban on onboard liquids.
Gross margin improved over the period as a result of good category mix management and further buying efficiencies.
As in High Street, costs were rigorously controlled.
Continuing its growth path, the Travel business made significant progress, with 20 contract renewals, 18 new units and one unit closure.
We successfully built a strong presence in the motorway service area market and now have 87 units open with leading motorway service operators.
airport stores In our Airport stores we delivered robust sales growth of 5 per cent like for like, however sales slowed in the second half of the year due to the impact of the onboard liquid restrictions and the smoking ban.
Travel remains focused on Following the new security measures on reduced hand baggage implemented last year, we saw a shift in sales increasing average transaction from landside to airside.
We responded swiftly, for example by adjusting staffing between landside and airside units.
value, making improvements to To increase fixture density and capacity airside, we made a number of improvements, such as extra shelves on trading efficiency, securing new confectionery and book gondolas, and more mobile tills.
contracts and trialling new formats.
We expect to see further changes as a result of this airside shift, with landlords adjusting their space balance as well.
Enhancements to our product ranges are enabling us to serve customers better, both landside and airside.
Extensions to our drinks offer, especially water, have been delivered by providing more fridge space, primarily in our airside stores.
We also made good progress on airport contracts.
We renewed eight contracts for units at locations including Glasgow, Luton and Stansted.
We opened 15 new units during the year, including Manchester Terminal 2, Bournemouth and Luton, as well as three specialist Bookstores at Newcastle, Birmingham and Liverpool, and two Stationery stores at Heathrow Terminal 3 and Birmingham.
rail stores Trading in our Rail stores continued to be challenging in 2006 07.
Like for like sales were flat with tough trading conditions in the second half of the year, especially in London, caused by the poor Summer weather compared to the previous very hot Summer weather, the UK smoking ban in public places and the continued impact of free London newspapers, which affected sales of evening newspapers and related items.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 8 We completed the rollout of a new EPOS till system the motorway service area market, both reflecting our 1 across both Rail and Airport stores.
The system provides strategy to grow the Travel business.
Profit increased by faster transaction times and enables us to offer 16 per cent to 36m 2006: 31m, as a result of higher additional services, such as e-top up and e-gift cards, sales combined with improved gross margin and tight enhancing our customer offering.
We made solid progress with contracts, renewing a total Gross margin has increased through effective category of 11 contracts at locations including Colchester, Hull mix management and buying improvements, resulting and Bromley.
We opened two new units in Durham and in more sales in higher margin categories such as Doncaster, and won five new contracts.
These new units, Confectionery and Books.
including three at the newly refurbished St Pancras The Travel business now operates from 309 units, Station and one in the new Eurostar terminal at that including motorway service area franchise units.
station, are due to open in 2008.
At 31 August 2007 Travel operated from a total of 0.2m square feet excluding motorway service areas motorway stores 2006: 0.2m square feet.
Since our announcement in November 2006 of plans to open stores in motorway service areas, we have built OuTLOOk a strong presence in this new channel, bringing our This year saw further profit progress from the Group.
Confectioner, Tobacconist and Newsagent CTN offer We are on track with our plan to deliver value to direct to the motorist.
shareholders, however there remains more to be done.
We completed a challenging rollout plan ahead of In High Street we saw further advances in the delivery schedule and now have 50 Moto and 35 Welcome Break of our plan: margins were up, reflecting our strategy stores, all operated under a franchise agreement.
of rebalancing the mix of our business to focus on our Although it is still early days, we are seeing encouraging core categories, together with successful cost control.
results from the new stores.
In Travel, we achieved a good performance, with strong sales and margin growth delivered through improved As part of the rollout of the WHSmith format, we have ranges and better use of space, as well as new business introduced the key strengths of the Travel offer to development.
None of this could have been achieved broaden customer choice, for example, doubling the size without the dedication and hard work of our staff.
We of key product ranges like Books and Magazines and will continue to implement more changes, in line with adding new ranges like Stationery and Gifting.
our plan, in the year ahead.
We are developing other opportunities in this market, Looking forward to Christmas, we expect that consumer specifically leasehold opportunities, with other motorway spending will remain subdued and that trading will be service area operators.
One of these stores, with Swayfield, extremely competitive, and we have planned accordingly.
has already opened at Cullompton, near Exeter.
We will not chase sales at the expense of profit but will concentrate on profitable activity, while consistently Travel: financial review 2006 07 delivering a solid operational performance and the retail basics.
Growth LFL Sales m 2007 2006 % Growth % kate Swann group Chief Executive, WH Smith PLC Revenue 338 319 6% 2% 11 October 2007 Profit from 1 trading operations 36 31 16% 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
Travel delivered another good performance with sales growth of 2 per cent on a like for like basis.
This was driven by the Airports business, which was up 5 per cent on a like for like basis.
This performance can be attributed to improved ranges, innovative promotions and the successful rebalancing of sales from landside to airside.
Total sales in Travel increased 6 per cent, driven by new business development gains and expansion into Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 9 bOard Of dirECTOrS fOCuSEd ON dELiVEriNg STraTEgiC gOaLS 2. kate Swann is Group Chief Executive and joined the Board of Old WH Smith in November 2003.
She started her career at Tesco plc before moving to positions at Homepride Foods, Coca Cola Schweppes and Dixons Stores Group.
She then worked for Homebase, ultimately as Managing Director, before becoming Managing Director of Argos in December 2000.
She is a non-executive 2 3 director of The British Land Company plc.
3. alan Stewart is Group Finance Director and joined the Board of Old WH Smith in March 2005.
He joined Thomas Cook UK Limited in 1998 as Group Treasurer and was appointed Chief Financial Officer in the same year.
In 2001 he was appointed Chief Executive of Thomas Cook UK Limited and became a member of the Thomas Cook AG 5 Board.
He is a non-executive director of Games Workshop Group PLC and a trustee of the childrens charity KidsOut.
Aged 47.. john barton is a non-executive director and Senior Independent Director and joined the Board of Old WH Smith in November 1999.
He retired as Chairman 6 7 of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc in December 2001, having formerly been the Chief Executive of Jardine Insurance Brokers Group plc.
He is Chairman of Next plc and is Deputy Chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings PLC.
5. mike Ellis is a non-executive director and joined the Robert Walker Chairman, John Barton, Mike Ellis, Board of Old WH Smith in March 2005.
He rejoined the Luke Mayhew, MT Rainey and Kate Swann were appointed Board of HBOS plc in September 2007 and will assume directors of the Company on 26 June 2006 and Alan Stewart the role of Group Finance Director in January 2008, was appointed as a director of the Company on 21 June 2006. a position that he held previously from 2001 to 2004.
They were previously directors of the former listed parent Prior to this, for 14 years, he worked in a number of senior company of the WH Smith Group.
executive positions at Halifax plc and its predecessor, Halifax Building Society and was appointed Chief bOard COmmiTTEES Operating Officer in 1999.
Aged 56. audit Committee Nominations Committee Mike Ellis Chairman Robert Walker Chairman 6.
Luke mayhew is a non-executive director and joined the John Barton John Barton Board of Old WH Smith in July 2005.
He was Managing Luke Mayhew MT Rainey Director of John Lewis from 2000 to 2004, prior to which, Kate Swann from 1992 to 2000, he was Director of Research and remuneration Committee Expansion of the John Lewis Partnership.
He is Chairman John Barton Chairman of Pets at Home Group Limited and Bank Store Holdings Luke Mayhew Limited, and a non-executive director of Brambles MT Rainey Limited.
Robert Walker 7. mT rainey is a non-executive director and joined the.
robert Walker joined the Board of Old WH Smith as Board of Old WH Smith in March 2002.
In 1993 she founded a non-executive director in January 2005 and became Rainey Kelly Campbell Roalfe, now a top five UK advertising Chairman on 1 February 2005.
He is Chairman of BCA agency and part of the WPP group.
She was Joint Chief Holdings Ltd and is also a non-executive director of Signet Executive from 1993 to 2003 and retired from the position Group plc, Tate and Lyle plc and Williams Lea Holdings of Executive Chairman in 2005.
Prior to that she held a plc, where he was Chairman until 2006.
He started his number of senior executive positions in agencies both in career at Procter & Gamble and McKinsey & Co. then the UK and the US.
She is currently Founder and CEO of spent over 20 years with PepsiCo Inc.
co. uk, the new online social network for joined the Board of Severn Trent plc as a non-executive mentoring.
She is also a non-executive director of Viapost director and then served as Group Chief Executive from Limited, as well as being a Trustee of the volunteering August 2000 until retirement in February 2005.
Aged 62. charity Timebank and the think tank Demos.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 0 Summary dirECTOrS rEPOrT The following definitions apply throughout this report This final dividend, together with the interim dividend unless the context requires otherwise: of 3.7p per ordinary share paid on 14 June 2007, makes a total dividend of 11.8p per ordinary share for the year Company means WH Smith PLC, a public limited ended 31 August 2007. company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 5202036.
The Group means the SHarE CaPiTaL Company and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings: Subject to disenfranchisement in the event of A nonOld WH Smith means the company formerly known as payment of any call or other sum due and payable in WH Smith PLC, a public limited company incorporated respect of any share or B non-compliance with any in England and Wales with registered number 471941 statutory notice requiring the disclosure of certain and which was the holding company of the WH Smith information in relation to the ownership of shares, and Group prior to the demerger: subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting from time to time attached to any shares, at general Smiths News means Smiths News PLC, a public limited meetings of the Company on a show of hands every company incorporated in England and Wales with registered member has one vote, and on a poll, every member number 5195191 and which became the holding company has one vote for each share of which he is a holder.
of the WH Smith News business following the demerger: Subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of WH Smith Group means Old WH Smith and its Association, a holder of shares may receive a dividend subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings: in respect of his shares.
The Board may deduct from WH Smith News means the business carried on by Old any dividend or other monies payable on a share all WH Smith prior to the demerger and by Smiths News such sums as may be due from him to the Company on following the demerger of wholesaling and distributing account of calls or otherwise in relation to the shares.
newspapers and magazines to retailers and supplying A liquidator may with the sanction of an extraordinary other services to publishers and retailers: and resolution of the Company and any other sanction required WH Smith Retail business means the business carried by law A divide among members in specie the whole or on by Old WH Smith prior to the demerger and by the any part of the assets of the Company, or B vest the whole Company following the demerger of retailing through or any part of the assets in trustees for the benefit of the High Street and Travel Retail outlets.
members as the liquidator shall think fit, but no member shall be compelled to accept any assets upon which there buSiNESS rEViEW is any liability.
The Board may with the authority of an The Companies Act 1985 requires the Company to set out ordinary resolution A resolve to capitalise any sum in this report a fair review of the business of the Group standing to the credit of any reserve account of the during the financial year ended 31 August 2007 including Company including share premium account and capital an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the redemption reserve or any sum standing to the credit of financial year, and a description of the principal risks and the profit and loss account not required for the payment of uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils any preferential dividend and B appropriate that sum as the Business Review requirements can be found in the capital to the holders of ordinary shares in proportion to the directors report in the Annual Report which is incorporated nominal amount of the ordinary share capital held by them into the summary directors report by reference.
and allot shares or debentures or otherwise deal with such sum as directed by the resolution provided that the share PriNCiPaL aCTiViTy premium account and the capital redemption reserve and The principal activity of the Group is retailing and any sum not available for distribution in accordance with associated activities in the UK.
We are one of the UKs applicable law may only be applied in paying up unissued leading retailers of Books, Stationery, Newspapers, shares to be allotted credited as fully paid up.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason for it, refuse to register any transfer of any COmPaNy rESuLTS certificated share which is not fully paid up but not so as The profit for the financial year, before taxation, was to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place and 76m 2006: 44m and sales fell by 41m to 1,299m, on which the Company has a lien as a result of such share representing a decrease of 3 per cent.
The Board may also refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share unless it diVidENdS is lodged at the registered office, or such other place as The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend the Board may decide, for registration, accompanied by a for the year of 8.1p per ordinary share on 6 February certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other 2008 to members on the Register at the close of evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove title business on 11 January 2008. of the intending transferor.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC Summary dirECTOrS rEPOrT CONTiNuEd Nature On 7 September 2006 the Company completed a Holder Number % of Holding reduction of its capital in order to create distributable reserves: and the nominal value of each ordinary share Standard Life Direct in the Company was reduced from 195p to 20p.
Investments Limited 16,605,213 9.07 Indirect Silchester International On 15 December 2006, the Company redeemed one Investors Limited 10,709,619 5.85 Direct redeemable preference share of 50,000 at par.
Sanderson Asset Management Limited 8,116,800 4.44 Direct PurCHaSE Of OWN SHarES Legal & General At the Annual General Meeting on 1 February 2007, Group PLC 5,859,261 3.20 Direct authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 18,292,155 ordinary shares of 20 pence each.
The Company did not use this authority to make Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any any purchases of its own shares during the financial ordinary shareholders with interests of 3 per cent or year.
This authority is renewable annually and approval more in the issued share capital of the Company.
will be sought from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2008 to renew the authority for a further year.
dirECTOrS The directors are responsible for the management of dEmErgEr the business of the Company and may exercise all the At an Extraordinary General Meeting of Old WH Smith powers of the Company subject to applicable legislation held on 2 August 2006, shareholders approved the and regulation, the Companys Memorandum and demerger of the WH Smith Retail business from the Articles of Association.
The demerger became effective on 31 August 2006 with the Company being admitted to the The names of the directors as at the date of this report, Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading together with biographical details, are set out on page on the London Stock Exchange on 1 September 2006.
All the directors served throughout the period.
As part of the demerger, the Company paid an additional The Companys Articles of Association give a power to contribution of 25m to the WH Smith Pension Trust on the Board to appoint directors and where notice is given 1 September 2006. signed by all the other directors, remove a director from office.
The Companys Articles of Association themselves PENSiONS may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Following extensive consultation, the Company on 2 April The Companys Articles of Association require that at 2007 ceased service accruals for active members of the the first three annual general meetings following the WH Smith Pension Trust, replacing this benefit with a demerger, one third of the directors shall retire from defined contribution pension benefit.
office but shall be eligible for re-appointment.
At each annual general meeting thereafter any director then SigNifiCaNT agrEEmENTS CHaNgE Of CONTrOL in office who has been appointed by the Board since A change of control of the Company following a takeover the previous annual general meeting or has held office bid may cause a number of agreements to which the for three years or more since he was appointed or last Company or its trading subsidiary, WH Smith Retail re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall Limited, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, be eligible for re-appointment.
banking arrangements, property lease and licence agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, Mike Ellis and Kate Swann retire from the Board by rotation the directors service agreements and employee share and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
The plans would be similarly affected on a change of control, Chairman conducted a thorough review with Mike Ellis to including in the case of the directors, compensation for assess his contribution to the Board and confirmed that he loss of office.
In the context of the Company as a whole, continues to be an effective non-executive director.
these agreements are not considered to be significant.
MT Rainey, who has served as a non-executive director Details of the change of control clause contained in the since 2002, will step down from the Board following the service contracts of the executive directors can be found Annual General Meeting to be held on 31 January 2008 in the Remuneration Report on page 17. at which time she will have served two three-year terms on the Board.
COmPaNyS SHarEHOLdErS The interests of the directors and their immediate families The Company has been notified that as at the date of in the share capital of the Company, along with details of this report, the following shareholders own more than directors share options and awards, are contained in the 3 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company: remuneration report set out on pages 19 to 20.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 2 At no time during the year did any of the directors have It is the Companys policy not to make political donations a material interest in any significant contract with the and no political donations or EU political expenditure Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability PaymENT POLiCy fOr SuPPLiErS insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, action brought against its directors.
The Company has which complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, also provided an indemnity for its directors and the is to agree the terms of payment in advance in line with Company Secretary, which is a qualifying third party normal trade practice and, provided a supplier performs indemnity provision for the purposes of section 309B in accordance with the agreement, to abide by such of the Companies Act 1985. terms.
The Companys trade creditors figure as at the balance sheet date was equivalent to 45 days 2006: STaTEmENT aS TO diSCLOSurE Of iNfOrmaTiON 40 days based on average daily amounts invoiced by TO audiTOrS suppliers during the year.
Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information gOiNg CONCErN as defined by section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 The directors consider that the Company has adequate of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable of the directors has taken all steps he should have taken future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit concern basis in preparing the accounts.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
audiTOrS A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as EmPLOyEES auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors The Group employs approximately 16,000 people throughout to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the the United Kingdom and it is proud of its long history of being Annual General Meeting.
regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and aNNuaL gENEraL mEETiNg objectives of the Group through personal briefings and email The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held and the Companys open management style encourages at the CBI Conference Centre, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford employees to contribute to the development of the business.
Street, London WC1A 1DU on 31 January 2008 at 11.30am.
The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies Sharesave Scheme which provides employees with the this report.
opportunity to acquire shares in the Company.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 October 2007.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
By Order of the Board The Company gives proper consideration to applications for Ian Houghton employment when these are received from disabled people Company Secretary and employs disabled people whenever suitable vacancies 11 October 2007 arise.
Should an employee become disabled when working for the Company, efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining is provided if necessary.
CHariTabLE aNd POLiTiCaL dONaTiONS The Companys support for charitable causes is mainly channelled through the work of the Companys Charitable Trust.
Charitable donations during the year ended 31 August 2007 totalled 76,528 2006: 68,500.
In addition, the Company facilitated the sale of charitable products which gave rise to further donations of 274,807 2006: 334,529 and also made donations in kind with an estimated value of 126,455 2006: 105,000.
Employees are encouraged to give their time and skills for the benefit of a variety of charitable causes.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 3 SUmmary remUneration rePort The Remuneration Committee has adopted the principles remuneration policy of good governance relating to directors remuneration as The Companys remuneration policy aims to encourage set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance a performance-based culture, attract and retain high published in 2003.
This report complies with the calibre executive directors and align executive directors Companies Act 1985, as amended by the Directors and shareholders interests.
In forming this policy the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Committee has adopted the principles set out in Section Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Part A of the B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
report, which is not subject to audit, sets out the Companys remuneration policy.
Part B, which has been The aims of the policy are achieved by providing a audited, provides details of the remuneration, pensions remuneration package, comprising salary and benefits, and share incentives of the directors for the year ended positioned at the median of a comparator group 31 August 2007.
The report has been prepared on behalf of 20 peer companies in retail and related sectors, of the Board by the Remuneration Committee.
pension provision and performance-related benefits.
Any payments made to executive directors other than salary are not pensionable.
The performance-related Part a UnaUdited information benefits, which consist of an annual performance bonus remuneration Committee and long-term incentives, account for a significant The Remuneration Committee met five times during the proportion of total remuneration.
It is chaired by John Barton and its other members are Luke Mayhew, MT Rainey and Robert Walker.
The table below shows the expected relative value of the executive directors future annual remuneration package.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website and from the Company Fixed Performance-related Secretary on request, set out the responsibilities of the Name element elements Committee which include determining and agreeing with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Base Annual Long-term salary bonus incentives Chairman, executive directors and certain other senior executives: in determining such policy to take into Kate Swann 22% 33% 45% account all factors which it deems necessary, the Alan Stewart 25% 32% 43% objective of such policy being to ensure that executive management are provided with appropriate incentives a Kate Swann can earn up to 150 per cent of salary for to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair maximum performance and Alan Stewart can earn and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual up to 130 per cent of salary for maximum performance contributions to the success of the Company: approving under the Annual Bonus Plan.
the design of, and targets for, any performance-related b The value placed on long-term incentives assumes pay schemes operated by the Company and approving maximum performance and comprises the value of the total annual payments made under such schemes: shares awarded under the WH Smith LTIP.
reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for c The above table does not include the value of other approval by the Board and shareholders: ensuring that benefits and employer pension contributions.
contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Company, and During the year under review the Committee undertook ensuring that failure is not rewarded and that the duty a review of senior executive long-term incentive to mitigate loss is fully recognised: and in consultation arrangements following concerns which had been with the Chairman and or Chief Executive as appropriate, raised by some of the Companys major shareholders determining the total individual remuneration package regarding retention of the current management team of each executive director and other senior executives following the vesting of awards under the current including bonuses and share incentives.
The Committee concluded that it should put in place new arrangements which During the year the Committee received external advice would help in the continued motivation and retention and services from its external independent adviser, of the current management team going forward.
During the year the Committee reaching this conclusion, it took into consideration also received advice from an independent law firm, the need to provide senior executives with long-term Allen & Overy LLP who were appointed by the Company, incentive opportunities which would enable them to in respect of share schemes.
Mercer also provided the demonstrate their continued commitment to, and belief Company with actuarial advice in respect of the Companys in, the ongoing plans for the Company by investing in pension schemes and Allen & Overy LLP also provided ordinary shares.
the Company with other legal services.
Tanith Dodge, Group Human Resources Director, and Ian Houghton, To meet these goals the Committee believes that it is Company Secretary, also materially assisted the necessary to introduce a new Management Investment Committee in carrying out its duties, except in relation Plan and an ordinary resolution seeking shareholders to their own remuneration.
authority to do this will be proposed at the Annual WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 14 General Meeting.
Further details are set out in the in the form of nil cost options or, in order to retain Notice of Annual General Meeting.
flexibility and at the Companys discretion, a cash sum linked to the value of a notional award of shares up to a value of 200 per cent of base salary.
Following SaLary and benefitS extensive consultation with shareholders regarding The salaries of executive directors are reviewed the Management Investment Plan performance targets, annually in September.
When conducting this review, the Committee adopted a combination of financial and the Committee takes into account a range of factors market based measures to reward long-term sustained including the Companys performance, market performance.
It believes that such a combination of conditions, the prevailing market rates for similar targets is best suited to the needs of the Company and positions in a comparable group of companies, the its shareholders.
responsibilities, individual performance and experience of each executive director and the level of salary The performance conditions for awards granted in the increases awarded to employees throughout the financial year ended 31 August 2007 were as follows: Company.
Following the review in September 2007 the executive directors received basic pay increases a the performance condition applying to one-half of the of 2 per cent.
Executive directors also receive taxable award shares is based on real growth in the adjusted benefits including the provision of a company car and earnings per share of the Company over the three private medical insurance.
The comparator group of years ending 31 August 2009 the Performance companies used in conducting this review was as follows: Period and vesting will occur on the following basis: Carpetright Carphone Warehouse Annual rate of growth in Adjusted Earnings per Share of the Company compounded Clinton Cards annually in excess of growth in RPI over DSG International the Performance Period Proportion exercisable Game Group Below 3% Zero Games Workshop Group 3% 30% Halfords 9% or more 100% HMV Between the Pro rata Home Retail Group above points between 30% and 100% Mothercare My Travel Group NEXT For these purposes EPS will be determined by Rank Group reference to fully diluted EPS before exceptional items, Signet Group adjusted as considered appropriate by the Committee Woolworths Group to ensure consistency.
The fees paid to non-executive directors are determined b the performance condition applying to the remaining by the Chairman and the executive members of the Board half of such an award is based on the Companys Total and take into account the required time commitment and Shareholder Return TSR performance against the the fee payments for non-executive directors of similar FTSE All Share General Retailers sector over the organisations.
Non-executive directors do not participate Performance Period and vesting will occur on the in any bonus or share schemes.
following basis: annual bonus plan TSR performance ranking at end For the year under review, Kate Swann had the opportunity of Performance Period Proportion exercisable to receive an annual bonus up to a maximum of Below median Zero 150 per cent of base salary and Alan Stewart had the Median 30% opportunity to receive an annual bonus up to a maximum Upper quartile 100% of 130 per cent of base salary.
The plan is designed so that Between the Pro rata the level of bonus paid is dependent on the achievement above points between 30% and 100% of a profit before tax and after interest target and personal performance.
No bonus is paid unless the minimum profit WH Smith share option schemes target is achieved.
The Company operates two types of share option scheme both of which were approved by shareholders of Old Long-term inCentiveS WH Smith in August 2006: WH Smith LtiP Under this plan, approved by shareholders of Old a an Executive Share Option Scheme which is used WH Smith in August 2006, executive directors and key to grant options to executives up to an annual limit senior executives may be awarded each year conditional of 200 per cent of base salary.
The performance entitlements to either ordinary shares in the Company target for options granted in the financial year ended Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 15 SUmmary remUneration rePort ContinUed 31 August 2007 is measured over a fixed three-year and market based measures aimed at delivering period and the proportion that will become exercisable enhanced returns to shareholders.
It believes that increases on a straight-line basis from 40 per cent for such a combination of targets is best suited to the adjusted EPS growth of RPI plus 9 per cent to 100 per needs of the Company and its shareholders.
cent for adjusted EPS growth of RPI plus 15 per cent.
The Committee believes that EPS growth provides The original EPS performance condition required that focus on increasing the Companys share price over the EPS of Old WH Smith grow by RPI plus 20 per cent the medium to long-term and is the most appropriate per annum over the performance period for vesting at measure of the Companys underlying financial threshold performance and RPI plus 30 per cent per performance.
The executive directors did not participate annum for vesting at maximum performance.
The EPS in this scheme in the financial year ended 31 August of Old WH Smith for the purposes of the plan performance 2007: and condition in the base year was 18.5p.
This performance b a HM Revenue & Customs Approved Save-As-Youcondition has been amended so that it relates to the Earn share option scheme the Sharesave Scheme.
performance of the Company and that, based on an The Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK employees assumed level of RPI for the performance period of who have completed one years service and who enter 3 per cent per annum, the threshold EPS for the Company an approved savings contract for a term of three or five will be 23p and the maximum EPS will be 29p for the years.
The maximum amount which can be saved is year ended 31 August 2007.
The inflation rate during 250 per month, the total savings at the end of the the performance period was 3.4 per cent which meant term being used to purchase shares at a price which that the threshold EPS for the Company was 23.3p and is not less than 80 per cent of their market value at the maximum EPS was 29.3p.
the start of the savings contract.
In common with most schemes of this type, there are no performance The original TSR performance condition measures the conditions applicable to options granted under the TSR of Old WH Smith against the TSR on a notional Sharesave Scheme.
investment in the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index over the TSR performance period.
The TSR performance condition has been amended so that at the end of the old WH Smith Share Plans performance period the market capitalisation of the Following the demerger of WHSmith Retail, participants Company and Smiths News plus reinvested dividends in the Old WH Smith Share Plans received replacement paid over the whole of the performance period whether options and awards over the Companys shares for their paid by Old WH Smith, Smiths News or the Company are existing options and awards which had the same intrinsic added together to determine the percentage of Matching value at the time of exchange on 13 October 2006.
In this way, the value of the TSR of Old related performance conditions have been adjusted to WH Smith over the period up to the demerger will be be equivalent to the performance conditions that existed added to that of the combined Smiths News and the prior to the demerger.
Company for the remainder of the performance period.
WH Smith 2004 management investment Plan Matching Awards will normally vest on 31 January 2008.
Participants in this plan who held Old WH Smith shares To the extent that an award vests, 75 per cent will be that they were required to hold to participate in the capable of release immediately following the vesting Management Investment Plan Investment Shares date 31 January 2008 and 25 per cent will be capable received both Company and Smiths News shares as a of release one year later.
Awards not released will lapse result of the demerger.
Executive directors were required on 1 February 2010. to continue to hold both the Company and Smiths News shares whilst other participants were either required to WH Smith 2004 L-tiP continue to hold both the Company and Smiths News The performance condition for awards granted in the shares or sell the shares of Smiths News and purchase financial year ended 31 August 2005 was based on the with the proceeds of that sale net of taxes and dealing relative TSR of Old WH Smith over a fixed three-year costs shares in the Company by 30 November 2006. period compared against the FTSE All Share General If a participant does not continue to hold the relevant Retailers sector, increasing on a straight-line basis from Investment Shares for the duration of the performance 40 per cent for median performance to full vesting if Old period, a Matching Award will only be capable of vesting WH Smith was in the top decile.
This condition has been on a pro rata basis, and will lapse if the minimum amended so that at the end of the performance period investment amount is not retained during the performance the market capitalisation of the Company and Smiths period.
Following the demerger, Matching Awards were News plus reinvested dividends paid over the whole of adjusted so that for each Old WH Smith share previously the performance period whether paid by Old WH Smith, subject to a Matching Award, there would be one share Smiths News or the Company are added together to in the Company and one share in Smiths News subject determine the percentage of awards that vest.
to the adjusted Matching Award.
Following extensive consultation with shareholders Following extensive consultation with shareholders, regarding the Management Investment Plan performance the Committee adopted a combination of financial WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 16 targets, the Committee adopted a combination of financial in breach of the notice period.
In other circumstances, and market based measures to reward long-term the Committee believes that any question of compensation sustained performance.
It believes that such a combination should be decided upon at the appropriate time rather of targets is best suited to the needs of the Company and than in advance so that the principle of mitigation is its shareholders.
The performance conditions for awards applied in the particular circumstances.
granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2006 are the same as those performance conditions for awards The Chairman, who has a letter of appointment, is appointed granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2007 for an initial term of three years, which may be terminated described on page 15. at any time by either the Company or the Chairman.
The non-executive directors, who have letters of WH Smith executive Share option Scheme 1999 appointment, are appointed for an initial term of In respect of all options granted up to and including three years, subject to review thereafter.
November 2003, the Remuneration Committee of Old WH Smith determined that the related performance conditions were satisfied following the announcement Performance graph of the Companys results on 12 October 2006.
The Cumulative TSR Growth since 31 August 2002 amended performance condition for options granted WH Smith 120 after November 2003 is the same as the performance FTSE General Retailers condition for options granted in the financial year ended 100 31 August 2007 described on page 16.
The Committee 80 believes that EPS growth provides focus on increasing the Companys share price over the medium to long- 60 term and is the most appropriate measure of the Companys underlying financial performance.
40 20 WH Smith group executive option Scheme All outstanding options under the WH Smith Group 0 Executive Option Scheme became exercisable from 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 25 August 2006 to 24 February 2007 as a result of Accounting year end the demerger.
a The graph illustrates the TSR performance on a WH Smith Sharesave Scheme 1999 cumulative basis with dividends reinvested as at the All outstanding options under the WH Smith Sharesave end of each of the last five financial years compared Scheme 1999 became exercisable from 25 August 2006 with the FTSE All Share General Retailers sector index to 24 February 2007 as a result of the demerger.
b Old WH Smith was a member of the FTSE All Share Personal shareholdings General Retailers sector index and, as such, this sector was Executive directors and senior executives are encouraged to considered to be the most appropriate comparator group build up and hold a significant shareholding in the Company.
upon which a broad equity market index is calculated.
Contracts of service WH Smith employees Share trust 1999 and The contract dates and notice periods for each executive the WH Smith employee benefit trust director are as follows: As part of the demerger the WH Smith Employees Share Trust 1999 Old WH Smith Trust was split in proportion to the Trusts obligations to the Company and Smiths Notice Notice News as at the date of the demerger.
Date of period by period by contract Company director The WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust is used to Kate Swann 2 July 2003 1 year 9 months facilitate the acquisition of ordinary shares in the Alan Stewart 3 March 2005 1 year 9 months Company for the purpose of satisfying awards and options granted under the Companys share schemes It is the Companys policy to enter into contracts of including the Old WH Smith Share Plans.
The Trust employment with executive directors which may be is a discretionary trust, the sole beneficiaries being terminated at any time by the Company upon 12 months employees including executive directors and former notice and upon nine months notice by the executive employees of the Company.
The Trustee is Lloyds TSB director.
Under the Companys policy, in the event of Offshore Trust Company Limited, an independent a change of control of the Company there is a provision professional trustee company based in Jersey.
in each executive directors contract which provides for a payment of liquidated damages of 95 per cent of salary and benefits if the contract is terminated Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 17 SUmmary remUneration rePort ContinUed Following the demerger and further purchases of 2,860,000 shares, the number of WH Smith shares held in the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust and the Old WH Smith Trust at 31 August 2007 was 9,132,267.
Pensions For the year under review, the Company operated two types of pension scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme, WHSmith Pension Trust and a defined contribution pension scheme, WH Smith Retirement Savings Plan.
Following extensive consultation, the Company on 2 April 2007 ceased future service accruals for active members of the WHSmith Pension Trust.
No executive directors are members of the WHSmith Pension Trust.
The executive directors participate in WH Smith Retirement Savings Plan.
Under this scheme an executive director may contribute up to an amount equivalent to 5 per cent of salary which is then matched by the Company.
In addition, a pension supplement is also payable which may be taken as an additional pension contribution or as an addition to basic pay.
For the financial year to 31 August 2007 the total contribution for Kate Swann was equivalent to 35 per cent of salary and for Alan Stewart was 30 per cent of salary.
external appointments The Company believes there are significant benefits to the individual and the Company from executive directors accepting non-executive directorships in other organisations.
Each executive director may accept up to two non-executive directorships provided they are not both appointments to companies in the FTSE 100 or are chairmanships of a FTSE 100 company.
Non-executive directorships must not conflict with the interests of the Company.
The executive directors may retain fees from one of their external directorships.
The fees received and retained by the executive directors in respect of their non-executive directorships are shown in the table below: Received Retained Directorship 000s 000s Kate Swann The British Land Company plc 54 54 Alan Stewart Games Workshop Group PLC 30 30 Part b aUdited information directors remuneration The remuneration of the directors for the financial year ended 31 August 2007 was as follows: Annual Benefits, performance pension supplement Year to Salary fees bonus and other payments Total 31 August 2006 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Robert Walker 200 200 200 Kate Swann 504 756 168 1,428 1,292 Alan Stewart 312 400 92 804 748 John Barton 49 49 49 Mike Ellis 42 42 42 Luke Mayhew 38 38 38 MT Rainey 38 38 38 Total 000s 1,183 1,156 260 2,599 2,407 Benefits and other payments relate mainly to the provision of a company car, private medical insurance and any salary supplement paid in respect of pension entitlement.
directors pensions Defined contribution scheme The following executive directors were members of a defined contribution scheme during the year ended 31 August 2007: Employee contribution Employer contribution % of salary 000s % of salary 000s Kate Swann 5 25 38 190 Alan Stewart 5 15 5 15 WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 18 a Executive directors receive a pension supplement which may be taken as an additional pension contribution or as an addition to basic pay, this payment if taken as an addition to basic pay is included in the table of Directors remuneration under the heading Benefits, pension supplement and other payments.
b The Company contribution for Kate Swann included a payment of 165,000 in respect of the bonus sacrifice that she made in November 2006.
This sum was included in the bonus payment that Kate Swann received for the year ended 31 August 2006 and was included in the table of Directors remuneration under the heading Annual performance bonus.
c The dependants of executive directors are eligible for payment of a lump sum in the event of death-in-service equivalent to four times salary.
Long-term incentives Share award schemes Details of the conditional awards to acquire ordinary shares of the Company and, in respect of the MIP, ordinary shares of Smiths News granted to executive directors are as follows: Number of Number of Number of shares shares Number of shares subject subject to shares subject to to awards awards subject to Share price awards at granted which vested awards at at date Earliest Date of 31 August during during 31 August of award date of grant 2006 the year the year 2007 pence vesting Kate Swann Conditional Award 04.11.03 71,207 71,207 352.25 12.10.06 WH Smith 2004 Management Investment Plan 03.11.04 717,778 717,778 343.00 31.01.08 WH Smith 2004 L-TIP 02.11.05 184,675 184,675 267.00 October 2008 09.02.06 124,911 124,911 296.00 February 2009 WH Smith LTIP 19.10.06 296,450 296,450 350.00 October 2009 Total 1,098,571 296,450 71,207 1,323,814 Alan Stewart WH Smith 2004 Management Investment Plan 26.04.05 412,179 412,179 359.00 31.01.08 WH Smith 2004 L-TIP 02.11.05 114,347 114,347 267.00 October 2008 09.02.06 77,342 77,342 296.00 February 2009 WH Smith LTIP 19.10.06 160,612 160,612 350.00 October 2009 Total 603,868 160,612 764,480 See Note b below a In respect of the Matching Awards granted under the WH Smith 2004 Management Investment Plan and Kate Swanns conditional award the number in the table shows both the number of ordinary shares in the Company and the number of ordinary shares in Smiths News subject to such awards.
The share price for such awards is the middle market quotation for Old WH Smiths shares as at the date of award.
b As a result of the demerger, WH Smith 2004 L-TIP awards granted on 02.11.05 and 09.02.06 were exchanged for equivalent new awards over ordinary shares in the Company.
The intrinsic value of the shares under the exchanged awards remained the same and as such, the share price of these awards at the date of grant has been adjusted accordingly.
c The number of shares subject to awards is the maximum 100 per cent number of shares that could be received by the executive if the performance targets are fully met.
d The awards granted under the WH Smith 2004 Management Investment Plan will only vest to the extent that the performance targets set out on page 16 are satisfied.
To the extent that an award vests, 75 per cent will be capable of release immediately following the vesting date 31 January 2008 and 25 per cent will be capable of release one year later.
Awards not released will lapse on 1 February 2010. e The awards granted under the WH Smith 2004 L-TIP will only vest to the extent that the performance targets as set out on page 16 are satisfied.
f The awards granted under the WH Smith LTIP will only vest to the extent that the performance targets as set out on page 15 are satisfied.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 19 SUmmary remUneration rePort ContinUed g In respect of the conditional share award held by Kate Swann which vested on 13 October 2006, the value of the 71,207 Company shares on the date of release was 255,989 359.5p per ordinary share and the value of the 71,207 Smiths News shares on the date of release was 89,720 126p per ordinary share.
h No conditional share awards lapsed during the year.
Share option schemes Details of the options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company granted to executive directors are as follows: Shares Shares subject to Shares subject to options Shares subject to options which were subject to options at granted exercised options at Date of 31 August during during 31 August Option price grant 2006 the year the year 2007 pence Exercise period Kate Swann WH Smith Executive Share Option Scheme 1999 20.11.03 557,716 557,716 250.00 20.11.06 19.11.13 SAYE 29.11.06 3,201 3,201 295.20 01.02.10 31.07.10 Total 557,716 3,201 557,716 3,201 Alan Stewart SAYE 29.11.06 3,201 3,201 295.20 01.02.10 31.07.10 Total 3,201 3,201 a The middle market price of an ordinary share at the close of business on 31 August 2007 was 409.5p 31 August 2006: 475p.
b The high and low middle market prices of an ordinary share during the year were 460.75p and 333.25p respectively.
c Executive share options can only be exercised if the performance target is satisfied.
d Kate Swann was granted an unapproved executive share option over 557,716 shares on 20 November 2003.
The Remuneration Committee of Old WH Smith deemed that the performance condition for options granted on or before 20 November 2003 was met for the three-year period ended 31 August 2006.
The option was exercised on 24 November 2006.
The market price of ordinary shares in the Company on 24 November 2006 was 363.47p and the gain, which was subject to tax, was 669,373. e Total gains made by executive directors on the exercise of share options under the Companys share option schemes was 669,373. f Alan Stewart has not been granted any options under the Companys executive share option schemes.
g No options lapsed during the year.
h No options have been granted to or exercised by directors between 1 September 2007 and 11 October 2007. directors interests in shares The beneficial interests of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: 31 August 31 August 2007 2006 John Barton 16,000 16,000 Mike Ellis 5,000 5,000 Luke Mayhew 8,000 8,000 MT Rainey Alan Stewart 82,194 82,194 Kate Swann 191,391 149,438 Robert Walker 25,500 13,476 There has been no change in the directors interests shown above between 1 September 2007 and 11 October 2007.
By Order of the Board John Barton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 October 2007 WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 20 SUmmary finanCiaL revieW SUmmary groUP inCome Statement for tHe year ended 31 aUgUSt 2007 2007 2006 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional m items items Total items items Total Continuing operations Revenue 1,299 - 1,299 1,340 - 1,340 Operating profit 67 10 77 60 7 53 Investment income 5 - 5 2 - 2 Finance costs 6 - 6 11 - 11 Profit before tax 66 10 76 51 7 44 Income tax expense 13 3 16 10 2 12 Profit for the year 53 7 60 41 9 32 1 Earnings per share Basic 34.3p 18.6p Diluted 33.1p 18.2p Non GAAP measures 2 Underlying earnings per share Basic 30.3p 23.8p Diluted 29.3p 23.3p 3 Equity dividends per share 11.8p 9.3p Fixed charges cover 1.4x 1.3x 1 Earnings per share is calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share 2 Underlying earnings per share excludes exceptional items 3 Dividend per share is the final proposed dividend of 8.1p 2006: 6.2p and the interim dividend of 3.7p 2006: proforma 3.1p.
The prior year figure is based on two thirds one third split of year end and interim dividend per WH Smith PLC Circular dated 7 July 2006 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 21 SUmmary finanCiaL revieW ContinUed SUmmary groUP inCome Statement for tHe year ended 31 aUgUSt 2007 ContinUed revenue Group revenue decreased from 1,340m to 1,299m over the year, as we focused on profitable sales, in a tough trading environment.
The like for like LFL sales decline over the period was 4 per cent.
m 2007 2006 High Street 961 1,021 Travel 338 319 Group revenue 1,299 1,340 High Street sales were down 6 per cent and on a LFL basis down 6 per cent, reflecting our strategy to rebalance the mix of our business.
Travel sales growth of 6 per cent 2 per cent on a LFL basis has been driven by the airports business, up 5 per cent on a LFL basis delivered through improved ranges, successful promotions and successfully rebalancing sales from landside to airside.
Profit for the year The Group generated a profit before tax and exceptional items of 66m 2006: 51m, an increase of 29 per cent year on year.
Operating profit before exceptional items increased by 12 per cent from 60m to 67m as a result of strong improvements in trading operations.
m 2007 2006 High Street 44 42 Travel 36 31 Trading profit 80 73 Unallocated costs 13 13 Group operating profit before exceptional items 67 60 Exceptional items 10 7 Group operating profit 77 53 Investment income 5 2 Finance costs 6 11 Income tax expense 16 12 Profit for the year 60 32 High Street High Street delivered a profit increase of 5 per cent to 44m 2006: 42m, in line with expectations, as we continued with our strategy to rebalance the mix of the business.
Markets were as challenging as we expected in the first half, but we benefited in the second half from the publication of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, the poor Summer weather and the absence of a major sporting event following the 2006 World Cup.
Gross margin improved, driven by rebalancing the mix of our business, sourcing benefits, better buying and improved markdown management.
High Street delivered 10m of cost savings during the period, 3m ahead of plan.
Cost savings were delivered from a number of areas of the business, for example, further efficiencies in IT through outsourcing and renegotiated contracts, and better use of not-for-resale purchasing resulting in savings on cleaning, energy and facilities management.
The High Street business now operates from 544 stores, which occupy 3.0m square feet 2006: 3.0m square feet.
We opened 4 new stores during the period with 3 stores closing during the period.
We announced plans to open 71 Post Office concessions in our High Street stores.
The rollout is on schedule with 23 opened to date, a further 10 to open in 2007 and the remainder in 2008.
Customer feedback has been good with improved environment and service levels highlighted.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 22 Travel Travel delivered another good performance with profit increasing by 16 per cent to 36m 2006: 31m.
This was achieved as a result of increased sales combined with improved gross margin and tight cost control.
Gross margin has increased during the year through good category mix management and further buying improvements, resulting in more sales in higher margin categories such as confectionery and books.
We have improved average transaction value by focusing on mix changes and improved promotional activity.
The Travel business now operates from 309 units, including motorway service area franchise units.
Excluding motorway service area franchise units, Travel occupies 0.2m square feet 2006: 0.2m square feet.
We have made good progress on new business development.
We successfully renewed 20 contracts in airports and in rail.
We also opened 18 new units: 15 in airports, 2 in rail and one in Royal Cornwall Hospital.
One unit closed in the year.
Since our announcement in November 2006 of plans to open stores in motorway service areas, we have made good progress to establish a strong presence in this new channel.
We have completed a challenging rollout plan ahead of schedule and now have 50 Moto and 35 Welcome Break stores open.
The stores are trading well and initial customer feedback is encouraging.
We are working on other opportunities in this market, specifically leasehold opportunities, with other motorway service area operators.
One of these stores, with Swayfield has already opened at Cullompton.
Central costs and internal rents Central support costs were 14m, consistent with the prior year.
Internal rents on freehold property owned by the Group remained at the prior year level of 1m.
Net finance charges The results include finance costs net of investment income of 1m 2006: 9m.
Higher investment income and lower finance charges as a result of the Group no longer having a term loan facility have led to the decrease in net finance charges.
In addition, we received a one-off interest receipt of approximately 1.5m associated with a tax refund in the first half of the year.
Exceptional items In the prior year a 12m exceptional charge was incurred in relation to costs associated with the demerger of Smiths News PLC and a 5m exceptional gain was also recognised as a result of the settlement of post retirement medical benefit liabilities.
In the current year the Group has recognised a 10m non cash curtailment gain, as a result of the closure of the WHSmith Pension Trust to defined benefit service accrual, on 2 April 2007.
Taxation The tax charge for the year, before tax on exceptional items, was 13m 2006: 10m.
The effective tax rate on continuing activities excluding exceptional items was 20 per cent 2006: 20 per cent.
We expect the effective tax rate to remain below the UK standard rate over the medium term.
The exact tax rate achieved will depend on the underlying profitability of the Group and continued progress in closing off outstanding tax assessments.
earnings per share The Groups underlying diluted earnings per share was 29.3p 2006: 23.3p as a result of improved profitability.
The Group generated basic diluted earnings per share of 33.1p 2006: 18.2p reflecting a net exceptional charge of 7m in the prior year and the non cash exceptional gain of 10m recognised in the current year.
dividends The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.1p per ordinary share, an increase of 31 per cent on the prior year.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 11.8p per ordinary share, up 27%.
Subject to shareholder approval the dividend will be paid on 6 February 2008 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 11 January 2008.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy and expects that over time dividends would be broadly covered twice by earnings calculated on a normalised tax basis.
fixed charges cover Fixed charges, comprising property operating lease rentals and net finance charges, were covered 1.4 times 2006: 1.3 times by fixed charges and profit before tax and exceptional items.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 23 SUmmary finanCiaL revieW ContinUed SUmmary groUP baLanCe SHeet aS at 31 aUgUSt 2007 m 2007 2006 Non-current assets Goodwill 15 15 Other intangible assets 20 20 Property, plant and equipment 176 184 Deferred tax assets 15 29 Trade and other receivables 5 - 231 248 Current assets Inventories 141 143 Trade and other receivables 59 69 Available for sale investments 4 - Cash and cash equivalents 82 66 286 278 Total assets 517 526 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 217 214 Current tax liabilities 25 20 Obligations under finance leases 3 3 Bank overdrafts and other borrowings 9 13 Short-term provisions 6 4 Derivative financial liabilities 1 1 261 255 Non-current liabilities Retirement benefit obligation 66 Deferred tax liabilities 12 13 Long-term provisions 4 8 Obligations under finance leases 6 8 Other non-current liabilities 7 8 29 103 Total liabilities 290 358 Total net assets 227 168 Total equity 227 168 The Groups net assets have increased from 168m at the end of 2006 to 227m this year.
Return on capital employed increased to 41 per cent compared to 35 per cent in 2006.
Capital expenditure The Group has continued to invest in maintaining our retail properties with refurbishments being undertaken at units such as Hammersmith, Victoria Station and Gatwick North Terminal.
During the year we have opened more units than in the prior year, including units at Durham Station, Heathrow Terminal 3, and High Street stores at Nantwich and Newmarket.
We have also completed our investment in new units at Heathrow Terminal 5 with trading commencing in Spring 2008.
Capital expenditure in relation to IT systems in 2007 included the significant roll out of new EPOS equipment to all our units in Travel and the merging of the High Street and Travel operations financial systems.
retirement benefit obligation The Group has made significant progress since 2003 in substantially reducing the Groups gross IAS 19 pension deficit from 152m at 31 August 2003 to nil at 31 August 2007.
The LDI structure we put in place two years ago is performing well.
During the year, the Group has made significant contributions to the WHSmith Pension Trust.
At demerger from Smiths News PLC, the Group made a one off contribution of 25m.
In addition, 10m of agreed annual deficit funding was contributed and will continue for the next four years as agreed with the WHSmith Pension Trust Trustees.
On 2 April 2007, the WHSmith Pension Trust was closed to defined benefit service accrual.
The actuarial impact of these changes on the liabilities of the WHSmith Pension Trust has been reflected in the non cash curtailment gain of 10m.
On an ongoing funding basis the gross actuarial defined benefit pension deficit for WH Smith PLC was approximately 46m approximately 33m net of related deferred taxes at 31 August 2007 2006: approximately 116m and 84m net of related deferred taxes.
The actuarial deficit is greater than the IAS 19 deficit primarily due to the different assumptions and calculation methodologies.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 24 SUmmary groUP CaSH fLoW for tHe year ended 31 aUgUSt 2007 m 2007 2006 Net cash inflow from operating activities 83 82 Investing activities Interest received 5 2 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 9 Proceeds on settlement of loan notes 11 Non-operating disposal costs 3 3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 26 24 Purchase of intangible assets 6 5 Net cash outflow from investing activities 28 10 Financing activities Interest paid 2 7 Dividend paid 17 15 Purchase issue of shares for employee share schemes 12 4 Repayments of borrowings 4 76 Repayments of obligations under finance leases 3 4 Derivative cash movements 1 1 Repurchase of C shares equity portion 3 Movement in funding balances with Smiths News PLC 57 Net cash used in financing activities 39 45 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents continuing operations 19 19 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents discontinued operations 3 8 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in year 16 27 Opening net cash and cash equivalents 66 39 Closing net cash and cash equivalents 82 66 reConCiLiation of net CaSH fLoW to movement in net fUndS debt m 2007 2006 Net funds debt at beginning of the year 42 58 IAS 39 B and C shares classified as financial liabilities 7 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 16 27 Decrease in debt 4 76 Net movement in finance leases 2 4 Net funds at end of the year 64 42 Net funds increased by 22m in the year to 64m.
Cash generation has strengthened due to improved profitability and good working capital control.
baSiS of PreParation The Group has prepared its financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards for the year ended 31 August 2007.
For more information on the prior year Group restructuring and the impact on the basis or preparation in that year refer to the Accounting Policies section of the WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
The summary financial statement was approved by the board on 11 October 2007.
Kate Swann Alan Stewart CA SA Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 25 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WH SMITH PLC We have examined the summary financial statement BASIS OF OPINION of WH Smith PLC, which comprises the summary group We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin income statement, summary group balance sheet and 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary summary group cash flow statement, together with the financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices summary directors report and summary directors Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report in the remuneration report.
Companys full Annual Financial Statements describes the basis of our opinion on those Financial Statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as and the directors remuneration report.
a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we OPINION might state to the Companys members those matters we In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is are required to state to them in an auditors report and consistent with the Annual Financial Statements, the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by directors report and the directors remuneration report law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2007 other than the Company and the Companys members as and complies with the applicable requirements of a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIvE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS Deloitte & Touche LLP AND AUDITORS Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual London Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance 11 October 2007 with United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report Notes: Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance to you our opinion on the consistency of the Annual and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in Review and Summary Financial Statement with the particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but Annual Financial Statements, the Directors report and no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area the Directors remuneration report and its compliance Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 26 information for SHareHoLderS ComPany SeCretary and regiStered offiCe Ian Houghton, WH Smith PLC, Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX.
ComPany WebSite This summary report and the full annual report and accounts together with other information can be found on the WH Smith PLC website at www.
annUaL generaL meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the CBI Conference Centre, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU on Thursday 31 January 2008 at 11.30am.
form of Proxy A Form of Proxy is enclosed for those ordinary shareholders unable to attend the Annual General Meeting.
To be effective it must be completed and lodged with the Companys registrars, Equiniti, by not later than 11.30am on 29 January 2008. eLeCtroniC Proxy voting You may if you wish register the appointment of a proxy for the meeting electronically, by logging onto the website www.
regiStrarS On 1 October 2007 the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, changed their name to Equiniti.
finanCiaL CaLendar Financial year end 31 August 2007 Half-year end 29 February 2008 Results announced 11 October 2007 Interim results announced April 2008 Annual Report posted November 2007 Interim dividend ex-dividend date May 2008 Interim Management Statement November 2007 Interim dividend record date May 2008 Final dividend ex-dividend date 9 January 2008 Interim dividend payment date June 2008 Final dividend record date 11 January 2008 Interim Management Statement July 2008 Christmas trading statement January 2008 Financial year end 31 August 2008 AGM 31 January 2008 Results announced October 2008 Final dividend payment date 6 February 2008 The dividend dates shown above are in respect of the Companys ordinary shares of 20p.
SHare deaLing ServiCeS The Company has arranged for Shareview Dealing, a telephone and internet share dealing service offered by Equiniti, to be made available to UK shareholders wishing to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 WH Smith PLC 27 information for SHareHoLderS ContinUed SHaregift If you only have a small number of shares which are uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to charity under ShareGIFT, a charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
UK CaPitaL gainS tax demerger 31 august 2006 Following the demerger of the Company on 31 August 2006, in order to calculate any chargeable gains or losses arising on the disposal of shares after 31 August 2006, the original tax base cost of your ordinary shares of 13 2 81p adjusted if you held your shares at 24 September 2004 and 22 May 1998 to take into account the capital reorganisations of 27 September 2004 and 26 May 1998 respectively see below will be apportioned between the shareholdings of ordinary shares of 20p in the Company and ordinary shares of 5p in Smiths News in the ratio of 0.69585 and 0.30415 respectively.
The cost of your shareholding of ordinary shares of 2 81p is calculated by 5 multiplying the original base cost of your ordinary shares of 55 9p adjusted where necessary to take into account the capital reorganisation of 26 May 1998 referred to above by 0.73979.
The cost of the B shares is calculated by multiplying the original cost of your ordinary shares of 50p by 0.09286. marCH 1982 vaLUeS 31 March 1982 base values per share: Arising from an original shareholding of A ordinary B ordinary shares shares Ordinary shares of 20p 61.62p 50.92p Smiths News PLC ordinary shares of 5p 26.93p 22.25p Old WH Smith B shares 7.94p 6.56p Old WH Smith C shares 22.42p 18.53p 3 Old WH Smith 5 4 per cent cumulative preference shares of 1 each 42.50p 1 Old WH Smith 5 8 per cent redeemable unsecured loan stock 33.25 WH Smith PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 28 FOLD OUT iNSiDE FRONT COVER iNSiDE BACK COVER 168mm wide WHSmiTH AT A gLANCE OUR TWO CORE BUSiNESSES ABOUT US HigH STREET TRAVEL WH Smith PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange WH Smith PLC, one of the UKs leading retailers, is made SMWH and is part of the FTSE 250 Index.
indd 2 19 11 07 17:37:43 BACK COVER FRONT COVER FOLD OUT 168mm wide WH Smith PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2007 www.
