diRECTORS RESPOnSiBiLiTiES STATEmEnT The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors have elected to prepare the parent company Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom the financial statements in accordance with applicable Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom law and regulations.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give Company law requires the directors to prepare financial a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
statements for each financial year.
The directors are In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group required to: financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European a select suitable accounting policies and then apply Union.
The Group financial statements are also required them consistently: by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the b make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and prudent: c state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS have been followed, subject to any material financial statements present fairly for each financial year departures disclosed and explained in the financial the Companys financial position, financial performance statements: and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation d prepare the financial statements on the going concern of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria company will continue in business.
for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework The directors are responsible for keeping proper for the preparation and presentation of financial accounting records that disclose with reasonable statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair accuracy at any time the financial position of the presentation will be achieved by compliance with all Company and enable them to ensure that the parent applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible a properly select and apply accounting policies: for safeguarding the assets of the Company and b present information, including accounting policies, hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
comparable and understandable information: and c provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 40
