Directors responsibilities for the Company financial statements audit report report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Statement of directors responsibilities directors report is consistent with the parent Company financial The following statement, which should be read in conjunction statements.
The information given in the directors report with the auditors statement of their responsibilities below, includes that specific information presented in the Operating is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the Review that is cross referred from the directors report.
respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has in relation to the financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if financial statements for each year which give a true and fair information specified by law regarding directors remuneration view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the and other transactions is not disclosed.
financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group on pages 60 to 63, the Company has used appropriate company financial statements.
The other information comprises accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by only the directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all Executives review, the Finance Directors review and the applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
We consider the implications for The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable or material inconsistencies with the Group company financial accuracy the financial position of the Company and which statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply information.
Basis of audit opinion The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps We conducted our audit in accordance with International as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test irregularities.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Independent auditors report to the members of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes Whitbread PLC an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments We have audited the parent Company financial statements of made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company Whitbread PLC for the year ended 1 March 2007 which comprise financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 12.
These parent are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently Company financial statements have been prepared under applied and adequately disclosed.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is information and explanations which we considered necessary described as having been audited.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable We have reported separately on the Group financial statements assurance that the parent company financial statements and of Whitbread plc for the year ended 1 March 2007. the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, are free from material misstatement, whether caused by in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of to the Companys members those matters we are required to information in the parent company financial statements and state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Opinion assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and In our opinion: the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Respective responsibilities of directors and Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at auditors 1 March 2007: The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been financial statements in accordance with applicable United properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom 1985: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the the information given in the directors report is consistent with Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Ernst & Young LLP requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Registered Auditor Ireland.
London We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company 23 April 2007 financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also page 59 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Directors responsibilities for the Company financial statements audit report
