Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements audit report given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial Statement of directors responsibilities statements.
The information given in the directors report includes The following statement, which should be read in conjunction that specific information presented in the operating review that is with the auditors statement of their responsibilities below, is cross referred from the directors report.
made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or the financial statements.
if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare and other transactions is not disclosed.
financial statements for each year which give a true and fair view We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
on pages 20 to 57, the Group has used appropriate accounting We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance Accounting Standards have been followed.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps We read other information contained in the annual report and accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure statements.
The other information comprises only the directors that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as Finance Directors review and the corporate governance report.
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Independent auditors report to the members of any other information.
Whitbread PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 1 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 37. of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group These Group financial statements have been prepared under the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the accounting policies set out therein.
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the We have reported separately on the parent company financial accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, statements of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 1 March 2007 consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our assurance that the Group financial statements are free from audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Companys members those matters we are required to state irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume financial statements.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Opinion or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, auditors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 March 2007 and of its The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
IAS Regulation: and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the information given in the directors report is consistent with accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the Group financial statements.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Ernst & Young LLP statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group Registered Auditor financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance London with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information 23 April 2007 page 19 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements audit report
