P Aa ng ae lyh se is ao df shares y Ae t a 1 r M en a d re ch d 2 20 M 07 arch 2007 Analysis of shares Band Number of holders % of holders Number of shares % of share capital 1 100 29,311 48.85 1,121,771 0.57 101 500 21,432 35.72 5,191,871 2.62 501 1,000 5,165 8.61 3,612,292 1.83 1,001 5,000 3,186 5.31 5,793,506 2.93 5,001 10,000 229 0.38 1,601,977 0.81 10,001 25,000 186 0.31 2,997,103 1.51 25,001 125,000 257 0.43 15,000,512 7.58 125,001 250,000 96 0.16 17,375,920 8.78 250,001 1,250,000 111 0.18 57,636,783 29.13 1,250,001 2,500,000 16 0.03 28,380,939 14.35 2,500,001 13 0.02 59,131,540 29.89 Total 60,002 100.00 197,844,214 100.00 page 64 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Analysis of shares Contents 1 Directors report 3 Appendix to the directors report risks and uncertainties 5 Corporate governance report 9 Remuneration report 18 Whitbread PLC Consolidated accounts 19 Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements audit report 20 Consolidated income statement 21 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 22 Consolidated balance sheet 23 Consolidated cash flow statement 24 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 58 Whitbread PLC Company accounts 59 Directors responsibility for the Company financial statements audit report 60 Balance sheet 61 Notes to the accounts 64 Analysis of shares The full Whitbread Report and Accounts 2006 7 comprising this document together with the Annual Review and Summary Report are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and can also be obtained, free of charge, by telephoning Capita Registrars on 0870 162 3190.
Designed and produced by Dragon.
Printed by Royle Corporate Print, registered to the environment standard ISO 14001.
The material used in this report comprises 50% recycled fibre and 50% TCF Totally Chlorine Free virgin fibre, sourced from sustainable forests and produced by a mill registered to ISO 14001.
Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Whitbread PLC Whitbread PLC Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Porz Avenue Dunstable LU5 5XE www.
co. uk Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Contents 1 Highlights Whitbread PLC is 2 Chairmans statement 3 Chief Executives review the UKs leading 8 Operating review hospitality company 16 Finance Directors review 18 Corporate responsibility 22 Board of Directors We have made continued progress 24 Summar y remuneration report towards our stated strategic objectives 27 Summar y directors report of focusing our management and 28 Independent auditors statement capital on those businesses in which 29 Summar y consolidated income statement we have leading positions and strong 30 Summar y consolidated statement of growth prospects.
recognised income and expense 31 Summar y consolidated balance sheet 32 Summary consolidated cash ow statement Premier Travel Inn 33 Shar eholder services The UKs leading hotels business, with more than 32,500 bedrooms in over 480 locations throughout the UK.
Restaurants The UKs leading pub restaurants business with nearly 400 outlets, mainly under the Brewers Fayre and Beefeater brands.
More than 270 are co-located with a Premier Travel Inn.
The Annual Review aims to give shareholders a clear and concise overview of the Groups business and prospects, but does not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding David Lloyd Leisure of the results and aairs of the Group as would be The market-leading racquets and health provided by the full Whitbread Annual Report and clubs business with 59 sports, health and Accounts 2006 7. tness clubs across the UK and another 10 clubs overseas.
Throughout this document there may be references to the notes to the accounts.
These notes can be found in the Directors Report and Accounts but are Costa not contained within this document.
With more than 500 stores, one of the UKs biggest branded coee shop The full Whitbread Report and Accounts 2006 7 businesses.
It is also developing outside comprising this document together with the the UK under franchise and now has more Directors Report and Accounts are published on than 175 stores overseas.
co. uk and can also be obtained, free of charge by telephoning Capita Registrars on 0870 162 3190.
Highlights Financial 1 Total revenue for Continuing Whitbread up 10.3% to 1,304.5m 2005 6: 1,182.3m Group like-for-like sales up 4.3% for the 52 weeks 2 Profit before tax and exceptional items from Continuing operations up 24.5% to 213.0m 2005 6: 171.1m Basic EPS for Continuing operations 63.3p: total pre-exceptional EPS 66.3p up 17% on prior year Final dividend up 11% to 22.15p: full year dividend up 10.8% to 30.25p 2005 6: 27.3p Operational Strong performance at Premier Travel Inn and Costa Improved results from Restaurants Turnaround at David Lloyd Leisure underpinning value for shareholders Financial structure Further increase in leverage planned following balance sheet review Restaurant and hotel properties valued on a portfolio basis at 3.6 bn Successful disposal of stand-alone pub restaurants, Pizza Hut and TGI Fridays 750m has been returned to shareholders and an additional 100m paid into the pension fund 1 Continuing Whitbread comprises Premier Travel Inn, the retained Restaurant estate, David Lloyd Leisure and Costa but excludes the disposed pub restaurant sites, the Pizza Hut joint venture, TGI Fridays and any supply chain sales to third parties.
2 Continuing operations comprises Continuing Whitbread plus the disposed pub restaurant sites during the period of Whitbread ownership and supply chain sales to third parties.
page 1 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Financial and strategic highlights Chairmans statement acquisition activity in a limited number of businesses, each of which has real potential for us.
Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend payment of 22.15p per share, making a total dividend for the year of 30.25p per share, an increase of 10.8%.
The final dividend will be paid on 6 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 May 2007.
Focusing our Our people resources to achieve We believe that by taking care of our people they will take care of our guests who will return time and again to drive sales profitable growth and profits.
We rely on our employees to provide millions of guests with a great customer experience.
I would like to thank them for their dedication and enthusiasm.
The results we have Our strategy of creating shareholder achieved this year are a reflection of their hard work.
value by becoming a leaner more The Board focused Group, concentrating our Towards the end of the year Angie Risley announced her intention to leave Whitbread in May to become Human resources on businesses with growth Resources Director of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
Angie has been on the Board since 2004 and has had 18 years of service at potential and real competitive Whitbread in various HR positions.
We regret her decision to leave and thank her for the significant contribution she has advantage, bore fruit during the year.
made to the Company over the many years.
Margaret Ewing also announced her intention to leave the Board as of July.
Margaret was recently appointed vice-chairman of Deloitte and as such is not able to continue as a non-executive director.
She has provided us with invaluable advice and has chaired the Audit Committee over a time of considerable change for the Company.
Both the like-for-like growth rate and the profitability of We also thank Margaret for her service.
Outstanding overall In March 2007 we announced the appointment of revenue growth in Premier Travel Inn and Costa of 16.7% Simon Melliss as a non-executive director.
Simon is the and 22.4% respectively led the way as they both continued Finance Director of Hammerson PLC and has deep experience their expansion in the UK and pursued focused overseas of the property sector.
He joined us on 1 April and will assume growth opportunities.
Meanwhile, David Lloyd Leisure and chairmanship of the Audit Committee on 1 May.
I would our reduced Restaurants estate are showing good recovery like to welcome Simon to the Board and to wish Angie and with growth now resumed in both businesses.
Margaret every success in the future.
During the year we decided to focus our resources further, disposing in September 2006 of our interest in Pizza Hut UK and in March 2007 of TGI Fridays.
These two disposals have taken us totally out of franchised operations allowing us to focus on businesses in which we own and control the brand both in the UK and elsewhere.
We also took a major decision to sell 239 pub restaurant sites for 497 million.
This has enabled us to put our resources behind the exciting Anthony Habgood turnaround plan for our co-located estate where returns Chairman were already above average and where we can take 23 April 2007 advantage of the synergies associated with sharing locations with a Premier Travel Inn.
A further 750 million of disposal proceeds was used to fund returns to shareholders with an additional 100 million paid into the pension fund.
Overhead continued to be reduced, both from the annualisation of measures taken in late 2005 and from further initiatives.
A recent valuation of our restaurant and hotel properties and an associated assessment of appropriate levels of debt for the Group has led us to conclude that we can leverage the balance sheet somewhat more and we will be taking steps to do so in the near future.
This will enable us to make further returns to shareholders.
As a result of our actions, the Group is now utilising its assets more effectively and is better positioned to create shareholder value as it focuses its resources to achieve profitable growth both organically and by selective page 2 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Chairmans statement Chief Executives review membership numbers, sales and profits had all improved.
They have introduced a range of initiatives to improve the services for our members and improve the efficiency of the business.
At the end of March we announced that we had received some unsolicited approaches for the business.
Whilst no decision has been taken to dispose of the business we are currently examining these proposals.
Costa has had another very strong year.
The expansion of the Listening to brand in the UK has been complemented by international openings with new franchise and partnership agreements.
our customers is Both sales and profits have grown strongly and we are convinced that Costa has the potential to be built into a global coffee brand.
key to our success Group performance We have delivered improved Group revenue from Continuing Whitbread grew year-on-year by 10.3% to 1.3 billion and like-for-like sales operational performance across were up 4.3%.
Profit before tax and exceptional items from Continuing operations for the year was up almost a quarter all our businesses.
Total pre-exceptional EPS was 66.3p, up 17% on the prior year.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 22.15p, an increase of 11%, bringing the total dividend for the year to 30.25p 2005 6: 27.3p.
We have delivered improved operational performance across all our businesses.
Premier Travel Inn and Costa have shown strong growth and our plans for international expansion are progressing well.
Early results for the revamped Restaurants business are very encouraging and the joint site Premier Travel Inn Restaurant model is delivering excellent returns.
We are considering approaches for David Lloyd Leisure but, in the meantime, the turnaround and performance of the business is underpinning value.
This past year has seen us work hard at the continuing transformation of Whitbread into a more focused hospitality The current year has started well.
The momentum achieved company delivering strong underlying growth.
We set in the final quarter of last year is continuing.
We have a clear ourselves a number of strategic objectives at the beginning strategy to concentrate our management and capital on of the year and I am pleased to report that we have made growing those businesses in which we have market-leading good progress towards meeting them.
A key priority was to positions and strong growth prospects.
We will continue to improve the operating performance of our wholly owned manage our businesses aggressively and our balance sheet branded businesses.
efficiently to create value for shareholders.
Premier Travel Inn has continued its strong growth trajectory, where we have combined expansion of the estate with a range of measures to improve the customer experience, including an extensive refurbishment programme.
Our Restaurants business saw the greatest change, both operationally and structurally.
During the year we took the decision to dispose of 239 of our pub restaurant sites in order to concentrate on those restaurants that were or had potential to be co-located with our Premier Travel Inns.
The new Restaurants management team has achieved a substantial improvement in performance especially in the second half.
This included an extensive remodelling programme, new menus and improved levels of service.
Alan Parker The year saw these successfully introduced across the whole Chief Executive of the Beefeater estate and extensively rolled out across selected Brewers Fayre outlets.
The initial results have been very encouraging.
The disposal of the pub restaurant sites raised 497 million and the disposal of our interest in Pizza Hut UK realised net proceeds of 99 million.
The sale of TGI Fridays for 70 million completed after the year-end.
We have been working hard to improve the performance of David Lloyd Leisure.
I am pleased to report that, at the end of the first full year of the new managements actions, page 3 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continued Property and Balance Sheet Review During the year we returned 750 million to our shareholders and a further 100 million was contributed to the pension fund.
Further, in the second half of the year we have reviewed the balance sheet to ascertain the appropriate medium term financing structure for the Group.
Following this review we have decided to increase the level of leverage in the business on a pension and lease adjusted basis from under four times adjusted net debt to EBITDAR to under five times, an increase of around 400 million.
To effect this change it is our intention during the first half of the financial year to finance the Group through issuing bonds secured on the hotel and restaurant assets.
In the absence of any further value creating opportunities and based on our current investment plans, we would look to return the additional monies raised through this financing to shareholders net of any further payments made into the pension fund.
As part of this review and to support the financing we have also undertaken an independent review of our restaurant and hotel assets.
The reported market value of this portfolio of assets for existing use as a single entity is 3.6 billion.
Premier Travel Inn Business account card revenues were up Outlook 49% generating 75.1 million of revenue.
The current year has started well.
The momentum achieved in the final quarter of last year is continuing.
We have a clear strategy to concentrate our management and capital on growing those businesses in which we have market-leading Our progress positions and strong growth prospects, whilst continuing This time last year I announced that we would: to deliver improved operational performance.
accelerate the growth of our high-performing brands Our strategy with the continued expansion of Premier Travel Inn in the UK to 45,000 rooms and the doubling of the number of We have a clear strategy to concentrate our management Costa stores by 2010 11: and capital on those owned businesses in which we have market-leading positions and strong growth prospects.
dispose of our stand-alone pub restaurant sites and We are now a leaner and more focused group and our clear concentrate our resources on the joint site model: and focus is to drive operational performance and to continue the expansion of our successful brands.
review our investments in TGI Fridays and Pizza Hut UK.
During the year we made outstanding progress in all of these areas and met the targets we had set.
We now have over 32,500 Premier Travel Inn rooms and have increased the size of the Costa estate from 550 to more than 700 stores.
We successfully disposed of the stand-alone pub restaurant sites and, having completed the review of our investments in TGI Fridays and Pizza Hut UK, we disposed of our interests in those businesses.
The year ahead Our targets for 2007 8 are to: open a further 3,000 bedrooms in our Premier Travel Inn estate: add an additional 300 stores to our Costa estate: and continue the remodelling of Brewers Fayre sites to the new style.
We will report on our progress against these objectives this time next year.
Premier Travel Inn Premier Travel Inn has had another strong year, with like-forlike sales up by 8.2%.
The business is an excellent example of Love Espresso, Love Frescato!
We introduced a new low fat the results that can be achieved by listening to the views of its creamy range of Frescatos last summer to meet our customers customers.
We have received more than 400,000 responses to wishes with seasonal varieties of the popular ice-cold drink.
the newly launched Guest Satisfaction Survey and over 90% of page 4 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Chief Executives review Chief Executive Alan Parker at the opening of one of our new stores in Shanghai, China.
Overseas expansion As part of the strategy of expanding the Premier Travel Inn and Costa businesses, good progress has been made during the year in expanding overseas.
Costa now has more than 175 stores overseas in 18 different countries.
During the year Our Restaurants have developed refreshed menus offering we announced our expansion into the Eastern European improved value and greater variation.
market, with agreements in place to launch Costa in Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, and we opened our first stores in China.
Premier Travel Inn has taken its first step internationally.
customers said that they were likely to return and stay again.
Our joint venture with Emirates has secured the first site Continuous Improvement is a key principle of the Whitbread in Dubai to open a 303-bed hotel in Dubai Investment Park.
Way and the team at Premier Travel Inn has demonstrated its Construction has already begun and we expect to open the commitment, with the business being Most Improved Hotel hotel in 2008.
Brand of the year in the 2007 BDRC British Hotel Guest Survey for the second year running.
I have taken a personal interest in our overseas operations and have made visits to India, China and the Middle East Restaurants to see for myself the opportunities that exist in these new The new Restaurants management team has been working markets.
I am confident that by choosing the right local on a combination of refreshed menus offering improved partners we can build a successful overseas business.
value and more stylish environments.
The results from the sites remodelled to date have been encouraging with weekly sales and meals sold increasing significantly in both Beefeater and Brewers Fayre.
Sales in the remodelled sites are up circa 25% on average.
We are confident that the action being taken by the Restaurants team, as well as the decision to focus on those sites with a Premier Travel Inn alongside the restaurant, will continue to drive improved operational performance.
David Lloyd Leisure The David Lloyd Leisure management team put in place a number of initiatives to aid growth and this has led to an improved performance this year.
We have taken a more consistent approach to pricing and made innovations in our product offering and development.
Utility cost cutting initiatives have been rolled out across the estate reducing overheads and improving productivity.
Costa The acceleration in the number of new Costa stores has contributed to an increase of 22.4% in total sales.
The story at Costa though, is not all about new sites.
Like-for-like sales are up 6.6% following an increase in sales at our re-imaged stores Membership at David Lloyd Leisure now stands at 374,000. and the Costa stored value card was launched during the year 41% of our customers join to lose weight and get in shape.
with the intention of building brand loyalty.
Our expansion Our weight loss programme, with advice on diet, exercise plans for the year ahead are evidence of the great confidence and motivation is running at all clubs.
page 5 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continued WINcard: Whitbread in Numbers P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P10 P11 P12 YTD Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Like-for-like covers growth BF L L L L L L L L L L L L L Occupancy vs budget PTI L L L L L L L L L L L L L profit growth site L L L L L L L L L L L L L Complaint ratio BF L L L L L L L L L L L L L Guest recommend PTI L L L L L L L L L L L L L Mystery guest BF L L L L L L L Brand audit PTI L L L L L L L L L L Like-for-like sales growth BF L L L L L L L L L L L L L Like-for-like sales growth PTI L L L L L L L L L L L L L Team turnover site L L L L L L L L L L L L L Health and safety site L L L L L L L L L L L L L better than budget L better than last year but worse than budget L worse than budget and last year L The WINcard shown above is the year-end WINcard of a Brewers the WINcard at that time highlighted to management that things Fayre site.
The site is a joint Premier Travel Inn and pub restaurant were not as they should be and enabled action to be taken to site, so there are targets for both parts of the business shown on improve the sites performance.
As can be seen above, there was a the WINcard.
Clearly, the performance of the site in the early part significant improvement made during the second half of the year.
of the year wasnt acceptable.
The amount of red and amber on Guest recommendation we encourage our guests The WINcard to provide feedback on their experience and we measure In order to meet our business objectives we need to deliver to their satisfaction.
our three key stakeholder groups: Like-for-like sales growth this measures changes in how our people: much guests spend with us on a comparable basis.
our guests: and People measures our investors.
Team turnover this measures how many people leave the business and indicates our success in keeping our people We believe that by taking care of our people, our guests will motivated and happy.
This measurement is important to have a great experience and want to come back.
This will Whitbread because we believe that, as well as reducing drive up sales and profits, keeping our investors happy.
recruitment and training costs, happy and motivated people will provide a better service to our customers.
In order to measure our performance in keeping each of these stakeholders satisfied we have developed a Health and safety this measures how well we look after both balanced scorecard known as the WINcard.
The WINcard our people and our guests.
This is extremely important to us is fundamental to the way in which we run our business.
and highlights the commitment we put into peoples safety.
It provides a common set of measures that are used in every hotel, store, club and restaurant, in every strategic Each individual site WINcard is made up of a number of these business unit and at Group level.
It is central to how we make and similar elements as applicable to that particular site.
decisions, performance manage and incentivise our people.
The WINcard uses a trafc light system to show at a glance The measures are both financial and non-financial key how the Company and each of its businesses is performing.
Our people are incentivised based on that performance.
The WINcard is made up of a number of measures including Generally, red means that performance is worse than the the following: previous year and below budget.
Amber means that the performance is an improvement on the previous year, but still Investor measures below budget.
Green shows that performance is better than Brand expansion this tracks the rate at which we are the previous year and has met or exceeded the budget.
expanding our strategic business units.
How the Group performed in 2006 7 ROCE growth this measures the eectiveness of our capital The full year WINcard for the Group showed eight targets expenditure decisions to ensure that we continue to spend achieved a green rating, whilst one achieved an amber our investors money wisely.
This means that in eight of our key measures, the profit growth scoring well on all elements of the WINcard Group performed better than the previous year and better should mean that profits grow accordingly.
In the other area, the Group improved on the performance in the previous year, but didnt achieve the Guest measures 2006 7 target.
Brand standards all of our businesses are audited Whilst we always strive to achieve 100% of our targets, this regularly against set criteria to ensure that they live up is an excellent result.
page 6 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Chief Executives review PEOPLE GUEST INVESTOR Asset disposals Management change Over the past 12 months we have successfully completed Angie Risley, Group Human Resources Director, has decided the following asset disposals: to leave Whitbread to take over as Group Human Resources Director at Lloyds TSB Group plc.
Angie has been with 239 stand-alone pub restaurant sites were sold to Whitbread for 18 years during which time she has held a Mitchells & Butlers in July 2006 for a total of 497 million: number of senior human resources roles across the Group.
Angie will step down from the Board on 22 May 2007.
I would our interest in Pizza Hut UK Limited was sold in September like to thank Angie personally for her significant contribution 2006 to Yum!
Restaurants Holdings for net proceeds of to the Company and for all the support she has given me.
99 million: and Im delighted to announce that Louise Smalley will be joining our TGI Fridays business was sold in March 2007 the Executive Council as our new Group Human Resources for 70.4 million.
Louise has been with Whitbread since 1998, latterly Return of capital to shareholders as Human Resources Director of Restaurants.
During the year we have returned 750 million to our Total shareholder return shareholders.
In July 2006, we returned 400 million by way of The chart below shows the Companys total shareholder a bonus issue of B Shares and in January 2007 we returned a return since March 2006 as compared to both the travel and further 350 million by way of a bonus issue of C Shares.
In both leisure market index and the FTSE All Share Index.
The chart cases, the returns were structured so as to give shareholders shows that Whitbread has significantly outperformed both a choice between receiving the cash in the form of income or of these other groups over the year.
capital and, so far as possible, to give those who chose capital some choice as to when that return would be made.
Events through the year, including the announcement of major transactions, are highlighted to show how total Both of these returns were accompanied by share consolidations shareholder return moved in response.
in order to maintain comparability of earnings per share and other company data.
Our people Contributions to pension fund Underpinning the success our businesses have had over the last year is our determination to listen to our customers and At 1 March 2007 there was a gross pension fund deficit of to ensure that we are providing them with the environment, 196.0 million net deficit after deferred tax of 137.2 million.
products and services that they expect.
This time last year we announced that we would be making contributions totalling 190 million over the next five years.
Id like to take this opportunity to thank our 35,000 team Of this, 50 million was due to be paid in 2006 7.
When members who have continued to provide a really excellent returning cash to shareholders in January 2007, the Company level of service to the millions of customers that visit our agreed to make an additional contribution of 50 million into outlets every day.
They are the public face of Whitbread and the fund.
As a result, the total of the further contributions their embodiment of the Whitbread Way principles is the made during the year was 100 million.
key to delivering the results our shareholders expect.
Cost reductions Last year we announced a major cost reduction programme, delivering cost savings of some 25 million from the underlying cost base of the business, which have now been achieved.
We have identified a further 15 million of cost savings following the disposals which have taken place during the year.
We also announced last year that we intended to Alan Parker consolidate our three Bedfordshire based offices into two Chief Executive sites.
This consolidation was completed in September 2006 and Whitbread House in Luton was sold for 5.3 million.
23 April 2007 80% 70% 60% 400m return Sale of Sale of interest Further 350m return TGI Fridays sale announced to shareholders and stand-alone in Pizza Hut UK and interim results 50% annual results announced pub restaurants announced announced announced 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% -10% March 06 June 06 September 06 December 06 March 07 Travel & Leisure market FTSE All Share Whitbread This chart shows how Whitbreads total shareholder return has significantly outperformed both the travel and leisure market index and the FTSE All Share Index since March 2006.
Major transactions are highlighted to show how total shareholder return moved in response.
page 7 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Chief Executives review &43% !LL 3HARE 4RAVEL, EISURE MARKET 7HITBREAD 60% 60% 50% 50% 40% 40% 30% 30% 20% 20% 10% 10% 0% 0% -10% Whitbread Travel & Leisure market FTSE All Share -10% Travel & Leisure market FTSE All Share Whitbread Premier Travel Inn Much more room Premier Travel Inn has delivered another strong performance in 2006 7.
Total revenue for the year increased by 16.7% to 458.5 million with operating Premier Travel Inn continues to have one of the highest profit up by 20.3% to 156.2 million, occupancy levels of any national branded hotel chain in the UK with like-for-like occupancy at 79.5% for the year.
driven by an accelerated expansion During 2006 7 we opened 2,500 new guest bedrooms and programme and a 4.8% increase in 19 new sites in the UK, including the acquisition and conversion of seven Holiday Inn sites.
We continued to invest in our revenue per available room to 37.68. existing estate to improve the guest experience and spent 26 million on improving the quality of our guest bedrooms Profit per room now exceeds 5,000 and the ongoing rollout of our new bedroom design.
Like-for-like sales We have increased focus on customer satisfaction and recently launched a new Guest Satisfaction Survey, receiving increased by 8.2%.
The results were encouraging and over 90% said they were likely to return and stay again.
Our good night guarantee is still unrivalled we promise that guests who have not been entirely satisfied with their stay get their money back.
Premier Travel Inn 2006 7 change We are driving efficiency throughout the business, and our leading edge reservation system has continued to make Revenue 458.5m 16.7% excellent progress in developing routes to market.
In the last Like-for-like sales 8.2% quarter we reached a record high of 50% of all reservations being taken online.
Business account card revenues were up Operating profit pre exceptionals 156.2m 20.3% 49% generating 75.1 million of revenue.
Over the course of Operating profit post exceptionals 156.0m 19.9% the year we have seen PBIT margins improve by 1.1% points, due largely to efficiencies made in the overhead cost base.
Premier Travel Inn is investing for growth and has a UK room target of 45,000 rooms opened by 2010 11, an average rate of 3,000 rooms per annum.
This year approximately half of the rooms opened will be on Whitbread owned land and alongside a Whitbread restaurant.
Internationally, work has commenced on building our first hotel in Dubai, through our joint venture with Emirates and a pipeline of further sites has been identified in the Gulf region.
We are also in the early stages of assessing further opportunities outside of the UK.
We continue to make excellent progress in making it easier for our customers to book a room.
In the last quarter we reached a record high when 50% of all reservations being taken online.
page 8 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review 22,000 guests are contacted every week 90% of guests are likely to return to Premier Travel Inn Were listening!
Listening to our guests is fundamental to how Premier Travel Inn operates.
In 2006 7 we launched our new hotel Guest Satisfaction Survey, whereby we email guests within 48 hours of their stay to ask them about all aspects of their experience.
400,000 guests responded last year in detail about their stay.
page 9 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review Restaurants Delicious results There has been a significant shift in the shape of our Restaurants business.
In July we disposed of 239 pub restaurant sites for 497 million in order to This growth was as a result of the initiatives that have concentrate on those restaurants been put in place by the new management team since June 2006.
The performance has been driven by the investment in that were co-located with our Premier the estate, the newly remodelled and repositioned Beefeater sites, with an improved guest proposition and enhanced food Travel Inns, or where there was potential platform and environment.
There has also been an improved performance in the underlying business.
to build a Premier Travel Inn alongside.
The remodelling of the Beefeater estate is now complete, This business is now more focused with a clear, refreshed proposition around great grilled food.
Despite the substantial reduction of discounting, volumes are and performing well.
Like-for-like sales continuing to grow with weekly covers up by 6.6%.
We expect to see further improvement in the coming year as the most growth has clearly improved, growing recently remodelled restaurants come on-stream and we by 2.7% in the second half.
re-direct marketing spend into advertising the new, improved Beefeater offering.
The Beefeater model is performing well and we are planning to open the first new Beefeater for six years later this year.
Restaurants 2006 7 change We have fully trialled the new concept within Brewers Fayre Revenue 518.9 16.3 % of informal contemporary food in a stylish environment and this was rolled out across 20 units last year with more Like-for-like sales 0.9% conversions to be completed this year.
This re-image is Operating profit pre exceptionals 52.3m 30.2 % delivering strong results and we will undertake a further 100 conversions in 2007 8.
Operating profit post exceptionals 247.8m 256.0% The investment in our restaurant estate and redevelopment of the guest proposition is already translating into sales growth, with an average sales uplift of circa 25% flowing through from the converted restaurants.
There is a strong customer focus and we have worked hard to improve the guest experience.
The new and improved menus offer a broader range of choice and we are sourcing higher specification ingredients.
Processes have been made more efficient.
Tighter cash controls are in place with an emphasis on the reduction of product wastage and better management of stock.
Labour scheduling has also been improved and we have seen greater levels of productivity.
The co-located restaurant and Premier Travel Inn model is continuing to produce revenue and cost benefits for both businesses and is moving towards our target of delivering the best returns in the business.
Profits at joint site restaurants The investment in our Restaurants estate and redevelopment were over 50% higher than stand-alone restaurants.
Over the of the guest proposition is already translating into sales coming year we will continue to add Premier Travel Inns to the growth, with an average sales uplift of circa 25% flowing stand-alone restaurants we retained, as well as opening over through from the converted restaurants.
10 new joint sites this coming year.
page 10 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review 46 Beefeaters remodelled since March 2006 38.1 million meals served in our Restaurants this year Were listening!
Ssshhhhh our Restaurants have developed a combination of great grilled food, refreshed menus and more stylish environments adding theatre to our customers experience.
page 11 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review David Lloyd Leisure Greater muscle David Lloyd Leisure has made significant progress through the year.
Total revenue increased by 5.7% to 237.3 million, driven by a more Membership has remained stable through the year in the consistent approach to pricing and like-for-like clubs, whilst overall we increased our membership with the opening of a new club in Aberdeen and continued improved revenues from ancillary sales growth from other recently opened clubs.
David Lloyd Leisure has been reinvesting in the business and in the fabric of across all clubs.
Like-for-like sales were the estate.
There have been innovations made in product development, technology and membership systems, up by 2.7% driving profit growth in the member communications and team member training.
A new management structure has been put in place at all 69 sites and brand standards have been established across the clubs with the focus on expertise, service and engagement skills.
David Lloyd Leisure 2006 7 change We have improved efficiencies and a pricing re-evaluation Revenue 237.3m 5.7% in October addressed a number of anomalies.
A consistent Like-for-like sales 2.7% pricing structure and standard set of terms and conditions were introduced in January.
Utility cost cutting initiatives have Operating profit pre exceptionals 46.4m 12.3% been rolled out across the estate improving productivity, and Operating profit post exceptionals 37.1m 92.2% work hours have been benchmarked as a way of controlling labour costs, whilst improving the member experience.
There is now a stronger focus on the food and beverage offering and revenues have been driven by the launch in September of a completely new menu and the introduction of Costa Coffee estate-wide.
All front of house staff have been re-trained with a focus on better service and up-selling.
The performance in Europe has also been pleasing.
All 10 clubs have been aligned and now have the same brand standards as the clubs in the UK.
David Lloyd Leisure is committed to Europe and expects to see further growth from its European clubs.
Going forward, David Lloyd Leisure will improve revenue per member by further yield management and pricing strategies which reflect further investment in the quality of the member experience.
Key customer groups have now been clearly identified to help drive membership and we have agreed a number of partnerships with the aim of maximising revenue opportunities in the off-peak periods.
The new Swindon club is expected to be completed this summer and a further three UK sites have been secured.
Membership has remained stable through the year in the like-for-like clubs, whilst overall we increased our membership with the opening of a new club in Aberdeen and continued growth from other recently opened clubs.
page 12 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review first national chain to roll out Power-Plates the latest tness equipment that oers a complete body workout in 10 minutes Were listening!
Due to requests from our members we have relaunched Tennis All Stars, the junior tennis 374,000 programme developed with Andy Murray and the LTA, David Lloyd Leisure members with increased competitions, achievement certicates and progress reports to learn a new skill and have fun.
page 13 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review Costa Extra shots Costa has had another exceptional year.
Total revenue for the year grew 22.4% to 175.1 million, driven in part by an acceleration in the number of There were also openings in new markets such as Poland, new outlets opened in the UK and Romania, Bulgaria and China.
Total like-for-like sales in UK equity stores were up 6.6%, largely due to an increase in the internationally.
number of transactions and improved sales at our re-imaged stores.
Pricing was broadly stable, although more premium products such as speciality coffee were introduced during the second half of the year.
Operating profit pre exceptionals for the year was up 36.1% to 18.1 million, with higher productivity reflected in improved margins.
Costa 2006 7 change The re-imaging programme announced last year has proven Revenue 175.1m 22.4% highly successful and we are seeing a solid return on our investment, achieving significant like-for-like sales growth Like-for-like sales UK equity 6.6% at the re-imaged stores.
The refurbishment programme is Operating profit pre exceptionals 18.1m 36.1% now largely complete.
The customer experience has been enhanced with the development of stronger interiors, Operating profit post exceptionals 16.4m 82.2% further innovation within food and the introduction of more premium products.
Underpinning the customer offer is the fact that we roast all our own coffee beans and that every cup of coffee served in a Costa store is hand made by a Barista and is of the highest quality.
In October 2006 the Costa stored value card was launched and has been well received with fast growing use.
Promotional support will be increased over the coming year to drive customer loyalty and further sales growth.
The Costa Book Awards formerly the Whitbread Book Prize have also proved a success for Costa and have been a great brand building opportunity.
In a recent survey conducted by Costa, 66% of customers said they would strongly recommend the brand to friends and family, up from 60% at the beginning of the year.
Costa has also increased the rate at which it opens new stores with 127 new stores opened in the UK and 72 overseas, making a total of 199 for the year compared to 146 in the previous year.
Since the year-end our total number of UK stores has grown to 545, on a par with Starbucks.
Costa has aggressive expansion plans and is on track to achieve its target of 2,000 stores by 2010 11, with growth in both the UK and internationally.
To improve our customer experience we have been introducing new lines of food and drinks to our stores, including these delicious muffins, made to a new recipe using the best ingredients to give a home-baked taste.
page 14 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review 199 new Costa stores opened in the last 12 months Were listening!
Our customers demand a hassle-free experience.
In October 2006 the Costa stored value card was launched 66% and has been well received of our surveyed customers would with fast growing use.
strongly recommend the brand page 15 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Operating review Finance Directors review Pizza Hut On 31 July 2006 Whitbread announced an agreement to sell its 50% shareholding in Pizza Hut UK to Yum!
This sale was completed on 12 September 2006.
In line with IFRS 5, profit generated by the joint venture has been excluded from the consolidated income statement in 2006 7 and prior year income has been moved into As a result of further significant discontinued operations.
changes in the Groups structure, TGI Fridays On 2 March 2007 Whitbread completed the sale of the the focus of the statements is on TGI Fridays business to Carlson Restaurants Worldwide Inc. continuing operations.
Profit generated by the business in 2006 7 has been included within discontinued operations, with prior year comparatives restated accordingly.
The net assets of the business have been Changes in Group operations classified as held for sale at the year-end.
There have been four major changes in the Groups operating Details of the financial performance of the discontinued entities compared to the prior period.
businesses and the effects of the disposals can be found in note 10 to the accounts on pages 36 to 37 of the Directors Marriott Report and Accounts.
The disposal of Whitbreads Marriott business was completed on 21 April 2006.
Revenue On 5 May 2005 Whitbread sold its Marriott business into a Group revenue from continuing operations fell 5.4% year-on-year joint venture company, owned 50% each by Whitbread and to 1,410.8 million.
This reduction was driven by the part-year a subsidiary of Marriott International, with a management impact of the restaurant disposals.
Revenue from Continuing contract held by Marriott International.
Like-for-like sales were up by 4.3% with the remainder of the turnover growth coming from the On 21 April 2006 this joint venture company was sold to the net increase in outlets, notably in Premier Travel Inn and Costa.
Royal Bank of Scotland with proceeds being returned to both Whitbread and Marriott International.
Revenue by business segment Profit generated from the joint venture has been excluded m 2006 7 2005 6 change from the consolidated income statement, in accordance with 1 Premier Travel Inn 458.5 392.9 16.7% IFRS 5, as the investment in the joint venture was held for sale David Lloyd Leisure 237.3 224.6 5.7% at the 2005 6 year-end.
Seven properties were retained by 1 Whitbread outside of the joint venture and all have been sold Restaurants retained 436.4 424.5 2.8% during the period.
Trading results for these seven properties are Costa 175.1 143.0 22.4% included within discontinued operations.
Less: inter-segment 2.8 2.7 3.7 % Stand-alone restaurants Sales from On 28 July 2006 Whitbread announced the sale of 235 trading Continuing Whitbread 1,304.5 1,182.3 10.3% restaurants, together with four sites not yet trading, to 2 Mitchells & Butlers PLC.
The sale of 222 of these assets was Restaurants disposed 82.5 195.4 57.8 % completed that day with the remaining 17 sites being sold by Other 23.8 114.2 79.2 % early September.
The trading results for the 235 sites up to the date of sale are aggregated within continuing operations and Revenue from the 2005 6 comparatives include a full 52 weeks of trade from continuing operations 1,410.8 1,491.9 5.4... all of these sites.
1 After restatement for breakfast sales amounting to 14.9 million 2 As a result of this sale Whitbread has reviewed the accounting Part year impact in 2006 7 arrangements of food and beverage sales between the Results Restaurants and the Premier Travel Inn businesses.
Total profit for the year is 281.5 million up 6.5% on last year.
Historically in joint sites, profits arising from breakfast sales Profit before tax and exceptional items from the continuing in a restaurant next to a Premier Travel Inn were accounted operations was 213.0 million, up 24.5% on last year.
for within Premier Travel Inn, together with a share of the profit generated from Premier Travel Inn guests eating in the Exceptional items adjacent restaurant in the evening an adjacency fee.
These Net exceptional profits after tax amounted to 130.4 million.
arrangements allowed the Restaurants business to compare This amount is analysed in more detail in note 6 to the accounts.
the economic performance of its stand-alone sites against The major items included within this category are noted below.
those with an adjacent hotel.
Business disposals With the focus now on joint sites, the rationale for continuing The three principal businesses disposed of during the year with this allocation mechanism has gone and breakfast generated pre-tax profits of 245.1 million: 20.3 million loss income is now reported within Restaurants with no adjacency on the Marriott Hotels transactions offset by 196.6 million fee being taken.
The prior year has been restated and the profit for stand-alone restaurants and 68.8 million profit for impact in 2005 6 is to move 10.0 million of profit from Pizza Hut UK.
Premier Travel Inn to the Restaurants business.
page 16 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Finance Directors review Impairment provisions totalling 140 million over the next four years including Following the annual assessment of trading of all of the 50 million per annum in 2007 8 and 2008 9.
Groups individual cash generating units we have made Balance sheet structure 12.6 million of provisions against the carrying value of assets of which 8.2 million related to David Lloyd Leisure and the During the second half of the year we have reviewed the remainder to a small number of restaurants and Costa outlets.
balance sheet to ascertain the appropriate medium term financing structure for the Group.
This review has led us to Reorganisation costs conclude that it would be appropriate to increase the level Following the sale of the pub restaurants we announced of leverage in the business on a pension and lease adjusted a further review of head office costs and the savings arising basis from under four times adjusted net debt to EBITDAR to from this reorganisation will amount to 15.0 million in 2007 8. under five times, an increase of around 400 million.
Total reorganisation costs incurred during the year were To effect this change it is our intention, during the first half 21.4 million which include the final cost of the restructuring of the financial year to finance the Group through issuing announced in October 2005 plus the cost of the reorganisation bonds secured on the hotel and restaurant assets.
In the following the sale of the 239 pub restaurant sites.
absence of any further value creating opportunities and based on our current investment plans we would look to Interest return the additional monies raised through this financing to Underlying net interest costs have fallen by 39.3% year-onshareholders net of any further payments to the pension fund.
This is a result of lower average net debt These decisions on the most appropriate level of leverage and the during the year following receipt of the business disposal method of financing have been taken in the light of the ambitious proceeds, and, with a reduction in the pension deficit, an organic growth and investment plans we have for our businesses improvement in the pension finance charge.
and the benefits from retaining control over our assets as we drive Taxation shareholder value through extending and reconfiguring large parts of the restaurant and hotel estate.
Todays results continue The UK tax expense of 68.8 million represents an effective to demonstrate that there is still much value to be added to our rate of 32.3% on the continuing businesses before exceptional properties by further improving our operations.
items, which compares with 33.3% for the full year in 2005 6.
The charge includes deferred tax.
Property Earnings per share As an integral part of the review of the appropriate medium term financing structure for the Group, we have, as a one off Underlying basic earnings per share increased by 17.0% exercise, commissioned a review by Gerald Eve of the value of to 66.3p.
Details can be found in note 11 to the accounts our restaurants and hotels assets on a portfolio basis as at on page 38 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
The reported market value of this portfolio of Dividend assets for existing use as a single entity is 3.6 billion.
A final dividend of 22.15p per share, an increase of 11.0% over Post balance sheet event review last year, will, subject to approval at the AGM, be paid on 6 July On 2 March 2007 the Group sold its interest in TGI Fridays for 2007 to all shareholders on the register at the close of business a consideration of 70.4 million.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 30.25p, an increase of 10.8% on last year.
Capital expenditure Total Group capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets was 243.3 million.
This included 233.0 million relating to continuing operations, split between acquisition expenditure, which includes the Christopher Rogers acquisition and development of properties 146.3 million, Finance Director and maintenance expenditure 86.7 million.
23 April 2007 Financing Net debt at the year-end amounted to 898.6 million, compared to 970.3 million as at 2 March 2006.
The principal non-trading movements leading to the reduction were 849.1 million of business and asset disposals and a 24.4 million favourable fair value movement, partially offset by a 732.9 million capital return to shareholders and two additional pension fund payments of 50 million each.
Pensions An additional 100 million was injected into the fund during the year and at 1 March 2007 there was a gross pension fund deficit of 196.0 million net deficit after deferred tax of 137.2 million.
This compares to a gross deficit of 338.0 million as at 2 March 2006 net deficit after deferred tax of 236.4 million.
Under the agreement signed with Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited in April 2003 and updated in October 2005 the Group expects to make further contributions page 17 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Finance Directors review Corporate responsibility Environment The environment is an area of importance to all of Whitbreads stakeholders.
Better management of the Companys environmental impact in recent years has improved performance and reduced business costs.
Whitbreads aim is to continue with the current approach of cost reduction-led initiatives, with consequent Whitbread has long believed that environmental gains.
The Company is working to identify further opportunities where it can reasonably contribute to corporate responsibility is about the wider environmental agenda.
integrity, a core Whitbread value and Benchmarking environmental performance that behaving responsibly also makes Whitbread benchmarks its performance against other companies by participating in the Business In the sound business sense.
Community Corporate Responsibility and Environment Indices.
These indices help the Company to identify how it can improve its own performance.
Whitbread is also listed in In this report, the Company explains how its activities 1 the FTSE4GOOD Index and is Energy Accredited.
in the environment, the workplace, the community and the marketplace have improved business performance.
Energy and Waste team Whitbread believes in fairness, teamwork and tolerance of Whitbreads Energy and Waste team is responsible for the peoples differences in an environment of mutual trust and management, monitoring and reporting of gas, electricity consideration.
Whitbread expects its people to show high and water usage as well as waste disposal and recycling.
standards of personal behaviour and to deal fairly with each The team is targeted to eliminate wastage, increase energy of the following groups: efficiency and, where possible, reduce energy consumption shareholders: and the volume of waste going to landfill.
employees: Energy consumption The Company has made solid progress this financial year, customers: with Group like-for-like electricity consumption 568 sites suppliers: and reporting down by 3.4%.
This is a saving of 10 million KW.
David Lloyd Leisure, Whitbreads biggest electricity consumer, improved its like-for-like consumption for Whitbreads participation in the Business in the Community the fifth successive year with a 5.9% reduction, saving Corporate Responsibility Index enables it to benchmark approximately 423,000. its activity against other companies.
In this years index Whitbread achieved an overall score of 85% and feedback Premier Travel Inn made good progress to integrate its from the survey will help the Company to further improve acquired hotels into Whitbreads energy monitoring its corporate responsibility performance.
The majority of hotels with 50 bedrooms now have data logging electricity meters, allowing improved energy management.
Restaurants like-for-like electricity consumption improved by 3.6%, saving approximately 317,000.
2 Whitbread Groups like-for-like gas usage was down by 3.5%.
David Lloyd Leisure is Whitbreads biggest user of gas due to its installed combined heat and power systems.
David Lloyd Angie Risley Leisures like-for-like consumption was down by 5.3% and Group Human Restaurants like-for-like consumption was down by 1.8%.
Resources Director was directly responsible for corporate responsibility throughout the year 750k savings in electricity across the Group page 18 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Corporate responsibility In 2007, Whitbread participated in the Carbon Trusts Low People Carbon Refurbishment case study project.
A Beefeater was At Whitbread there is a clear recognition of the need to recruit chosen and refurbished using low carbon improvements and retain high calibre people for the Company to live up to such as an enhanced low energy lighting scheme.
Early its customer proposition of service and product excellence.
results have shown a successful reduction in energy usage Whitbread is committed to delivering programmes and and a new refurbishment specification has been developed.
providing opportunities that help create attractive and rewarding places to work, support the communities in which Water consumption we operate and help Whitbread become the Employer of The Energy and Waste team monitor water usage and Choice.
This process has identified a number of leaks that were consequently repaired.
The team Whitbread employs more than 35,000 people, mainly in also checks surface water charges and sewerage charges and the UK, and has a range of policies covering such issues as challenges them as appropriate.
diversity, employee well-being and equal opportunities.
The Company works closely with a number of organisations, The successes of the Energy and Waste team in the which support the delivery of these policies and provide management of water efficiency were recognised by the it with the opportunity to recruit from a diverse range of Environment Agency Water Efficiency Awards 2007, where talent pools.
The Company believes that by looking after its people, its Waste and recycling people will provide an excellent service to its customers and have a positive impact on the Companys financial A key ongoing project for the Energy and Waste team is performance.
In addition, the positive effect on team to ensure that Whitbread sites are all included in a Group turnover will reduce the costs associated with recruitment contract for general waste.
This enables the Company to and training.
The importance Whitbread places on this is report better quality environmental data, covering more of evidenced by the fact that team turnover is a key measure on the estate.
To date, 123 sites have been added to the Group the WINcard.
contract, with more in the pipeline.
Last year, the Company reported that the amount of glass Focus on training recycled had dropped due to the loss of its glass-recycling At Whitbread, great emphasis is placed on improving the contractor partway through the year when it ceased service.
skills, expertise and performance of employees through a Since then, the Energy and Waste team has been working continuous programme of training and development, which hard to rectify this, by rolling out new glass collection services addresses skills development, leadership development and wherever possible in the Restaurants estate.
At the start management development.
Training is delivered through a of the financial year, 55% of the Restaurants estate was combination of on the job training, e-learning and external recycling glass.
At the end of the year, this had been increased training providers.
Overall, the weight of glass recycled has increased from 828 tonnes to 2,737 tonnes.
Employee involvement Whitbread is committed to listening to and involving its Recycling is becoming increasingly important with significant employees and believes that open and regular two-way landfill tax increases planned for 2008. communication at all levels is an essential part of the Car fleet carbon emissions management process.
Once a year every person in Whitbread gets a chance to take part in the VIEWS survey.
Whitbread achieved a target, set in 2002, to reduce carbon The survey allows us to listen to what people think about emissions from its car fleet by 12% and, as a result, has the company they work for and the environment they work a four star rating under the Transport Energy Motorvate in.
Serious consideration is given to the findings at a senior programme.
It is one of few private sector companies to level and actions put in place to address feedback from achieve this rating.
Key results from the survey carried out Further information can be found in the Environment Report in 2006 are shown below.
on our website, which will be made available later in 2007.
1 Energy Institute Carbon Trust National Energy Foundation.
2 W ith the exception of David Lloyd Leisure, figures are based on Overall satisfaction 82% billing data only, often including estimated meter readings.
Therefore caution needs to be exercised on the published figures.
Overall high 86% commitment score My manager seems to 88% care about my well-being 350k Our team is committed to 90% delivering high quality savings in gas across VIEWS survey results the Group These excellent results demonstrate the effectiveness of Whitbreads investment in its peoples well-being.
page 19 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued The Whitbread Apprenticeships programme provides employees the Group has a detailed health and safety management with the opportunity to develop skills and gain nationally plan, which is reviewed regularly by the Board and the recognised qualifications in hospitality and catering.
executive teams of the strategic business units: During 2006, Whitbread was awarded a National Training the Board continues to receive quarterly health and safety Award South East for its e-learning programme and was Highly reports to enable it to effectively monitor and review Commended in the 2006 National Apprenticeship Awards.
performance and health and safety is reviewed on a monthly basis at the Executive Council: Pay and benefits various health and safety related workshops are available The Companys pay and benefits packages are designed for employees to improve their skills and expertise: and to attract and retain employees at every level within the business.
Salaries are internally and externally benchmarked the Company continues to invest in and enhance its award on a regular basis.
Emphasis is given to rewarding people winning e-learning training programmes and all outlets through added value benefits, both at Group and business now have access to e-learning facilities.
unit level as a means of enhancing the packages further.
The Restaurants business was recognised for its health and Whitbread is developing flexible employment packages as safety performance at the prestigious RoSPA Health & an incentive to attract and retain good people.
The business was given a silver award acknowledges that flexible working opportunities benefit in recognition of its robust health and safety management everyone employers, employees and their families.
Flexible systems and its commitment to achieving high levels of working arrangements can help to retain skilled employees performance in this crucial area.
It can also help boost staff Excellent health and safety procedures are vital to the success morale and reduce absenteeism.
For our employees, it gives of the Company.
Poor health and safety would undermine them a greater ability to balance work and outside work the work being done to look after the Companys people responsibilities.
and reduce the confidence of customers in the Companys businesses.
The Company understands that good health Employee well-being and safety is not only about meeting legal requirements Because the well-being of employees is extremely important and moral obligations, but also about protecting its to Whitbread, all employees and their immediate families are financial performance.
provided with access to the Whitbread Employee Assistance Programme.
This offers a round the clock, confidential Commitment to food safety counselling service which can provide professional advice on Whitbread is committed to ensuring the safety of the food and any issue from financial and relationship problems in their beverages provided to customers through its outlets.
All food personal life to work related issues.
handling and hygiene standards are developed and managed Whitbreads focus on the well-being of its employees has in conjunction with technical consultants, Checkmate been rewarded with 18th place in the 2007 Sunday Times International CMi, a leading assurance, inspection and Best Companies to Work For Big List.
Over 650 companies certification body for assured food standards.
This helps entered in all.
Whitbread is the only hospitality company Whitbread to keep in close touch with all national and to be listed and has an employee base far greater than any international standards as well as new developments relating other successful entrant.
to food and drink product safety.
In addition, Whitbread was named in the top three for The approach is to operate an integrated field to fork Best for Work and Home Balance and shortlisted for Most strategy to assure food safety controls across the Whitbread Improved.
This is testament to the Companys commitment supply chain.
This approach is supported by a team of to its people at all levels of the business.
experienced food technologists working closely with suppliers, buyers and developers.
Food safety controls are Code of Business Ethics embedded into all menu developments across Whitbread.
The Company has established a Code of Business Ethics which is widely briefed to employees on an annual basis.
Community The Code sets out the high standards of integrity that the Whitbread has been actively involved in the community Company expects from its people.
Throughout this time the Company has started, joined, funded or supported a huge range of leading Health and safety and award-winning programmes.
Whitbread recognises the significance of effective health Today, Whitbreads community investment programme and safety management and is committed to providing focuses on providing financial and in-kind support to a safe, secure and healthy environment for both guests employees and to the charities and good causes which are and employees.
This commitment can be evidenced in the close to their hearts.
By engaging the Companys employees following areas: in volunteering and fundraising activities, Whitbread believes Health and safety continues to be one of the key measures they can really make a difference in the communities in which on the Companys WINcard.
All outlets receive an they live and work.
independent audit, and all strategic business units have built on their strong performance from last year: page 20 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Corporate responsibility Consumer issues For Whitbread, the key areas currently include healthier Match-funding lifestyles, food safety, outlet accessibility for all customers, Whitbreads match-funding scheme was re-launched in listening to customer needs and developing mutually September 2006 and demonstrates the Companys support beneficial relationships with suppliers and contractors.
for the volunteering work carried out by Whitbreads people.
Whitbread is extremely proud of the high operational All Whitbread employees can apply for an award of up to standards it has set.
However, the Company is always looking 750 which provides financial support for the charities and for new ways to improve its business offer.
organisations to which they regularly commit their time and Healthier lifestyles energy.
The hard work and commitment of the Companys employees not only benefits the organisations which they Much of the food served in Whitbreads businesses is prepared support but also provides an opportunity for them to develop on site from fresh ingredients.
However, in response to changing the skills and experience they have learned in the workplace.
consumer needs, the Company continues to work closely with its suppliers of bought-in processed foods to limit the levels of fat Payroll giving including saturated and trans fats, added sugar and added salt Whitbreads Payroll Giving scheme has been operating since that are found in these products.
Whitbread continues to offer a 1997 with a current participation level in excess of 17% of the range of healthier choice dishes.
workforce and annual donations set to reach 500,000 this Working with our suppliers we have made excellent progress year.
In 2006 Whitbread was rewarded with a Gold Award as to date in removing hydrogenated oils and fats from our part of the Government funded Payroll Giving Quality Mark.
Our target, with few unavoidable exceptions, is The scheme recognises organisations that actively promote to have removed all of these from all products in the UK by Payroll Giving in the workplace, match employee donations August 2007. and achieve more than a 10% participation rate.
No smoking environments Junior Chef Academy With new legislation banning smoking in all Scotlands The Junior Chef Academy provides opportunities for 14-16 public places last year and from all English pubs and clubs year olds from selected schools to attend cookery and chef later this year, Whitbreads policy on smoking aims to reflect skills lessons in colleges across the UK and Ireland.
Over changing public attitudes and provide an attractive and safe 1,200 children have graduated from the scheme since it environment for both our staff and customers.
As well as chef skills, the programme teaches basic hygiene, health and safety and nutrition, as Smoking is already not permitted in the Companys Costa well as the more softer social and communication skills.
and David Lloyd Leisure businesses or public areas of Premier Students from several local schools in the community come Travel Inn.
Smoking is only allowed in designated sections of together to learn in a fun environment.
The programme restaurant bar areas and in unenclosed, outdoor areas.
No culminates in a graduation ceremony in which the students smoking is allowed at the bar counters, in back of house staff prepare and serve a three-course lunch for parents, industry areas or in dining areas of any of Whitbreads businesses.
Summary Hospitality Action The Company has made excellent progress on corporate Premier Travel Inns nominated charity for 2007 8 is responsibility during the year and has been recognised by a Hospitality Action.
The charity raises money for people number of prestigious organisations including Business in who work, or have worked, in the hospitality industry and the Community, RoSPA and The Sunday Times.
This report have fallen on hard times.
This demonstrates Whitbreads demonstrates that by doing the right thing it is also possible commitment to caring for its people.
Costa Foundation Costa has established the Costa Foundation.
Each year the Foundation will develop and implement sustainable programmes that aim to improve the social and economic welfare of coffee growing communities.
In 2007 the Costa Foundation is planning to build, improve and maintain four schools within three coffee growing communities in Colombia, Ethiopia and Uganda.
The Angie Risley foundation will also be investing in the provision of better Human Resources Director sanitation and the supply of clean water.
Further information can be found at www.
org 23 April 2007 page 21 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Corporate responsibility Board of Directors Anthony Habgood Christopher Rogers Position: Chairman since August 2005 Position: Finance Director Appointment to the Board: May 2005 Appointment to the Board: May 2005 Age: 60 Age: 47 Committee membership: Nomination Chairman and Remuneration Committee membership: None External appointments: Bunzl plc Chairman External appointments: HMV Group plc Non-executive director SVG Capital plc Senior Independent Director Previous experience: Qualified as an accountant with Price Waterhouse Mlnlycke Healthcare UK Limited Chairman before joining Kingfisher plc in 1988.
Subsequent roles included Group Financial Controller at Kingfisher plc, Finance Director, and then Commercial Previous experience: Director of The Boston Consulting Group Inc. from 1977 Director, at Comet Group plc before becoming Finance Director at to 1986.
Director and then Chief Executive of Tootal Group PLC.
Chief Executive Woolworths Group plc.
Also held non-executive directorships at Geest PLC, Marks and Spencer Group plc, National Westminster Bank Plc and Powergen plc.
Alan Parker Angie Risley Position: Group Human Resources Director Position: Chief Executive since June 2004 Appointment to the Board: May 2004 Appointment to the Board: May 2000 Age: 60 Age: 48 Committee membership: Nomination Committee membership: None External appointments: British Hospitality Association Director External appointments: Biffa Plc Non-executive director VisitBritain Director Previous experience: Joined Whitbread in 1989.
Roles have included Human University of Surrey Visiting Professor Resources Director of Whitbread Hotel Company and Whitbread Restaurants.
World Travel & Tourism Council Director Previous experience: Managing Director of Crest Hotels Europe, based in Frankfurt.
Senior Vice-President of Holiday Inn Europe, Middle East and Africa, based in Brussels.
Joined Whitbread in 1992 as Managing Director of Whitbread Hotel Company.
Anthony Habgood Alan Parker Christopher Rogers Angie Risley page 22 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Board of Directors Rod Kent Position: Senior Independent Director since April 2003.
Also Chairman of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited Appointment to the Board: September 2002 Age: 59 Philip Clarke Committee membership: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Position: Independent non-executive director External appointments: Bradford & Bingley plc Chairman Appointment to the Board: January 2006 Close Brothers Group plc Chairman Grosvenor Limited Chairman Age: 47 Grosvenor Group Holdings Non-executive director Esme Fairbairn Foundation Trustee Committee membership: Remuneration Previous experience: Gained extensive investment banking experience as External appointments: Tesco PLC Director Managing Director of Close Brothers Group until October 2002.
Previously Previous experience: Has eight years board experience gained at Tesco where Chairman of the M&G Group PLC.
he has responsibility for the International division ten countries, five in Europe and five in Asia and Information Technology.
Philip was previously Group Supply Chain Director at Tesco.
Charles Gurassa Position: Independent non-executive director Simon Melliss Appointment to the Board: July 2000 Position: Independent non-executive director Age: 51 Appointment to the Board: April 2007 Committee membership: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Chairman Age: 54 External appointments: LOVEFiLM International Chairman Mobileserv UK Co. Ltd Chairman Committee membership: Audit Chairman designate WP Roaming II S. A.
Chairman Worldwide Excellerated Leasing Ltd Chairman External appointments: Hammerson PLC Group Financial Director 7 Days Limited Chairman Previous experience Having trained as an accountant he has held a number National Trust Ltd Trustee of financial roles at Reed International PLC and Sketchley PLC, before joining Whizz-Kidz Ltd Trustee Hammerson in 1991 where he became Group Finance Director in 1995.
Previous experience: Has significant knowledge and experience in the travel and Simon has also previously held a non-executive directorship at Associated tourism industry, having been Chief Executive of Thomson Travel Group and a British Ports Holdings PLC.
Previously Chairman of Virgin Mobile Holdings UK plc.
Margaret Ewing Position: Independent non-executive director Appointment to the Board: July 2005 Age: 52 Committee membership: Audit Chairman, Remuneration and Nomination External appointments: Vice Chairman and Partner, Deloitte Previous experience BAA plc Chief Financial Officer, Trinity Mirror plc Group Finance Director, and Transaction Services, Deloitte Senior Partner.
Rod Kent Charles Gurassa Margaret Ewing Philip Clarke Simon Melliss page 23 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Board of Directors Summary remuneration report Introduction Whitbreads continued success is dependent on the skills and enthusiasm of the people who work in our businesses.
This report focuses on directors remuneration, but the principles which form the basis of the Companys remuneration policy apply to all the managers of Whitbreads businesses.
By ensuring that our employees are fairly and appropriately The full remuneration report is set incentivised and rewarded, we believe that they will continue to deliver outstanding service to our customers and value to out on pages 9 to 17 of the Directors our shareholders.
This summary My colleagues and I on the Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor the Companys remuneration packages report states Whitbreads remuneration to ensure that they are appropriate.
policy and the aggregate directors Remuneration policy remuneration for 2006 7.
The full The Company policy for directors remuneration for 2007 8 and subsequent financial years is that the overall package remuneration report will be the subject will be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
They will be expected to of a shareholder resolution to be have the skills, expertise, enthusiasm and drive to achieve the Groups objectives and to enhance shareholder value.
Such remuneration packages will reflect their personal contribution and the Companys overall success.
The Committee recognises the importance of having a significant Contents of this report proportion of an executives remuneration being linked to Introduction from Charles Gurassa performance.
Further, in order to promote retention and Remuneration policy sustained corporate performance, the balance between short-term and long-term rewards is important.
Directors service contracts The remuneration of executive directors comprises the Aggregate directors remuneration in 2006 7 following elements: base salary: The Remuneration Committee comprises: benefits: Charles Gurassa Chairman pension: Anthony Habgood Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive Scheme: and Philip Clarke Long Term Incentive Plan rewards.
Margaret Ewing Details of each of these elements follow.
Rod Kent Base salary With the exception of Anthony Habgood, Chairman of Whitbread, all of the above individuals are independent non-executive directors.
Base salaries are reviewed annually.
Market data is made Anthony Habgood was independent on his appointment as Chairman available and is one of a number of factors considered by the of the Company.
Committee in making its decisions.
Before awarding any base salary increase to directors, careful consideration is given to trading circumstances across the whole Group and personal performance against agreed objectives.
Benefits Charles Gurassa Chairman, Life assurance and private health cover are core benefits Remuneration Committee provided to all executives.
Non-core benefits, for which cash alternatives are available, are family health cover and a fully expensed company car.
Pensions The final salary section of the Whitbread Group Pension Fund was closed to new entrants, including directors, on 31 December 2001.
All new recruits after that date are offered participation in the defined contribution section of the scheme.
For executive directors, the policy is to pay a Company contribution of 25% of salary.
After each of five and ten years service these contributions will be increased by a further 2.5% of salary.
page 24 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary remuneration report In response to the tax reforms to pension provision in April Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive Scheme 2006, the Remuneration Committee reviewed its policy on The Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive Scheme was future pension provision, with a view to ensuring that there implemented during 2004 5. will be appropriate choices for our executives going forward at no additional cost to the Company.
The policy objectives of this scheme are: The principles that we used for this review were: to provide a clear link between performance and reward, in order to motivate key executives: the Company would not be meeting any increased tax burden of the executive directors arising as a result to place a greater emphasis on equity rewards promoting of the reforms: alignment with shareholders interests: and no advance payments would be made to pension funds: to promote retention by deferring a significant part of the rewards.
a limited number of choices would be offered to all executives: The Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive Scheme applies to over 40 executives.
The levels of rewards are graduated the changes would save costs for Whitbread: to reflect levels of responsibility.
Whitbread would mitigate its balance sheet risk on Structure existing pension obligations and limit its exposure on Two types of awards can be made under the scheme any future commitments: following the end of the financial year, both of which are executives would be offered the opportunity to leave the performance related.
These are: pension scheme and receive cash supplements instead of a cash bonus that is immediately payable: and pension.
The value of the cash alternative would depend on when the executive had joined the scheme: an award over Whitbread shares known as deferred equity, which will normally vest three years later provided that the joiners after 31 December 2001 would be able to choose executive remains employed by the Whitbread Group.
to leave the money purchase section of the scheme and receive a monthly cash payment equal to the contribution Levels of award less an amount equal to the employers national insurance The normal levels of cash bonus and deferred equity awards payable on this amount: payable under the scheme to executive directors at different executives who joined after 1989 but before 31 December levels of performance are: 2001 would be able to choose to opt out of the final salary section of the scheme and receive cash payments see Below threshold Nil below in lieu of future pension accrual both for future and Threshold 10% cash past pensionable service: and 20% deferred equity executives who joined before 1989 would be able to choose On target 22.5% cash to opt out of the scheme for future pensionable service, 50% deferred equity but remain in the scheme in respect of past pensionable service.
For this reason, the equivalent cash payments for Stretch 55% cash this category would be less than that for joiners after 1989.
100% deferred equity The cash supplements were calculated by an independent the bonus amounts shown are the maximum amounts, even where actuary and consisted of: the performance exceeds stretch.
i annual cash supplements equivalent to those available The percentages in the table are expressed as a percentage to a new executive under the Companys current pension of the base salaries.
A straight-line will operate between the arrangements plus, where necessary, above levels of performance.
ii an additional fixed amount payable at retirement or Threshold will be the minimum target at which rewards will annual amounts, if the executive prefers, payable on a be earned.
Targeted level of performance will be consistent money purchase basis into the pension scheme, calculated with budgeted performance, and stretch will be significantly to reflect the actual cost of the benefits before the change.
The cash supplements will be reduced to reflect the In addition, a maximum of 20% of salary cash bonus will Companys expected national insurance liability.
be payable, subject to achieving a minimum percentage of the profit target, for meeting WINcard targets see The assumptions adopted will lead to lower pension costs page 6 for details about the WINcard.
These targets apply for the Company in future.
to all management throughout the Company, as well as the Details of the cash supplements for each executive director are executive directors.
The targets are set at the beginning of provided on page 14 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
each financial year and, for directors, reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee after the year-end.
As a result of the above changes, Alan Parker opted out of the pension scheme on 31 May 2005 and Angie Risley opted out The 2007 8 cash bonus and deferred equity awards payable under of the pension scheme for future benefit accrual the Leadership Group Incentive Scheme will be based on profit on 31 March 2006.
Christopher Rogers opted out of the before tax.
In addition, each strategic business unit as well as the defined contribution pension scheme on 31 March 2006.
Group has a ROCE target to achieve.
Failure to achieve this target would result in a 25% reduction in any annual cash bonus and deferred equity payable for profit performance under the Scheme.
page 25 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary remuneration report Summary remuneration report continued Position in Vesting schedule 350 TSR comparator group 300 Upper quartile and above Full vesting 250 of half the award 200 150 Between median and Pro rata on a straight-line upper quartile between quarter and full 100 vesting of half the award 50 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Median Quarter of half the award Source: Whitbread PLC FTSE 100 Index Datastream vests Historical TSR performance Below median None This graph looks at the value, by 1 March 2007, of 100 invested in Whitbread PLC between 2 March 2002 and The vesting schedule for the other half of any awards made 1 March 2007 compared with that of 100 invested in the from 2007 will be: FTSE 100 Index, based on 30 trading day average values.
Whitbreads average Vesting schedule Each year the Board sets a series of profit targets for the Group annual EPS compound and for each strategic business unit within the Group.
The growth over three years profit targets are set according to the commercial strategy of RPI 10% Full vesting of half of the the Company at the start of the financial year under review.
award At the end of the financial year, the profit results are Between RPI 4% Pro rata on a straight-line calculated and the Remuneration Committee assesses each and RPI 10% between quarter and full director against the pre-determined targets.
The value of vesting of half of the award the rewards is calculated and independently verified for the RPI 4% Quarter of half Committee by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
of the award vests Long Term Incentive Plan Below RPI 4% None During the year we have decided to make a change to the way in which the Long Term Incentive Plan operates.
The Plan For the awards that were due to vest on 1 March 2007, no longer forms part of the Whitbread Leadership Group i. e. those awards granted in 2004, the performance condition Incentive Scheme, and awards under the Plan will, in future, was relative TSR and was partially met, resulting in a vesting be calculated based on a percentage of the executives level of 72.7%.
The comparator group comprised salary.
We believe that this is appropriate to ensure that the 22 comparators at the time of measurement and Whitbread Plan is used to incentivise the executive over the three-year was ranked ninth, which is between median and upper quartile.
performance period rather than focusing on an individual year.
We have added a second performance condition to future awards under the Plan.
Half of future awards will Directors emoluments for 2006 7 require a relative TSR target to be met and the other half The directors aggregate emoluments for 2006 7 were of future awards will require an earnings per share growth 4,349,201.
In addition, the aggregate value of awards target to be met.
made to directors under the Long Term Incentive Plan was 1,279,688.
The aggregate amount of gains made by The executive directors, together with selected other senior directors on the exercise of share options during the year executives, may be granted an annual award under the Long was 429,193 and the aggregate market value of awards Term Incentive Plan.
Alan Parker will be eligible for an award exercised by directors under long term incentive schemes based on 125% of his base salary and Christopher Rogers an during the year was 382,703.
The aggregate amount of award based on 100% of his base salary.
contributions paid by the Company to money purchase These awards will, under normal circumstances, vest three pension schemes in respect of the directors was 2,640. years after the date of grant provided that the individual During the year, two of the current directors accrued benefits remains an employee and the performance conditions are met.
under the defined benefit pension scheme and one current director accrued benefits under the money purchase pension The performance conditions selected by the Remuneration scheme.
Committee will apply separately to each half of the award and will be relative TSR and earnings per share growth.
The Directors service contracts Committee believes that these conditions closely align the The Remuneration Committees policy is that all executive interests of executives to those of shareholders.
directors should have rolling contracts of employment with The TSR comparator group comprises constituents of the notice periods of 12 months.
Angie Risleys contract will FTSE 51-150 at the date of grant.
This is regarded as the terminate on 22 May 2007 when she leaves Whitbread.
most appropriate group given the size of the Company.
Signed and approved on behalf of the Board Performance will be measured over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is made.
Averaging will take place over a three-month period before the start and end of the performance period to reduce the impact of short-term share price fluctuations.
Charles Gurassa The vesting schedule for half of any grants made from 2007 is: Chairman, Remuneration Committee, 23 April 2007 page 26 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary remuneration report Value of hypothetical 100 holding Summary directors report Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and, with one exception, complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Full details can be found on pages 3 to 6 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
Share capital The full directors report and full At the start of the year, the authorised share capital was Corporate governance report are 315 million divided into 540 million ordinary shares of 1 58 3 pence each.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting on set out in the Directors Report and 20 June 2006, shareholders approved a share consolidation and the creation of 265 million B non-cumulative preference Accounts 2006 7, which can be found shares of 1 penny each.
As a result, with effect from 20 June 2006 the authorised share capital changed to 317.65 million on the Companys website or obtained 32 divided into 459 million ordinary shares of 68 51 pence each by writing to the Companys registrar and 265 million B non-cumulative preference shares of 1 penny each.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting on at the address shown on page 33.
18 December 2006, shareholders approved a further share consolidation and the creation of 224 million C non-cumulative preference shares of 1 penny each.
As a result, from Principal activities and review of the business 18 December 2006, the authorised share capital changed A detailed review of the Companys activities, the to 319.89 million divided into 410,170,050 ordinary shares 122 development of its businesses, and an indication of likely of 76 153 pence each, 265 million B non-cumulative future developments are given on pages 3 to 15. preference shares of 1 penny each and 224 million C non-cumulative preference shares of 1 penny each.
Results and dividends Details of the issued share capital can be found in note 29 to the accounts on page 48 of the Directors Group profit before tax and Report and Accounts.
exceptional items from continuing operations 213.0m Purchase of own shares Group profit before tax The Company is authorised to purchase, in the market, the and after exceptional items Companys own shares.
Approval to renew this authority for from continuing operations 375.2m a further year will be sought from shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
The Company did not purchase any of its own ordinary Interim dividend paid shares during the year.
8.10p per share on 2 January 2007 Auditors Recommended final dividend 22.15p per share Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to Total dividend for the year 30.25p per share continue in office as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be shareholders at the AGM.
After proper consideration, the payable on 6 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at the Audit Committee is satisfied that the Companys auditors, close of business on 4 May 2007.
Ernst & Young LLP, continue to be objective and independent of the Company.
In coming to this conclusion the Audit Board of directors Committee gave full consideration to the non-audit work The directors at the date of this report are listed on pages carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
22 and 23 of the Annual Review and all except Simon Melliss The Audit Committee has considered what work should not served throughout the year.
Simon Melliss joined the Board be carried out by the external auditors and has concluded as an independent non-executive director of the Board on that certain services including internal audit and IT consulting 1 April 2007 and will take over as Chairman of the Audit services will not be carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
Simon Melliss will stand for election, and Anthony Habgood Disclosure of information to auditors and Christopher Rogers will stand for re-election, at the The directors have taken all reasonable steps to make forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles themselves aware of relevant audit information and to of Association.
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are not aware of any relevant audit information Details of directors service contracts are given in the which has not been disclosed to the auditors.
remuneration report on page 12 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
None of the non-executive directors has a service contract.
page 27 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary directors report Independent auditors statement Summary directors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued 1 March 2007 Risks and uncertainties We have examined the Groups summary Appended to the full Directors Report is the Boards analysis financial statement for the year ended of what it believes to be the main risks and uncertainties 1 March 2007 which comprises the summary facing the Company.
Full details can be seen on pages 3 to 4 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
consolidated profit and loss account, the summary consolidated statement of Annual General Meeting recognised income and expense, the summary The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 19 June 2007 at The Queen consolidated cash flow statement, and the Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The notice of meeting is enclosed with this summary consolidated balance sheet.
report and is accompanied by a letter from the Chairman.
By order of the Board This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Simon Barratt Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by the law, we do Company Secretary not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than 23 April 2007 the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have Registered office: formed.
Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Respective responsibilities of directors Porz Avenue and auditors Dunstable The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Bedfordshire Report in accordance with applicable law.
LU5 5XE Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review and Summary Report with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Whitbread PLC for the year ended 1 March 2007 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 23 April 2007 The Auditors have issued an unqualified report on the annual financial statements containing no statement under Section 237 2 or Section 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985. page 28 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary directors report Independent auditors statement Summary consolidated income statement 1 March 2007 Restated Year to 1 March 2007 Year to 2 March 2006 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,410.8 1,410.8 1,491.9 1,491.9 Cost of sales 199.0 199.0 274.7 274.7 Gross profit 1,211.8 1,211.8 1,217.2 1,217.2 Distribution costs 841.9 13.6 855.5 839.4 20.7 860.1 Administrative expenses 119.4 20.8 140.2 145.1 23.9 169.0 Operating profit 250.5 34.4 216.1 232.7 44.6 188.1 Share of profit from joint ventures 0.3 0.3 Share of profit from associates 0.6 0.6 0.9 0.9 Operating profit of the Group, joint ventures and associates 251.1 34.4 216.7 233.9 44.6 189.3 Net loss on disposal of business and investments 8.7 8.7 Net profit on disposal of pub restaurants 196.6 196.6 Profit before financing and tax 251.1 162.2 413.3 233.9 53.3 180.6 Finance costs 40.1 40.1 64.0 25.5 89.5 Finance revenue 2.0 2.0 1.2 1.2 Profit before tax 213.0 162.2 375.2 171.1 78.8 92.3 Tax expense 68.8 77.0 145.8 57.0 12.8 44.2 Net profit from continuing activities 144.2 85.2 229.4 114.1 66.0 48.1 Discontinued operations Net profit on disposal of businesses 48.5 48.5 208.0 208.0 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 6.9 3.3 3.6 36.0 27.7 8.3 6.9 45.2 52.1 36.0 180.3 216.3 Profit for the year 151.1 130.4 281.5 150.1 114.3 264.4 Attributable to: Parent shareholders 151.4 130.4 281.8 150.0 114.3 264.3 Equity minority interest 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 151.1 130.4 281.5 150.1 114.3 264.4 Dividends paid and proposed per share in respect of the period pence Special 135.00 B share dividend 155.00 C share dividend 159.00 Interim 8.10 7.35 Final 22.15 19.95 Restated Earnings Earnings per share Earnings per share Year to 1 March 2007 Year to 1 March 2007 Year to 2 March 2006 Continuing Total Continuing Total Continuing Total operations operations operations operations operations operations Earnings per share m m p p p p Basic for profit for the period 229.7 281.8 100.61 123.43 18.17 99.85 Basic for underlying profit # 144.5 151.4 63.29 66.31 43.10 56.67 Diluted for profit for the period 229.7 281.8 99.83 122.47 18.02 99.03 Diluted for underlying profit # 144.5 151.4 62.80 65.80 42.75 56.20 Earnings used for earnings per share calculations are after the add back of minority interests.
# Underlying profit is profit before exceptional items.
page 29 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary consolidated income statement Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Year ended 1 March 2007 Year to Year to 1 March 2 March 2007 2006 m m Cash flow and net investment hedges: Loss taken to equity 1.1 0.3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.9 1.4 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension schemes 38.0 93.5 Tax on items taken directly to or from equity 11.9 28.6 Net gain loss recognised directly in equity 24.1 63.8 Profit for the period 281.5 264.4 Total recognised income and expense for the period 305.6 200.6 Attributable to: Parent shareholders 305.9 200.5 Equity minority interest 0.3 0.1 305.6 200.6 Effect of changes in accounting policy on the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Equity holders of the parent: Net loss on cash flow hedges on first time adoption of IAS 39 3.2 page 30 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Summary consolidated balance sheet 1 March 2007 1 March 2 March 2007 2006 m m Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 78.5 79.0 Property, plant and equipment 2,487.6 2,677.1 Investment in joint ventures 1.1 35.2 Investment in associates 0.9 0.8 Other financial assets 1.1 5.4 Derivative financial instruments 56.8 78.5 2,626.0 2,876.0 Current assets Inventories 12.8 17.5 Trade and other receivables 67.5 119.0 Income tax prepayment 7.1 21.0 Derivative financial instruments 8.3 10.2 Cash and cash equivalents 70.5 49.6 166.2 217.3 Assets classified as held for sale 59.1 302.6 Total Assets 2,851.3 3,395.9 Liabilities Current liabilities Financial liabilities 86.3 145.1 Provisions 6.2 0.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 Trade and other payables 287.1 277.8 379.6 423.8 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 882.8 874.8 Preference shares 3.2 3.1 Provisions 15.2 32.5 Derivative financial instruments 5.9 3.0 Deferred income tax liabilities 309.5 174.2 Pension liability 196.0 338.0 1,412.6 1,425.6 Total Liabilities 1,792.2 1,849.4 Net Assets 1,059.1 1,546.5 Equity Share capital 151.9 151.1 Share premium 38.1 36.1 Capital redemption reserve 4.7 Retained earnings 2,738.9 3,231.8 Currency translation 0.8 1.7 Other reserves 1,875.6 1,877.0 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,058.8 1,543.7 Equity minority interest 0.3 2.8 Total Equity 1,059.1 1,546.5 Alan Parker Chief Executive Christopher Rogers Finance Director 23 April 2007 page 31 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary consolidated balance sheet Summary consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 1 March 2007 Year to Year to 1 March 2 March 2007 2006 m m Profit for the year 281.5 264.4 Adjustments for: Taxation charged on total operations 153.3 39.2 Net finance cost 37.4 89.0 Total income from joint ventures 6.3 Total income from associates 0.6 10.3 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 195.7 3.0 Net profit on disposal of businesses and investments 48.5 191.7 Impairment loss on revaluation of Condor joint venture 29.3 Depreciation and amortisation 102.8 118.8 Impairment of property and goodwill 12.6 35.2 Reorganisation costs 13.3 Other non-cash items 8.2 2.8 Operating profit before working capital changes 334.6 380.7 Decrease in inventories 4.1 2.3 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 74.7 18.3 Decrease in trade and other payables 4.0 10.3 Payments against provisions 8.7 16.6 Payment to pension fund 102.3 103.0 Cash generated from operations 298.4 234.8 Interest paid 39.3 91.5 Taxes paid 12.8 40.7 Net cash flows from operating activities 246.3 102.6 Cash flows from investing activities Disposal of investments, subsidiaries and joint ventures discontinued 361.5 889.2 Disposal of investments continuing 6.9 Net cash disposed of 18.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 241.2 228.6 Purchase of intangible assets 2.1 1.6 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 487.6 12.0 Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 2.7 0.2 Dividends from joint venture 11.1 Dividends from associates 71.6 Interest received 3.2 1.5 Net cash flows from investing activities 606.3 743.7 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 7.6 14.4 Costs of purchasing own shares 275.8 9.5 Increase in short-term borrowings 26.1 6.1 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 49.1 610.0 Issue costs of long-term borrowings 1.4 Repayment of long-term borrowings 123.4 1,013.0 Dividends paid 529.0 475.5 Net cash flows used in financing activities 845.4 868.9 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 7.2 22.6 Net foreign exchange difference 1.2 0.6 Opening cash and cash equivalents 30.1 52.1 Closing cash and cash equivalents 36.1 30.1 Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents shown above 36.1 30.1 Add back overdrafts 34.4 19.5 Cash and cash equivalents shown within current assets on the balance sheet 70.5 49.6 Including disposed of net overdraft page 32 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Summary consolidated cash flow statement Designed and produced by Dragon.
Portrait photography by George Brooks and Martin Levenson.
Shareholder services the related shareholder circulars.
Further information on For further information about the capital gains tax allocations in relation to the B and C share issues can be found in the investors private shareholders Company and its businesses please section of the Companys website www.
visit the Whitbread website at Unsolicited mail www.
co. uk We are aware that some other companies shareholders have had occasion to complain of the use, by outside organisations, of information obtained from those Registrars companies share registers.
Whitbread, like other companies, Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, cannot by law refuse to supply such information provided Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, HD8 0LA that the organisation concerned pays the appropriate statutory fee.
The website address is www.
If you are a resident in the UK and wish to stop receiving For enquiries regarding your shareholding please telephone unsolicited mail then you should register with the Mailing 0870 162 3190, or email whitbread@capitaregistrars.
Preference Service, telephone: 020 7291 3310 or you may prefer to write to: You can also view up-to-date information about your holdings by visiting www.
The Mailing Preference Service Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ Please ensure that you advise Capita promptly of any Company Secretary and Registered Office change of address.
Simon Barratt Dividend reinvestment plan Whitbread PLC Full details of the plan, which offers you the chance to Whitbread Court reinvest your cash dividend in the purchase of additional Houghton Hall Business Park Whitbread shares, are available from the registrars at the Porz Avenue address given above or on www.
co. uk in the Dunstable investors private shareholders section.
Bedfordshire LU5 5XE Dividend payment by BACS We can pay your dividends direct to your bank or building Shareholder enquiries: 0870 162 3190 society account using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
This means that your dividend will be in your Share dealing services account on the same day we make the payment.
Your tax voucher will be posted to your home address.
If you would Capita Registrars Northern House, Woodsome Park, like to use this method of payment please ring the registrars Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, HD8 0LA on 0870 162 3190.
com Sharegift Stocktrade 81 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3EZ Tel: 0845 840 1533 quote ref: Low Co0101 If you have a small number of Whitbread PLC shares, with www.
html a value that makes it uneconomical to sell them, you may donate the shares to charity through the Sharegift scheme These details have been provided for information only and any operated by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further action you take is at your own risk.
If you are in any doubt about information on Sharegift can be obtained from their website what action to take, please consult your own financial adviser.
Should you not wish to use these services you could find a broker in www.
org or by calling 020 7337 0501. your local area, on the internet or enquire about share dealing at any high street bank or building society.
The availability of these Capital gains tax services should not be taken as a recommendation to deal.
Market values of shares in the Company as at 31 March 1982 were as follows: A limited voting shares of 25p each 103.75p Financial diary 2007 8 dates subject to confirmation B limited shares of 25p each 103.75p 24 April Results announcement Whitbread has had discussions with the Inland Revenue 2 May Ex dividend date for final dividend concerning the capital gains tax cost of Whitbread shares 4 May Record date for final dividend following the reduction of capital on 10 May 2001.
It is 19 June AGM at QEII Conference Centre confirmed that the market value of each Whitbread share on 6 July Payment of final dividend 10 May 2001 for these purposes was 606.5p and the market value of each Fairbar share was 230p.
30 August Half year-end 16 October Announcement of half year results For the purposes of calculating UK tax on chargeable gains which may arise on a disposal of shares in the Company, 31 October Ex dividend date for interim dividend subsequent alterations to the Companys capital should be 2 November Record date for interim dividend taken into account.
In particular, the special dividend and 8 January 2008 Payment of interim dividend share consolidation in May 2005, the share consolidation 28 February 2008 End of financial year and B share issue effected in June 2006 and the share consolidation and C share issue in January 2007 should be considered in accordance with the information provided in page 33 Whitbread PLC Annual Review and Summary Report 2006 7 Shareholder services Whitbread PLC Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Porz Avenue Dunstable LU5 5XE www.
