Appendix to directors report risks and uncertainties Competition The leisure sector of the UK economy is highly competitive.
Whitbreads future financial performance would be at risk if it failed to compete strongly and lost market share to its competitors.
Whitbread has a sector-leading business in budget hotels.
It also has a fast growing chain of coffee stores.
The success of The financial results of Whitbreads these businesses is evidence of Whitbreads ability to perform well relative to its competitors.
In addition, David Lloyd Leisure, businesses and or its share price could while currently part way through a recovery plan, is nevertheless the leader in the health and racquet clubs sector and has be materially adversely affected recently been outperforming its competitors in that sector.
by a number of different risks and An important part of ensuring that Whitbread continues to compete effectively is the analysis that the Companys uncertainties.
This section highlights businesses carry out on their competitors.
Whitbread people what the Board believes some of the visit competitors sites on a regular basis to keep abreast of changes in the market.
main risks to be and explains how the All of Whitbreads businesses use the WINcard to monitor Company mitigates these risks.
Whitbread believes that by using the WINcard to get the fundamentals right it will reduce the risk of losing market share to its competitors.
Marketplace risks Operational risks Consumer trends Suppliers It is possible that changes in consumer trends may reduce the appeal of some of Whitbreads businesses if those trends are The quality and efficiency of Whitbreads supply chain is not properly anticipated and action is not taken to address key to the ongoing success of the Companys businesses.
potential issues at an early stage.
A breakdown in the supply chain would reduce the ability of the businesses to deliver the experience its customers expect.
Whitbread mitigates this risk in a number of ways.
First, each of the Companys businesses carries out market research and Two suppliers have been identified as being key suppliers, analyses consumer trends in the UK, the USA and in Europe.
the failure of which would be a potential risk to Whitbread.
Whitbread uses this research to anticipate future consumer The Company has mitigated this risk by developing an trends and to position itself to benefit from those trends.
understanding of those suppliers contingency and disaster recovery plans and by identifying alternative suppliers with In addition, the Company places great importance on listening the capacity to supply Whitbread if required.
to the views of its customers.
Premier Travel Inn, for example, obtains feedback from over 30,000 of its customers every Food safety food sourcing month and uses this feedback to ensure that it continues to The contamination of products served to the Companys offer the type and quality of services that its customers expect.
customers would put the Companys reputation and future The importance of the customer to Whitbread is demonstrated performance at risk.
by the fact that Guest Recommendation is one of the key elements of the Companys WINcard see page 6 of the Annual Whitbread has implemented a robust supplier audit Review for further details.
Whitbread believes that by listening programme.
The selection process for food suppliers includes to its customers it is significantly reducing the risks associated exacting food safety prequalification.
Whitbread maintains with changing consumer trends.
a multi-region sourcing strategy where appropriate.
For example, the sourcing of Whitbreads poultry is split between Consumer spending the UK, Brazil, Thailand and the Netherlands to mitigate the As more than 95% of Whitbreads turnover comes from the possible occurrence of avian flu in any one of those countries.
UK, the general health of the UK economy and its influence People on consumer spending is important to the Companys success.
A significant downturn in consumer spending The successful delivery of service to the Companys customers would be a risk to Whitbreads financial performance.
depends on Whitbread recruiting and retaining people of a high quality.
The failure to employ the right people would put Whitbread has over 1,400 outlets, which operate in different the Companys reputation at risk and could lead to the loss of sectors of the UK leisure industry.
These businesses appeal market share.
to different sectors of the UK population and are spread across the whole of the UK.
The differing types of business Whitbread is proud of its people.
The Company believes operated by Whitbread mitigate the risk of reduced consumer that by taking care of its people, its people will take care spending.
The largest contribution of profit to Whitbread of the customers and financial performance will follow.
is from its budget hotels business, Premier Travel Inn.
This Whitbread listens to the views of its employees, has a range sector has proven to be robust in times of lower economic of employment policies designed to make Whitbread a activity.
The geographical spread of Whitbreads businesses rewarding place to work and emphasises the importance helps to mitigate the risk of a regional downturn in it attaches to its people by including Team Turnover and consumer spending.
In addition, Whitbreads expansion into Health and Safety as two key measures on its WINcard.
emerging markets elsewhere in the world will further reduce Whitbreads exposure to the UK consumer.
page 3 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Appendix to directors report risks and uncertainties Appendix to directors report risks and uncertainties continued Whitbread carries out a rigorous selection process and External financial risks benchmarks the pay and benefits that it offers its employees Utility costs in order to recruit and retain the best people for the role.
Talent planning is carried out on an annual basis.
In common with any significant company in the leisure sector, Whitbreads businesses require a large amount of More information on Whitbreads people can be found on electricity, gas and water.
Recent years have seen large rises page 9 of the Annual Review.
in utility costs and future cost increases are a risk.
Health and safety Whitbread has mitigated these cost rises by the forward buying of resources to guard against future cost rises A major incident resulting from a health and safety failure and by reducing its requirement for these resources.
would be a significant reputational risk to Whitbread.
More information about the energy saving achievements In order to guard against such an eventuality, Whitbread so far and the plans for future savings can be found takes health and safety very seriously.
The central Safety on pages 8 and 9 of the Annual Review.
and Security team ensures a consistency of approach.
All strategic business units have comprehensive health Wage inflation and safety policies and risk assessments covering significant areas of risk.
In addition, health and safety is one of the key The minimum wage has increased faster than the rate measures on the WINcard.
More details about the Companys of general wage inflation over the last four years.
It approach to health and safety can be found on page 20 of currently stands at 5.35 per hour.
There is a risk that the the Annual Review.
minimum wage will continue to rise at a faster rate than the rate of inflation.
Expansion Whitbread has mitigated this continuing risk by reviewing A vital part of Whitbreads future development and success is its operating procedures and improving productivity through the continued expansion of its successful Costa and Premier the use of labour scheduling techniques.
Failure to expand these businesses at a fast enough rate could adversely affect the Companys future Pension funding performance.
Whitbread operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
Whitbread has announced ambitious plans to expand both At 1 March 2007, there was a gross pension fund deficit of Premier Travel Inn and Costa.
The Company has a target of 196 million.
There is a risk that this deficit could grow in 45,000 Premier Travel Inn rooms in the UK and over, 000 the event, for example, of poor investment performance or Costa stores worldwide by 20 0.
Dedicated development increasing mortality rates.
Recent legislation means that, teams and acquisition managers have been tasked with on occasions, it may be necessary to approach the Pensions meeting these targets and have succeeded in meeting the Regulator for pre-clearance of agreements reached with targets set for 2006 7. the Pension Trustee at the time of significant corporate transactions.
Such clearance may include a requirement to Restaurants increase the level of funding over a reduced timescale.
A significant part of Whitbreads turnover is derived from Whitbreads pension risks have been mitigated by the the Restaurants businesses.
The continued improvement closure of the defined benefit scheme to new entrants on in performance is an important factor in the Companys 31 December 2001.
As an alternative, a defined contribution future prospects.
pension scheme is available to eligible new employees.
In 2006 a new management team was put in place with the Whitbread also maintains a close dialogue with the pension intention of improving the key areas of pricing, food quality, schemes Trustee Board.
In order to reduce the funding environment and service.
The results in 2006 7 show that deficit in the scheme, the Company has made additional the changes that were made in 2006 are starting to have contributions of 00 million since September 2005 and a positive effect.
committed to further injections of 40 million over the next four years.
These contributions were agreed with the David Lloyd Leisure Trustee Board in advance of the Companys recent returns of cash to shareholders.
The leisure market in which David Lloyd Leisure operates is highly competitive and two competitors have recently been bought by privately funded firms.
The management at David Lloyd Leisure is focusing on a two-year turnaround programme, which is concentrating on a number of factors including improving the physical environment of the clubs and ensuring that appropriately talented people are managing the clubs.
page 4 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Appendix to directors report risks and uncertainties
