Notice of meeting This document is important and requires your immediate relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board attention.
If you have any doubts about what action you need to may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or take, you should contact your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
or accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
Resolution 10 If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of ordinary shares That the Directors be and hereby are empowered, pursuant to you should pass this Notice and accompanying documents section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to allot equity to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, securities as defined in section 94 of the Act for cash, at any time for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
when they are generally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: of Wolseley plc will be held at Haberdashers Hall, 10.1 to the allotment of equity securities in connection with, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ on Wednesday or pursuant to, a rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary 28 November 2007 at 12 noon.
shares in the Company where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are As a member of the Company, you are entitled, notwithstanding proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of any provision to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject only to such Company, to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights arrangements or exclusions as the Directors may feel necessary to attend and to speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements otherwise existing of the Company.
or legal or practical problems arising by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or otherwise under the laws Routine business of or any other requirements of any regulatory body or stock To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: exchange in any territory or any matter whatsoever: and Resolution 1 10.2 to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph 10.1 above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount That the Directors Annual Report and Accounts and the auditors report thereon for the year ended 31 July 2007 be received of 8,264,842 equal to 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital and adopted.
of the Company as at 24 September 2007 and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution and in any event no later than Resolution 2 That the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 15 months after the passing of this resolution.
31 July 2007 be received and adopted.
The power conferred by this resolution shall enable and allow the Directors to make an offer or an agreement before the expiry of the Resolution 3 To declare a final dividend of 21.55 pence per ordinary share.
power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in Resolutions 4, 5 and 6 pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
That Messrs Duff, Hornsby and Murray be re-elected as Directors of the Company.
Resolution 11 Resolution 7 That the Company be and hereby is generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Part VII of the Companies Act 1985 That the auditors  LLP be reappointed as the Companys auditors, until the conclusion of the next the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section Annual General Meeting of the Company.
163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company provided that: Resolution 8 11.1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised That the Directors be authorised to agree the remuneration of to be purchased is 66,118,736: the auditors.
11.2 the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 25 pence, exclusive of expenses: Non-routine business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions 11.3 the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share which will be proposed as to Resolutions 9, 12 and 13 as ordinary is, in respect of a share contracted to be purchased on any day, resolutions and as to Resolutions 10, 11, 14 and 15 as special an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average middle market resolutions.
quotations for the ordinary shares of the Company derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange on the five Resolution 9 business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary That the Directors be and hereby are generally and unconditionally share is purchased, exclusive of expenses: authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant 11.4 the power hereby granted shall expire at the conclusion of securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing 1985 the Act, up to a maximum nominal amount of 34,703,160, which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual of this resolution: and General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution 11.5 the Company may under the authority conferred by this and in any event no later than 15 months after the passing of this resolution and prior to the expiry of the authority make a contract resolution unless previously revoked or varied by the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares which will or may be executed in general meeting.
The power conferred by this resolution shall wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority and may make a enable and allow the Directors to make an offer or an agreement purchase of its own ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
before the expiry of the power which would or might require Notice of meeting 129 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notice of meeting Resolution 12 return TSR from 1 August 2002, together with the TSR for the That the Company and any company which is or becomes FTSE 100 index since that date.
its subsidiary during the period to which this resolution relates, be and is hereby authorised during the period commencing on the Resolution 3 date of this Annual General Meeting and ending on the date of the If Resolution 3 is approved by shareholders, the final dividend for Companys next Annual General Meeting to: the year ended 31 July 2007 will be paid on 30 November 2007 to shareholders whose names appear on the register of members 12.1 make political donations to political parties: at close of business on 5 October 2007.
12.2 make political donations to political organisations other than political parties: and or Resolutions 4, 5 and 6 Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of 12.3 incur political expenditure: the Directors are required to retire by rotation each year and, in addition, no Director may serve for more than three years in a total aggregate amount not exceeding 125,000. without being re-elected by shareholders.
Messrs Duff, Hornsby and Murray will retire by rotation this year in accordance with the For the purposes of this resolution, the terms political donation, Articles of Association and are proposed for re-election through political parties, political organisation and political expenditure separate resolutions numbered 4, 5 and 6.
Mr Duff is standing for have the meanings given by sections 363 to 365 of the Companies re-election as a Non Executive Director.
Mr Duff is the Chairman Act 2006. of the remuneration committee and a member of the nominations committee.
Mr Duff does not have a service contract with the Resolution 13 Company but his appointment is terminable on six months notice.
That pursuant to Regulation 111 of the Articles of Association of the Mr Hornsby is standing for re-election as an Executive Director.
Company, the total fees payable, in aggregate, to Non Executive Mr Hornsby has a service contract with the Company terminable Directors be and are hereby increased to 1,000,000 per annum.
by not less than six months notice given by him or 12 months notice if given by the Company.
Mr Murray is standing for re-election Resolution 14 as a Non Executive Director.
He is Chairman of the audit committee.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended Mr Murray does not have a service contract with the Company but by making the alterations marked on the print of the Articles of his appointment is terminable on six months notice.
Biographical Association produced to the Meeting marked A and initialled details of all the Directors standing for re-election appear on pages by the Chairman for the purposes of identification with effect from 42 and 43 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
the conclusion of the Meeting.
Resolutions 7 and 8 Resolution 15 Auditors have to be appointed at every general meeting at which That the Articles of Association of the Company shall be amended accounts are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment with effect from and including 1 October 2008 by making the of  LLP as the Companys auditors will alterations marked on the print of the Articles of Association end at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and it has produced to the Meeting marked B and initialled by the Chairman advised its willingness to stand for reappointment.
It is normal for the purposes of identification.
practice for a companys directors to be authorised to agree how much the auditors should be paid.
Resolutions 9 and 10 The Companies Act 1985 prevents Directors from allotting unissued shares without the authority of shareholders in general meeting.
By order of the Board The Companys Articles of Association permit the Directors to allot Charles P Watters unissued shares but this power is subject to renewal by shareholders.
Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Interim Resolution 9 empowers the Directors to allot shares of up to 5 October 2007 34,703,160 in nominal amount representing the authorised but unissued ordinary share capital as at 24 September 2007, being a Wolseley plc date not more than one month prior to this Notice.
29846, England were last given this authority at the Annual General Meeting held in Parkview 1220 2006 and it is intended that renewal of this authority will be sought Arlington Business Park on an annual basis.
Resolution 10 empowers the Directors to allot Theale, Reading RG7 4GA shares for cash or sell transfer shares out of treasury otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders but this power is limited to allotments in connection with a rights issue and otherwise up to an Explanatory notes aggregate nominal amount of 8,264,842 approximately 5 per cent Resolution 1 of the issued ordinary share capital as at 24 September 2007, The Directors are required to present to the Meeting the audited being a date not more than one month prior to this Notice.
accounts and the Directors and auditors report for the financial Save for the issue of shares pursuant to the Companys various year ended 31 July 2007. employee share schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the Directors do not presently intend to allot any unissued shares.
Resolution 2 Treasury shares and the regulations which came into force on The Directors report on remuneration includes the Companys 1 December 2003 in relation to them, are more fully explained in the policy on Directors remuneration for the next financial year and note to Resolution 11.
The authority conferred by these resolutions for the years subsequent to that, a table containing details of the will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the Directors emoluments and a line graph that shows total shareholder resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of the Annual General 130 Notice of meeting Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Meeting to be held in 2008, whichever is the sooner.
Similar resolutions London EC4Y 1HS until 28 November 2007 or upon request have been approved by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting from the Company Secretary.
Copies will also be available at the since 1984.
Annual General Meeting from 11.15am until its conclusion.
The material differences between the current and the proposed Articles Resolution 11 are summarised below.
Changes of a minor, conforming or purely This resolution empowers the Directors to make limited on-market technical nature have not been mentioned specifically.
purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited to a maximum of 66,118,736 shares 10 per cent of the issued Resolution 14 share capital as at 24 September 2007 and details the minimum Provisions relating to electronic communications and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of expenses.
Currently, shareholders may elect for communications to be sent The authority conferred by this resolution will expire at the to them via email rather than receiving documents in hard copy conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
The 2006 Act contains new provisions relating to electronic The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares communications between companies and their shareholders Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003.
These which will enable companies to use electronic communications regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held with shareholders as the default position by placing documents as treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash on a website unless shareholders specifically elect to receive hard or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
Shareholders may also elect to communicate with the to be sought by this resolution is intended to apply equally to shares Company by electronic means where the Company has given an to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will electronic address in a Notice calling a meeting or in an instrument be paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting of proxy.
The Company proposes to amend its Articles to take rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares advantage of these provisions.
will be treated as if cancelled.
The Company holds no shares in treasury but the Directors currently intend that any shares which In any event, before implementing the default provisions as detailed are repurchased will be held in treasury.
above, the Company would write to all shareholders to give them the opportunity to exercise their choice as to whether they wish Resolution 12 to continue to receive documents in hard copy form or via the This resolution enables the Directors to incur expenditure of up to Companys website.
a total of 125,000 in respect of the heads identified including any such expenditure by a subsidiary company without unintentionally Resolution 15 breaching the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, which defines Provisions relating to conflicts of interest political organisations and political donations in a broad manner.
The 2006 Act sets out Directors general duties, which largely codify The authority sought will, if granted, last until the conclusion of the the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Company when the Directors 1 October 2008 a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or intend to seek renewal of this authority.
The policy of not giving can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may any cash contributions to any political party will continue.
conflict, with the Companys interests.
This requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a Director Resolution 13 of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
Currently, The Articles of Association prescribe that the total amount of Directors discuss such proposed positions with the Company before fees which may be paid to the Non Executive Directors shall not taking them up and there are actions Directors can take to avoid exceed 750,000 per annum, unless the Companys shareholders a breach of their duties if an actual conflict arises.
In view of the increasing time commitment allows Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and involved and in line with market trends, the Board believes it is potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the Articles of appropriate to recommend an increase in the limit to 1,000,000 Association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also per annum in order to provide flexibility for the future.
allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of Amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company duty.
This change to the Articles of Association, to take effect from The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act received Royal Assent 1 October 2008, would give the Directors authority to approve in November 2006.
The 2006 Act represents a major reform of UK such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts companies legislation and is being brought into force on a staged of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
basis between January 2007 and October 2008.
It is proposed that, at this years Annual General Meeting, the Company amends There are safeguards which will apply when the Directors decide its Articles of Association the Articles to reflect certain changes whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only in the law governing electronic communications and Directors Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will conflicts of interest which have or will come into force as a result be able to take the relevant decision and secondly, in taking the of the 2006 Act see notes to Resolutions 13 and 14 below.
decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The However, over the coming year, the Company in conjunction with Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving its legal advisers intends to conduct a further review of the Articles, authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
incorporating any further changes which are necessary or desirable following the full implementation of the 2006 Act.
Any proposed The Directors consider that each of the resolutions is in the best amendments will be put to shareholders at the 2008 Annual interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and, General Meeting.
Copies of the current and proposed Articles accordingly, recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of and comparison documents showing all the proposed changes all resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their to the Articles are available for inspection during normal business own shares.
hours at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of its solicitors, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street, Notice of meeting 131 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Notice of meeting The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an Electronic communications electronic message.
It cannot be held responsible for a failure in The Company is currently authorised to send shareholder transmission beyond its control.
In the event that the Company information, including Annual Reports, Notices of General Meetings becomes aware that an electronic transmission is not successfully and Forms of Proxy to you electronically, provided only that you transmitted, a paper notification will be sent to the shareholder agree to receive them in this format.
The Company also reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to revert to sending paper documentation This has a number of advantages, including: by post, whenever the Board considers it necessary or desirable to do so.
Speedier delivery of documents: Cost savings on the delivery of documents: Enquiries Saving on environmental resources: Equiniti formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the Companys Confirmation of receipt of proxy appointments.
They also provide a telephone helpline service.
If you have any enquiries about the Annual General Meeting or To receive your shareholder documentation electronically, about your Wolseley plc shareholding, you may contact Equiniti: you need to register with our Registrars online service, www.
This is a secure service enabling shareholders by telephone to the Shareholder helpline: to set up and view personal shareholding details.
When you register from the UK 0870 241 3934 please have your shareholder reference number to hand this can from outside the UK 44 121 415 7047 be found on your share certificate or your proxy form.
in writing to Equiniti 0049 To encourage more shareholders to convert to ecommunications, Aspect House if you make the choice to receive all future communications Spencer Road electronically, we will arrange for a sapling tree to be planted Lancing in the UK to be dedicated to you.
West Sussex BN99 6BN This offer and the provision of a facility to communicate with shareholders electronically, does not discriminate between registered website www.
com shareholders of the same class.
The facility is available to all registered shareholders on equal terms and participation is made The Bank of New York Mellon maintains the Companys American as simple as possible.
Please note that it is the shareholders Depositary Receipt register.
They also provide a telephone helpline responsibility to notify our Registrars through www.
If you have any enquiries about your holding of Wolseley of any change to their email address.
American Depositary Shares, you may contact the Bank of New York Mellon: In the future, subject to the approval of the amendments to the Articles of Association pursuant to Resolution 14, the Company will by telephone to the Shareholder helpline: be able to communicate with shareholders who have consented, within the US 1-888-BNY-ADRS toll-free or who have deemed to have consented, to receive documents from outside the US 1 212 815 3700 electronically, by placing shareholder documentation on a website and notifying them in writing that such documents are available.
in writing to Bank of New York Mellon The Company would, however, write to all shareholders before Investor Relations doing so to give you an opportunity to exercise your choice as to PO Box 11258 Church Street Station whether you wish to continue to receive documents in hard copy New York, NY 10286-1258 form or via the Companys website.
com The next opportunity for us to notify you electronically will be for the Interim Report for 2008, which will be published in Spring 2008.
Data protection statement If you have registered, an email will be sent in March April 2008 Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on notifying you that the report has been published and this will your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including include a link to the relevant page on our website.
A similar your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your procedure will be followed for future shareholder documentation.
Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The There are no particular software requirements to view these Company determines the purposes for which and the manner documents, other than those described and available on our in which your personal data is to be processed.
and any third party to which it discloses the data including the Companys Registrars may process your personal data for the Before electing for electronic communication, shareholders should purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, ensure that they have the appropriate computer capabilities.
The fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no viruses are rights you exercise.
present in any communication it sends out, but cannot accept any responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use Published information of any email or attachments from the Company and recommends The Notice of Annual General Meeting is also available in Braille that shareholders subject all messages to virus checking procedures or in an audio version on CD, depending on your requirements.
Please note that any electronic communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or the Registrar containing a computer virus will not be accepted.
132 Notice of meeting Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WO40009 Cover 07 12 10 07 11:03 Page 2 Wolseley the name the world builds on The worlds number one distributor of heating and plumbing products to the professional market and a leading supplier of building materials.
We are committed to achieving long-term growth in the business while improving margins and generating significant shareholder value creating a truly world class company.
Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts may be forward-looking and may and often do involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations including, without limitation, discussions of the Companys business and financial plans, expected future revenues and expenditures, investments and disposals, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the plumbing and heating and building materials market in North America and Europe, fluctuations in product prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
All forward-looking statements in this respect are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this report.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
It is not reasonably possible to itemise all of the many factors and events that could cause the Companys forward-looking statements to be incorrect or that could otherwise have a material adverse effect on the future operations or results of the Company.
Designed and produced by 35 London Location photography by Andy Wilson Board photography by Philip Gatward Printed by St Ives Westerham Press This report is printed on Revive 50:50 paper and cover board, with Revive Uncoated used in the financial section.
Revive 50:50 is made from 50 per cent recovered waste fibre and 50 per cent virgin wood fibre from sustainable forests.
Revive Uncoated is made from 80 per cent fide-inked post-consumer waste and 20 per cent virgin wood fibre from sustainable forests.
Both products are fully biodegradable and recyclable and produced in mills which hold ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
The CO emissions from the production and distribution of this Annual 2 Report and Accounts have been neutralised through UK forestry in Mynydd-y-Garnedd, Wales.
