Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2007 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in In the event that an overseas subsidiary undertaking is sold, the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income statement IFRS as adopted by the European Union, including interpretations is determined after taking into account the cumulative currency issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB translation differences that are attributable to the subsidiary and its committees and with those parts of the Companies Act undertaking concerned.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The date of to deem the cumulative currency translation differences of the transition to IFRS was 1 August 2004.
Group to be nil as at 1 August 2004.
As a result the gain or loss on disposal of an overseas subsidiary undertaking will not include A summary of the principal accounting policies applied by the currency translation differences arising before 1 August 2004.
Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is set out below.
Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates Basis of accounting of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under at the balance sheet date.
All currency translation differences are the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of taken to the income statement with the exception of differences available for sale investments and financial assets and liabilities on foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to held for trading.
finance or provide a hedge against foreign currency net assets as detailed above.
Consolidation Revenue The consolidated financial information includes the results of the parent Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to Revenue is the amount receivable for the provision of goods and 31 July 2007. services falling within the Groups ordinary activities, excluding intra-group sales, estimated and actual sales returns, trade and The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued early settlement discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
during the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from the date of acquisition or up to the date of sale or discontinuance.
Revenue from the provision of goods is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been transferred to Intra-group transactions and balances and any unrealised gains the customer.
The risks and rewards of ownership of goods are and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated deemed to have been transferred when the goods are shipped to, on consolidation.
or are picked up by, the customer.
Foreign currencies Revenue from services, other than those that arise from construction service contracts see below, are recognised Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups when the service provided to the customer has been completed.
subsidiary undertakings are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary undertaking Revenue in respect of construction service contracts, where the operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial Group is providing framing lumber installation services to residential statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentational property companies, is recognised using the percentage of currency of the Group and the functional currency of the parent completion method, with the percentage complete being determined company.
by comparing the percentage of costs incurred to date with the estimated total costs of the contract.
Losses on these contracts, The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are if any, are recognised in the period when such losses become translated into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling probable and can be reasonably estimated.
during the relevant financial period.
Revenue from the provision of goods and all services is only The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed or translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the period determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
Exchange differences arising between the translation into sterling of the net assets of these subsidiary undertakings at rates Cost of sales ruling at the beginning and end of the year are recognised in the currency translation reserve as are exchange differences on foreign Cost of sales includes purchased goods, the cost of bringing currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to finance or inventory to its present location and condition, and labour and provide a hedge against foreign currency net assets.
overheads attributable to assembly and construction services.
Changes in the fair value and the final settlement value of derivative financial instruments, entered into to hedge foreign currency net assets and that satisfy the hedging conditions of IAS 39, are recognised in the currency translation reserve see the separate accounting policy on derivative financial instruments.
Group accounting policies 73 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2007 Intangible assets, primarily brands, trade names and customer Vendor rebates relationships, acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less The Group enters into arrangements with certain vendors providing accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
These purchase rebates are accrued Amortisation is calculated using the reducing balance method as earned and are recorded initially as a reduction in inventory with for customer relationships and the straight-line method for other a subsequent reduction in cost of sales when the related product intangible assets.
The cost of the intangible assets is amortised is sold.
over their estimated useful lives as follows: Business combinations Customer relationships 4-25 years Trade names and brands 1-15 years The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting Other 1-4 years for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and Business Combinations to acquisitions of subsidiaries that were is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated recognised before 1 August 2004 and as a result the carrying impairment losses.
Costs include software licences, consulting amount of goodwill recognised as an asset under UK GAAP was costs attributable to the development, design and implementation brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable under IFRS as at 1 August 2004.
IFRS 3 has been applied with to the development, design and implementation of the computer effect from 1 August 2004 and goodwill amortisation ceased software.
Costs in respect of training and data conversion are from that date.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the software to the income statement over its estimated useful life assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or three to five years.
assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and Property, plant and equipment PPE contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, PPE is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
accumulated impairment losses, except for land and assets in the course of construction, which are not depreciated and are carried The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value items.
In addition, subsequent costs are included in the assets of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can Intangible assets be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in Goodwill which they are incurred.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method of the acquired subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition.
to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings is included estimated useful life, as follows: in intangible assets.
Freehold buildings and long leaseholds 35-50 years Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment Short leaseholds over the period and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains of the lease and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount Plant and machinery 7-10 years of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Fixtures and fittings 5-7 years Computers 3-5 years Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of Motor vehicles 4 years impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill The residual values and useful lives of PPE are reviewed and is monitored for management purposes and are not larger than the adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
primary or secondary reporting segments determined in accordance with IAS 14 Segmental Reporting.
Borrowing costs attributable to assets under construction are charged to the income statement in the period in which they Other intangible assets are incurred.
An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance, is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the expected future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost can be measured reliably.
The asset is deemed to be identifiable when it is separable or when it arises from contractual or other legal rights.
74 Group accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Leased assets Taxation Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where Current tax represents the expected tax payable or recoverable substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or have transferred to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful account any adjustments arising from prior years.
The asset is recorded at the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on the lease.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and leases are included in liabilities in the balance sheet and analysed liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial between current and non-current amounts.
Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial of future obligations under finance leases are charged to the recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a income statement over the periods of the leases and represent a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
The cost and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is of operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable the periods of the leases.
profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Assets held for sale Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business.
of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is For this to be the case, the asset must be available for immediate probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the sale in its present condition, management must be committed foreseeable future.
to and have initiated a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
Derivative financial instruments Assets that are classified as held for sale are not depreciated and are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value Derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate swaps less costs to sell.
and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities of the Group and the financing of those Impairment of assets activities.
There is no trading activity in derivative financial instruments.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and of derivative financial instruments, the Group documents the whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject together with its risk management objective and the strategy to amortisation and assets under construction are tested for underlying the proposed transaction.
The Group also documents impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging relationship that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values or cash flows of amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount the hedged items.
is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the criteria for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39, changes in their fair values Inventories are recognised in the income statement.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method or the average cost method as appropriate to the nature of the transactions in those items of inventory.
The cost of goods purchased for resale includes import and custom duties, transport and handling costs, freight and packing costs and other attributable costs less trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Group accounting policies 75 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2007 When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships Cash and cash equivalents are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging relationship is classified Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with or liability is adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss is Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the on the balance sheet to the extent that there is no right of offset hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of and no practice of net settlement with cash balances.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent Share capital the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly in The Company has only one class of shares, ordinary shares, which equity rather than in the income statement.
When the hedged item are classified as equity.
is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity are either recycled to the income Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares statement or, if the hedged item results in a non-financial asset, or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, are recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted from post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares as incurred.
are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of For defined benefit pension schemes and other retirement benefits, any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related the cost is calculated annually using the projected unit credit tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys method and is recognised over the average expected remaining equity holders.
service lives of participating employees, in accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
The current Borrowings service cost of defined benefit schemes is recorded within operating profit.
The total expected return from pension scheme Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the assets less the total interest on pension scheme liabilities is consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.
recorded within finance revenue if a gain and finance costs if an expense.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any recorded within operating profit and recognised on a straight-line difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the basis over the vesting period, or immediately if the benefits have redemption value being recognised in the income statement over vested.
Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
between the expected and actual returns on the scheme assets and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has in full in the statement of recognised income and expense in the an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least period in which they occur.
The defined benefit liability or asset 12 months after the balance sheet date.
recognised in the balance sheet comprises the net total for each scheme of the present value of the benefit obligation at the balance Investments sheet date, less any past service costs not yet recognised, less the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet date.
The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: Where a scheme is in surplus, the asset recognised is limited to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and the amount of any unrecognised past service costs and the present receivables: held-to-maturity investments: and available-for-sale value of any amount which the Group expects to recover by way financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates Trade receivables this designation at every reporting date.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
76 Group accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Provisions This category comprises financial assets held for trading which have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs and short term.
Derivatives also fall within this category unless they are legal claims are recognised when the Group has a present legal designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely purposes.
Assets in this category are classified as current.
than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Such provisions b Loans and receivables are measured at the present value of managements best estimate Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market the balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the and with no intention of trading.
They are included in current present value reflects current market assessments of the time value assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the of money.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables Provisions for insurance represent an estimate, based on historical in the balance sheet.
experience, of the ultimate cost of settling outstanding claims and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
c Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets Share-based payments with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups to maturity.
They are included in non-current assets unless the executive share option, long-term incentive and share purchase investment is due to mature within 12 months of the balance schemes.
The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect sheet date.
of these schemes that is based on the fair value of the awards, measured using Black-Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation d Available-for-sale financial assets methodologies.
For equity-settled schemes, the fair value is Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured that are either designated in this category or not classified in any unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified.
They are included in non-current assets For cash-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date unless management intends to dispose of the investment within of grant and is remeasured at each balance sheet date until the 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or period due to the failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market loss.
Investments are derecognised when the rights to receive cash performance conditions.
flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group applied IFRS 2 Share-based of ownership.
Payment retrospectively only to equity-settled awards that had not vested as at 1 August 2004 and were granted on or after Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value 7 November 2002 and cash-settled awards that had not vested through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans as at 1 August 2004. and receivables and held-to-maturity investments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Dividends payable Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the Financial assets at fair value through profit or Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Groups financial loss category are included in the income statement in the period in statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes the shareholders of the company generally in the case of the final in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as availabledividend or paid in the case of interim dividends.
for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
Group accounting policies 77 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
