The Company mandates dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS payment method is that the Registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholders bank or building society account.
Shareholders who have not yet arranged for dividends to be paid direct to their bank or building society account and wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys Registrar address below to send them a Dividend Interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to any future dividend tax voucher.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan, you need take no further action.
Contents 1 Financial and Operational Highlights Retail 2 Chairmans Statement Shareholder Information on the Internet The Company maintains an investor relations zone on its website www.
com which allows access to share price information, Directors Report Woolworths management biographies, copies of Company reports and other useful investor information.
Business Review The Mainchain stores comprise traditional Woolworths outlets located in small towns 4 Our Resources and city suburbs, targeted at meeting basic everyday shopping requirements, as well In addition, Computershare Investor Services PLC, the Company Registrar, has introduced a facility where shareholders are able to access details 8 Chief Executives Report as larger stores located on prime shopping streets in major regional shopping centres.
of their shareholding in the Company over the internet subject to complying with an identity check.
This service can be accessed on their website, 14 Finance Directors Report The product offer covers Toys, Childrens Clothing, Events, Confectionery, Home and www.
18 Risk Factors Entertainment: larger stores include a more comprehensive range of Home and 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Childrens Clothing.
20 Board of Directors Woolworths Group plc is a company incorporated, domiciled and registered in England and Wales Number 03855289.
21 Corporate Governance Woolworths out-of-town stores offer a wider selection of Toys, a babyshop, kids 25 Other Information bedroom ranges and Entertainment products, all from a superstore format designed Registrar to meet demand for out-of-town shopping.
Computershare 27 Directors Remuneration Report Investor Services PLC 36 Statement of Directors Responsibilities PO Box 82 37 Independent Auditors Report The Pavilions the Group www.
co. uk Bridgwater Road 38 Group Income Statement Group Statement of Recognised Bristol BS99 7NH Income and Expense Tel: 0870 889 3108 39 Group Balance Sheet www.
com 40 Group Cash Flow Statement 41 Notes to the Group Accounts Registered and Head Office 72 Five Year Record Unaudited Woolworth House 73 Independent Auditors Report Entertainment 242246 Marylebone Road the Company London NW1 6JL 74 Company Balance Sheet 75 Notes to the Company Accounts Tel: 020 7262 1222 Wholesale and Publishing 80 Shareholder Information Unaudited www.
com 2 | Entertain Auditors The Group holds a 40 per cent share in this joint venture, combining the former VCI  LLP audio and video business with BBC Worldwides video publishing arm.
Recent video Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors titles include Planet Earth and Jeremy Clarkson The Good, the Bad and the Ugly 1 Embankment Place and on audio, Ian Dury: Reasons to be Cheerful.
co. uk Joint Brokers Entertainment UK Limited EUK UBS EUK is the UKs leading distributor of entertainment products, generating an annual 1 Finsbury Avenue turnover in excess of 1.1 billion.
London EC2M 2PP EUKs product portfolio covers all of the major entertainment formats music, DVD, games and books as well as mobile phones.
In turn, these products are JP Morgan Cazenove supplied to some of the countrys best known store groups and online retailers.
co. uk London EC2R 6DA Bertram Group Limited Joint Financial Advisors Bertram Group consists of the following three divisions: UBS Bertram Books, the UKs leading book wholesaler with a growing number 1 Finsbury Avenue of international customers.
London EC2M 2PP Bertram Publisher Services provides distribution sevices to a wide range of client publishers.
Bertram Library Services an industry leading supplier of books, tapes, Credit Suisse First Boston CDs, games and many other audio-visual products to public libraries, schools, One Cabot Square universities and educational institutions in the UK and around the world.
com Solicitors Total Home Entertainment THE Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer THE is one of the UKs largest combined wholesalers and distributors of books, 65 Fleet Street audio, video, multimedia and computer games.
Since launching in 1972, THE London EC4Y 1HS has fast established itself as one of the most respected and effective players in entertainment distribution.
TOTAL HOME ENTERTAINMENT 2 Entertain THE | Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Shareholder Information 81
