Our 2007 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP Go Good odw wiillll and and o ot th he er r i in ntangi tangib ble le asse assets ts Group plc the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 have been prepared Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired in accordance with International Financial separable corporate brand names, customer relationships Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted and capitalised computer software not integral to a related by the European Union as they apply to item of hardware.
the financial statements of the Group for the year ended Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed 31 December 2007. to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings The Groups financial statements are also consistent over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
Acquisitions by the International Accounting Standards Board.
complement and give rise to synergies with our existing portfolio of businesses, and bring skilled staff to deliver B Ba as siis of p s of pr re ep pa ar rat atiio on n services to our clients.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS 1 January 2004 has The financial statements have been prepared under the been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill written off to certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been policies are set out below.
reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent pro t or loss on disposal.
B Ba as siis of c s of co on ns so olliid da at tiio on n The Group has taken the option as permitted by IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of IFRS to apply IAS 21 The Effects The consolidated financial statements include the results of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates retrospectively to of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made fair value adjustments and goodwill arising in all business up to the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, combinations that occurred before the date of transition transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full to IFRS.
The results of subsidiary undertakings Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually acquired or disposed of during the period are included or or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances excluded from the income statement from the effective date indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of of acquisition or disposal.
goodwill is compared to the net present value of future cash ows derived from the underlying assets using a projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After the projection period a steady or declining growth rate representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
153 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements Our 2007 financial statements Accounting policies Corporate brand names acquired as part of acquisitions Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the Group of businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill as applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing the carrying intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably on amount of the assets.
This process includes comparing its initial recognition and it is probable that the expected future recoverable amount with its carrying value.
Depreciation is economic bene ts that are attributable to the asset will ow provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated to the Group.
residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to estimated useful life, as follows: have an inde nite economic life because of the institutional Freehold buildings 50 years nature of the corporate brand names, their proven ability Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease to maintain market leadership and pro table operations or life of the asset, if shorter over long periods of time and the Groups commitment to Fixtures, ttings and equipment 3-10 years develop and enhance their value.
The carrying value of these Computer equipment 3-5 years intangible assets is reviewed at least annually for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable amount if required.
Int Inte er re ests sts in in a as ssociat sociates es a an nd d joint joint v five ent ntur ures es Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a The Groups share of the pro ts less losses of associate straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: undertakings net of tax, interest and minority interest is Acquired intangibles included in the consolidated income statement and the Brand names 10-20 years Groups share of net assets is shown within interests in Customer related intangibles 3-10 years associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups Other proprietary tools 3-10 years share of the pro ts less losses and net assets is based on Other including capitalised computer software 3-5 years current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
Continge Contingent nt conside consider ration ation The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, the contingent consideration earnouts are based on the directors Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing the best estimates of future obligations, which are dependent on carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes the future performance of the interests acquired and assume comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
the operating companies improve pro ts in line with The Group accounts for joint venture investments under directors estimates.
When earnouts are to be settled by cash the equity method which is consistent with the Groups consideration, the fair value of the consideration is obtained treatment of associates.
by discounting to present value the amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The resulting interest charge is included Ot Oth he er r i in nv five es st tm me en nt ts s within finance costs.
Other investments are designated as available for sale and P Pr ro op per ert ty y, p pllan ant t an and d eq equ uiipm pmen ent t are shown at fair value with any movements in fair value taken to equity.
Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less On disposal of the security the cumulative gain or loss accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment previously recognised in equity is included in the pro t or with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
Impairment losses recognised in pro t or The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant loss for equity investments classi ed as available for sale and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
are not subsequently reversed through pro t or loss.
154 Our 2007 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements Accounting policies I In nv five ent nto or ry a y an nd w d wo or rk k i in n p pr ro og gr re es ss s Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in pro t or loss of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net The effective portion of changes in the fair value of realisable value.
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow or net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain or loss Tr Tra ad fide e r re ec ce eiiv va ab blle es s relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in pro t or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and pro t or loss in the periods when the hedged item is doubtful debts.
recognised in pro t or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a F Fo or re eiig gn c n cu ur rr re en nc cy y a an nd i d in nte ter re es st t r ra ate h te he ed dg giin ng g nonfinancial asset or a nonfinancial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from The Groups policy on Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost Rate Management sets out the instruments and methods of the asset or liability.
available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or The Group uses derivative financial instruments to no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
At that time, any reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction financial instruments for speculative purposes.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently is transferred to net pro t or loss for the period.
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or The resulting gain or loss is recognised in pro t or loss other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair recognition in pro t or loss depends on the nature of the value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income hedge relationship.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument Lia Liabilities bilities in in r re espe spec ct t o of f op option tion agr agre ee em me en nts ts and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners to Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an require the Group to purchase a minority interest are treated ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly balance sheet at fair value and the valuation is remeasured at effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows each period end.
Fair value is based on the present value of of the hedged item.
expected cash out ows and the movement in the fair value is recognised as income or expense within finance costs in the income statement.
155 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements Our 2007 financial statements Accounting policies Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, Derec Dereco ogn gniit tiio on n o of f na nancia nciall lia liab bilities ilities in accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
In accordance with IAS 39, a financial liability of the Group Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both quantitative is only released to the income statement when the underlying and qualitative elements: on the element related to quantitative legal obligation is extinguished.
targets, revenue is recognised when the quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element related to qualitative Con Conv five er rtible tible debt debt targets, revenue is recognised when the incentive is received or receivable.
Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements and is classi ed into liability Information, Insight & Consultancy and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value of the liability element.
The difference between this gure Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service and the cash received is classi ed as equity.
performed for market research contracts is based on The income statement charge for the finance cost will proportional performance.
In assessing contract performance, be spread evenly over the term of the convertible debt so both input and output criteria are reviewed.
Costs incurred that at redemption the liability equals the redemption value.
are used as an objective input measure of performance.
The primary input of all work performed under these Ba Bank nk bor borr ro ow wings ings arrangements is labour.
As a result of the relationship between labour and cost, there is normally a direct relationship Other interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are between costs incurred and the proportion of the contract recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Costs incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used as an initial proportional performance Bor Borr ro ow wing ing costs costs measure.
This indicative proportional performance measure is subsequently validated against other more subjective criteria Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the income i. e. relevant output measures such as the percentage of statement over the term of those borrowings.
interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered to a client and the achievement of any project milestones stipulated Re Rev five enue nue r re ecog cogn nition ition in the contract.
In the event of divergence between the objective and more subjective measures, the more subjective Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect measures take precedence since these are output measures.
Direct costs include fees paid to external While most of the studies provided in connection with the suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of Groups market research contracts are undertaken in response a speci c project for a client and the resulting expenditure is to an individual clients or group of clients speci cations, in directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated certain instances a study may be developed as an off-the-shelf exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
product offering sold to a broad client base.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when the product is Advertising and Media Investment Management delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide for licensing the product on a subscription basis, revenue is recognised over Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media the subscription period on a straight-line basis or, if applicable, placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may based on usage.
consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, as agreed upon with each client.
156 Our 2007 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements Accounting policies Substantially all services are provided on a xed price and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or other where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a assets and liabilities other than in a business combination project are signi cantly above the labour hours quoted in a transaction that affects neither the tax pro t nor the in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, accounting pro t. the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable on which to measure proportional performance when the temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries actual threshold is reached provided that collectibility is and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where reasonably assured.
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding & will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services longer probable that suf cient taxable pro ts will be available to be performed subject to speci c agreement.
Revenue is to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
recognised when the service is performed, in accordance Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively enacted be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the legislation.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income income statement revenue and related costs as contract statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited activity progresses.
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Ta Tax xa at ti io on n Retirement Retirement bene bene t t c co os st ts s Corporate taxes are payable on taxable pro ts at current rates.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently For fide ned contribution schemes, contributions are payable and deferred tax.
charged to the income statement as payable in respect The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t for of the accounting period.
Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as reported in For fide ned bene t schemes the amounts charged to the income statement because it excludes items of income or operating pro t are the current service costs and gains and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Past service costs are recognised The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax immediately in the income statement if the bene ts have rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the vested.
If the bene ts have not vested, the costs are balance sheet date.
recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or cost and the expected return on assets are shown within recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts finance costs and finance income respectively.
Actuarial of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable of Recognised Income and Expense.
pro t, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Where fide ned bene t schemes are funded, the assets of method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in temporary differences unless speci cally excepted by IAS 12. separate trustee-administered funds.
Pension scheme assets Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on probable that taxable pro ts will be available against which an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return 157 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements Our 2007 financial statements Accounting policies on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings to obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such sheet date.
operations are reported in the Statement of Recognised Recognition of a surplus in the fide ned bene t schemes is Income and Expense.
limited based on the economic gain the company is expected Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the to bene t from in the future by means of a refund or acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and reduction in future contributions to the plan, in accordance liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
S Sh ha ar re e- -ba based sed pa payments yments Fi Fin na an nc ce l e le ea as se es s The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets including share options to certain employees and accounts of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Equity-settled share-based payments are payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged measured at fair value excluding the effect of non marketto the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The Group has Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and used a Black-Scholes valuation model for this purpose.
interest elements and the interest is charged to the income The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised statement as it is incurred.
in the income statement as an expense on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on the Groups O Op pe er rating ating lea leas ses es estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement IFRS 2 Share-based payments applies to all share-based on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or payments granted since 7 November 2002, but the Group discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of has elected for full retrospective restatement as this better the lease on a straight-line basis.
represents the ongoing charge to the income statement.
T Tr ra an ns sllat atiio on of fo n of for re eiig gn c n cu ur rr re en nc ciie es s Ne New w I IF FRS RS ac acc co oun unfit tiin ng g pron pronoun ounc cem emen ents ts Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the yearthe related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses are Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the credited or charged to the income statement as they arise.
changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided The income statements of overseas subsidiary in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at average instruments and capital management.
exchange rates and the year-end net assets of these companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
158 Our 2007 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements Accounting policies At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, The revisions to the standards apply prospectively to the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but after the first annual financial reporting period beginning on not yet effective: or after 1 January 2009.
Consequently, the impact that these IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions: revised standards will have on the financial statements of the IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: Group will depend on the circumstances of business IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty: combinations occurring on or after 1 January 2010.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction: Cr Critica iticall judgements judgements in in a ap pplying plying accounting accounting policies policies IFRS 8 Operating Segments: IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements: and Management is required to make key decisions and IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs.
judgements in the process of applying the Groups accounting The Group does not consider that these Standards and policies.
The most signi cant areas where such judgements Interpretations will have a signi cant impact on the financial have been necessary are revenue recognition, goodwill, statements of the Group except for additional disclosures acquisition reserves, taxation and accounting for pension when the relevant standards come into effect for periods liabilities.
Where judgement has been applied, the key factors commencing on or after 1 January 2008. taken into consideration are disclosed in the appropriate note In addition, IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations in these financial statements.
and IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements become effective for the Group in the year ended 31 December 2010.
The revisions to these standards will apply to business combinations completed after 1 January 2010.
The main changes under the revised standards are: all acquisition-related costs must be recognised as an expense in the period: contingent consideration payable is to be measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Any subsequent movements in the fair value of such consideration as a result of postacquisition events such as changes in estimates of earnout consideration must be recognised as a gain or loss in the income statement: equity interests held prior to control being obtained must be re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date, with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement: increases in ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a change of control are treated as transactions among equity holders and are reported within equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on such transactions and goodwill is not re-measured.
159 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements
