Accounting Policies For the year ended 31 December 2007 The following standards and interpretations are in issue but are The financial statements have been prepared in accordance not relevant to the Group or Companys financial statements: with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act, 1985 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, Amendment, effective 1 January applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
2009 IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions, The principal accounting policies adopted in the presentation of these consolidated and Company financial statements, which effective 1 March 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, effective 1 January have been consistently applied, are set out below: 2008 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective 1 July 2008 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Basis of consolidation the historical cost basis, except for financial assets available for sale and pension assets and liabilities, all of which have been The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of WSP Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December measured at fair value.
each year prepared in accordance with IFRS using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or Adoption of new and revised International Financial indirectly controlled by the Group.
The purchase method of Reporting Standards accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries The Group adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at fair during the year which introduces new disclosures relating to value of the consideration given, equity instruments issued and financial instruments.
The standard does not have any impact liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus on the classification and valuation of the Groups financial costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets instruments, or the disclosures relating to taxation and trade acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a and other payables.
business combination are measured initially at their fair values At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the at the acquisition date.
The excess of cost of acquisition over following standards and interpretations were in issue but not the fair value of assets acquired is recorded as goodwill and yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group tested for impairment during the period of acquisition and or Company: subsequent periods.
If the cost of acquisition is less than fair value of assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in IFRS 8 Segmental Reporting, effective 1 January 2009.
standard replaces IAS 14 and requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as Results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed in the period are used for internal reporting purposes.
The expected consolidated from or to the date on which control passes.
If impact is being assessed in detail however subsidiaries had adopted accounting policies that are different management do not anticipate any material change to the Group, the reported results are restated to comply with to the financial statements will be necessary upon the Groups accounting policies.
The consolidated balance sheet and income statement include IFRS 3 Business Combinations, Amendment, effective the Groups equity interests and results of the Groups 1 January 2010.
The revised standard makes associated undertakings, along with the Groups interests and significant changes to the acquisition method of results of the Groups joint venture undertakings in accordance accounting for business combinations but will only with the net equity method.
affect the Groups financial statements should material acquisitions be made in 2010 or later as the standard will not apply retrospectively.
Foreign currency translation IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the Amendment, effective 1 January 2009.
Specifies exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary accounting for transactions with non-controlling assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are interests and where control of any entity is lost.
translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet Management do not anticipate any material affect date and any exchange differences are taken to the income on the financial statements as a result of adopting statement.
On consolidation, income statements and cash flows of foreign IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum subsidiaries are translated into sterling using average rates that Funding Requirements and Their Interaction, effective existed during the accounting period.
The balance sheets of 1 January 2008.
This interpretation relates to foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the the amount of any pension surplus that can be rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or recognised in the financial statements and may affect the financial statements should material losses arising on the translation of opening and closing net surpluses within defined benefit pension schemes assets are recognised in the statement of recognised income arise, which is not currently anticipated.
WSP Annual Report 2007 55 Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2007 Revenue assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Revenue is stated net of sales tax and is recognised to the recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to estimated recoverable value.
the Group and can be reliably measured.
Revenue represents fee income recognised in respect of services provided during Goodwill the period.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, is stated at net book value as The Group has a number of long term contracts that span at that date.
Goodwill on business combinations recognised more than one financial period.
In calculating revenue, the subsequent to 1 January 2004 is initially measured at cost percentage of completion method is used, based on a review being the excess of the cost of the business combination over of contract progress and the proportion of contract work the interest in the net fair value of the identifiable net assets completed in relation to the total contract works.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured only recognised where they can be reliably measured.
Full at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if contract immediately such losses are identified.
Contract costs changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may include direct staff costs and disbursements.
Amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts Intangible assets billed on account.
To the extent that fees paid on account Intangible assets acquired are capitalised at cost and those exceed the value of work performed, they are included in identified in a business combination are capitalised at fair trade and other payables.
value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any Segmental reporting accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment The directors regard the Groups primary segments of business losses.
Useful lives of intangible assets are assessed on to be: Property, Transport & Infrastructure and Environment acquisition to be either indefinite or finite.
The secondary segments of business are the charged as appropriate on those intangibles with finite lives, geographic regions in which the Group operates.
Costs are while those with indefinite lives are tested for impairment.
allocated to the appropriate segment as they arise with central Software is amortised on a straight-line basis over the overheads apportioned on a reasonable basis.
expected useful life which ranges from three to five years and assets arising on business combinations are amortised Investment in subsidiaries according to the period in which the benefit is realised.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Impairment of assets At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there Property, plant and equipment is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Where the carrying amount of an asset purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of its intended use.
fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off for an individual asset.
If the asset does not generate cash the cost of property, plant and equipment by equal annual inflows that are largely independent of those from other instalments over their expected useful lives, having regard to assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the their residual values.
cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time The annual depreciation rates applicable are as follows: value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
Freehold and long leasehold property 1% Short leasehold property lease term Financial assets available for sale Motor vehicles 25% Available for sale investments are non-derivatives, are carried Plant and equipment 20-33% at their fair value and held in non-current assets, unless it is Fixtures and fittings 10% anticipated that they will be sold within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Realised gains and losses arising from Depreciation is not charged on assets held for sale.
changes in the fair value of available for sale assets are included Depreciation is not charged on capital work in progress until in the consolidated income statement in the period in which the assets are brought into operational use in the business.
Unrealised gains and losses are recorded in The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, equity.
Investments that the Group has the intent and ability and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An 56 WSP Annual Report 2007 to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity and are allocated to future periods.
Capitalised leased assets are included in either current or non-current assets as appropriate.
depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset They are carried at amortised cost.
The Group assesses financial assets at each balance sheet Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and date for impairment.
Impairment testing of trade receivables is benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating described below.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement as incurred on a straight-line basis over the Trade receivables lease term.
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for uncollectible amounts.
An Dividends estimate of uncollectible amounts is made when collection of Final equity dividends to the shareholders of WSP Group plc the full amount is no longer probable.
Uncollectible amounts are recognised in the period that they are approved by the are written off to the income statement when identified.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period that they are paid.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and those Provisions deposits held with banks having a maturity date of less than Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 3 months from the date the deposit was made and being legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and available on demand within one working day without significant it is likely that an outflow of resources embodying economic penalty.
They are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
benefits will be required to settle the obligation and that amount can be reasonably estimated.
Where the Group For the purposes of the cash flow statement cash and cash expects all or some of the obligation to be reimbursed, the equivalents are net of bank overdrafts.
reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset to the extent that it is virtually certain to be reimbursed.
The expense Borrowings relating to any provision is presented in the income statement Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value and borrowing net of any reimbursement.
costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which Provisions are measured at the present value of managements they are incurred, except to the extent that they are directly best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a obligation at the balance sheet date.
If material, provisions are qualifying asset.
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows using rates that reflect current market assessments of the time Pension schemes value of money.
The Group maintains a number of defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the income Deferred taxation statement in the year in which they are due.
In addition, Full provision has been made for deferred taxation balances the Group operates defined benefit schemes which require on all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit schemes purposes at the balance sheet date using the full liability is determined separately for each scheme using the projected method.
unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Current and past service costs together with curtailment and settlement costs are A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent charged to operating profit.
Interest costs which are based on that it is probable that taxable profit will be available to offset a notional charge based on scheme liabilities during the year, against the asset.
Deferred taxation assets are reviewed at less expected returns on scheme assets, are charged to net each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are fully recognised is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be in equity through the statement of recognised income and available to utilise the asset.
The balance sheet reflects the schemes Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are measured at the tax surplus or deficit at the balance sheet date.
rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax Leasing laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are capitalised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased statement.
asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance costs are charged to the income statement over the period of the agreement.
Obligations under finance leases are included in financial liabilities net of finance costs WSP Annual Report 2007 57 Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2007 Share based payments Retirement benefit obligations: The present value of obligations The Company operates a number of executive and employee is calculated on an actuarial basis which depends on a number share schemes.
For all grants of share options and awards, of assumptions relating to the future.
These key assumptions the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using an are assessed regularly according to market conditions and data appropriate option pricing model and the corresponding available to management.
Additional details are given in note expense is recognised over the period to which the associated 24. employees service relates.
The Company has taken advantage Impairment of goodwill: The Group assesses goodwill for of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments impairment annually in accordance with the accounting policy in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only detailed above.
The value in use calculations performed use to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that estimates relating to future predicted cash flows expected had not vested before 1 January 2005. from the cash generating units.
The Group used its weighted average cost of capital as the discount rate for these Employee Benefit Trust EBT calculations as described in note 9 to the financial statements.
The Companys EBT is a separately administered discretionary In addition, the calculations were performed using the discount trust for the benefit of employees.
The assets of the EBT rate increased by 1% which also indicated that no impairment mainly comprise shares in the Company.
The assets, liabilities, to goodwill would need to be recognised.
income and costs of the EBT are consolidated in the financial Intangible assets: On acquisition of subsidiaries, the Group statements.
The investment in own shares is treated as a recognises intangible assets.
This requires judgements to be deduction in Shareholders Funds.
exercised regarding the valuation methodology, expected useful life and discount rates to be applied.
In addition, a Sources of estimation uncertainty and significant judgements number of estimates are used in calculating fair value and The preparation of the financial statements requires the Group changes to these judgements and estimates would affect the to make estimates, judgements and assumptions that affect the carrying value and amortisation charges in respect of these reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses assets.
and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
The directors base their estimates on historical experience and Deferred consideration: Where deferred consideration in various other assumptions that they believe are reasonable respect of acquisitions is payable, this may be contingent upon under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis future events or the acquired business performance.
The for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and most probable outcome of these future events are estimated liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
to ascertain the fair value of this obligation and any change to Actual results may differ from these estimates under different this outcome will affect the carrying value of goodwill and cash assumptions or conditions.
flow of the Group in future periods.
Areas requiring critical judgement and estimation that may significantly impact on the Groups earnings and financial position are considered to be as follows: Revenue recognition: The Group believes that the most significant critical judgement area in the application of its accounting policies is revenue recognition and the assessment of the percentage of completion achieved.
The Group assesses contract progress and determines the proportion of contract work completed at the balance sheet date in relation to the total contract works.
Due to the volume and complexity of the Groups many contracts in existence at any one time it is not practicable to quantify how changes to the assumptions used for each individual contract would affect the Groups financial statements.
