Babcock International Group PLC 86 Annual report and accounts 2007 Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the eighteenth Annual General Meeting of the members of Babcock International Group PLC the company will be held at The Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wimpole Street, London W1G 0AE, on Friday, 13 July 2007, at 11.30 am for the transaction of the following business: As Ordinary Business: 1 To receive the Directors and Auditors reports and the audited Financial Statements of the group and the company for the year ended 31 March 2007.
2 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2007 as recommended by the Directors.
3 To reappoint Mr G A Campbell as a Director of the company.
4 To reappoint Lord Hesketh as a Director of the company.
5 To approve the Remuneration Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2007.
6 To reappoint  LLP as Auditors.
7 To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the Auditors, as they shall in their discretion see t. As Special Business, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions: Ordinary Resolution 8 That the company may send or supply documents or information to members by making them available on a website or by other electronic means and this resolution shall supersede and modify any provision of the companys articles of association to the extent it is inconsistent with this resolution.
Special Resolution 9 That the company is hereby authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 60p each ordinary shares in the capital of the company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 22,800,000: b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is not less than the nominal value thereof exclusive of the expenses of purchase: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of the expenses of purchase shall not exceed 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 December 2008 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company whichever is the earlier unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make purchases of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
A N Dungate Secretary 11 June 2007 Registered Ofce: 2 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PX Notes: 1 As required by the Combined Code, the reasons why the Board of the company believes that the non-executive Director standing for reappointment Lord Hesketh should be reappointed are set out in the Accompanying Notes on page 87.
2 An explanation of the special business resolutions is given in the Explanatory Notes on page 87.
3 A holder of ordinary shares is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and may appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
The proxy need not be a member of the company.
4 A holder of ordinary shares must be entered on the relevant register of securities in respect of such shareholding not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting.
5 A form of proxy is enclosed and, to be effective, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and returned so as to be received by the Registrars of the company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the meeting.
6 Copies of the terms of appointment under which the non-executive Directors of the company are engaged are available for inspection at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Babcock International Group PLC 87 Annual report and accounts 2007 Accompanying notes The Combined Code requires the Board to set out the reasons why it believes that the non-executive Director standing for reappointment Lord Hesketh should be reappointed.
These are as follows: Lord Hesketh: The Board continues to value the contribution that Lord Hesketh brings to its meetings, with his longer-term experience of the groups activities and the markets in which it operates, together with his wide experience in a variety of commercial and political spheres.
In view of his length of service, he does not sit on any Committees membership of which, under the Combined Code, should be confined to independent non-executives directors.
Note from the Chairman: I can confirm, as required by the Combined Code, that having fully evaluated his performance, the Board is of the view that Lord Hesketh continues to be effective in and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
Gordon Campbell Explanatory notes Resolution 8, In January 2007, certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules came into force, which contain new provisions facilitating communications between companies and their shareholders in electronic form and by means of a website.
The new regime has the aim of moving from a paper first to a web first system of communication.
The new regime makes it possible for electronic communication to become the default method of communication, so that shareholders are assumed to have agreed to the company publishing documents and information on its website if certain conditions are met and procedures followed.
This goes beyond the previous legislation, under which a shareholder had to opt positively for communication in electronic form.
To enable the company to benefit from this opportunity to provide for electronic communication as the default method of communication, the company must obtain the consent of shareholders in general meeting.
Accordingly, the company is proposing Resolution 8 which, if passed, will authorise the use of its website and other electronic means as a method of communicating with shareholders who do not request documentation in paper form.
In addition to obtaining the consent of shareholders in general meeting, the new regime also requires the company to ask shareholders individually whether they wish to receive information from the company electronically including through the companys website.
A separate letter containing details of the proposed new arrangements, which are conditional upon the passing of Resolution 8 authorising the use of electronic communication, is included with this notice.
Shareholders who wish to continue to receive hard copy documents from the company should notify the companys registrars in accordance with the instructions set out in the letter.
Notwithstanding any prior request or deemed consent, a shareholder may at any time tell the company that he or she wishes to receive all or specic information in hard copy.
The overall effect of this resolution, therefore, will be to allow the company to increase the use of electronic communications with shareholders, thereby saving considerable administrative, printing and postage costs as well as paper.
However, as already indicated, the rights of those who wish to continue to receive documents in paper form will be fully protected.
Resolution 9, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, will renew the general authority for the company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The renewed authority, in respect of a little under 10% of the companys issued share capital as at 1 June 2007, would be exercisable with a minimum purchase price of 60p per share and a maximum price of not more than 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase.
If granted, the authority would expire on 31 December 2008 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held in 2008.
Shares purchased under the authority would either be cancelled or held by the company as treasury shares.
The Directors have no present intention of using this power, and would only exercise the power if they were satisfied at any time that it was in the best interests of shareholders generally to do so, and that except in the case of a purchase of own shares to be held as treasury shares to full obligations under the companys executive or employee share schemes any purchase would be likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The company has no warrants outstanding and the total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding on 1 June 2007 being the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of meeting was 1,123,751 representing 0.49% of issued share capital as at 1 June 2007.
If the full authority to buy back shares were to be used, and the shares cancelled, these outstanding options would represent 0.55% of issued share capital.
