Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 143 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Corporate Information The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 18 March 2008.
The ultimate parent entity of the Group, Xstrata plc, is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded on the London and Swiss stock exchanges.
The principal activities of the Group are described in note 9.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of Xstrata plc and its subsidiaries the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted by the European Union, effective for the Groups reporting for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the parents functional and presentation currency, and all values are rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies in note 6 have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates Estimates The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
The below are the most critical estimates and assumptions: Estimated recoverable reserves and resources Estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used to determine the depreciation of mine production assets, in accounting for deferred stripping costs and in performing impairment testing.
Estimates are prepared by appropriately qualified persons, but will be impacted by forecast commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs and recoveries amongst other factors.
Changes in assumptions will impact the carrying value of assets and depreciation and impairment charges recorded in the income statement.
Environmental rehabilitation costs The provisions for rehabilitation costs are based on estimated future costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
To the extent the actual costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the income statement may be impacted refer to note 31.
Impairment testing Note 15 outlines the significant assumptions made in performing impairment testing of goodwill and certain intangible assets.
Similar assumptions are made when testing other non-current assets.
Changes in these assumptions may alter the results of impairment testing, impairment charges recorded in the income statement and the resulting carrying values of assets.
Defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical plans Note 34 outlines the significant assumptions made when accounting for defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical plans.
Changes to these assumptions may alter the resulting accounting and ultimately the amount charged to the income statement.
144 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.
Changes in accounting policies, new standards and interpretations not applied Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006, except for the adoption of the following new standards and interpretations: IFRIC 7 Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29 The Group adopted IFRIC Interpretation 7 which details the requirements of applying IAS 29 where an entity identifies the existence of hyperinflation in the economy of its functional currency, when that economy was not hyperinflationary in the prior period, and the entity therefore restates its financial statements in accordance with IAS 29.
The adoption of this interpretation has had no impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or prior years.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment The Group adopted IFRIC Interpretation 10 which requires that an entity must not reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect of goodwill or an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost.
The Group has also adopted the following disclosure standards from 1 January 2007, both of which affect disclosures in the financial statements but neither of which have had any impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or prior periods: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures refer to note 36 IAS 1 Amendment: Capital disclosures New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements, consequently these pronouncements will impact the Groups financial statements in future periods.
Effective date IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 1 July 2009 IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 Operating segments 1 January 2009 IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions 1 March 2007 IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction 1 January 2008 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations on their effective dates will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application, notwithstanding IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations may impact the financial statements should there be an acquisition in the period.
Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will be required to disclose segment information based on the information management uses for internally evaluating the performance of operating segments and allocating resources to those segments.
This information may be different from that reported in the balance sheet and income statement but the Group will provide an explanation for such differences.
There will be no impact on the income, net assets or equity.
Principal Accounting Policies Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Xstrata plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
All inter-entity balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passes.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policy of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
This occurs when the Group has more than 50% voting power through ownership or agreements, except where minority rights are such that a minority shareholder is able to prevent the Group from exercising control.
In addition control may exist without having more than 50% voting power through ownership or agreements, or in the circumstances of enhanced minority rights, as a consequence of fide facto control.
fide facto control is control without the legal right to exercise unilateral control, and involves decision making ability that is not shared with others and the ability to give directions with respect to the operating and financial policies of the entity concerned.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting period during which Xstrata plc has control.
Subsidiaries use the same reporting period and same accounting policies as Xstrata plc.
Interests in Joint Ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The financial statements of the joint ventures are generally prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist in the underlying records of the joint venture.
Jointly controlled operations A jointly controlled operation involves the use of assets and other resources of the Group and other venturers rather than the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
The Group accounts for the assets it controls and the liabilities it incurs, the expenses it incurs and the share of income that it earns from the sale of goods or services by the joint venture.
Jointly controlled assets A jointly controlled asset involves joint control and ownership by the Group and other venturers of assets contributed to or acquired for the purpose of the joint venture, without the formation of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
The Group accounts for its share of the jointly controlled assets, any liabilities it has incurred, its share of any liabilities jointly incurred with other ventures, income from the sale or use of its share of the joint ventures output, together with its share of the expenses incurred by the joint venture, and any expenses it incurs in relation to its interest in the joint venture.
Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other legal entity in which the Group has an interest along with other venturers.
The Group recognises its interest in jointly controlled entities using the proportionate method of consolidation, whereby the Groups share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture are combined with the similar items, line by line, in its consolidated financial statements.
When the Group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture, any gain or loss from the transaction is recognised based on the substance of the transaction.
When the Group has transferred the risk and rewards of ownership to the joint venture, the Group only recognises the portion of the gain or loss attributable to the other venturers, unless the loss is reflective of an impairment, in which case the loss is recognised in full.
When the Group purchases assets from the joint venture, it does not recognise its share of the profits of the joint venture from the transaction until it resells the assets to an independent party.
Losses are accounted for in a similar manner unless they represent an impairment loss, in which case they are recognised immediately.
Joint ventures are accounted for in the manner outlined above, until the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the joint venture.
Investments in Associates Entities in which the Group has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are associates, and are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of acquisition at the fair value of the purchase consideration and therefore includes any goodwill on acquisition.
The carrying amount is adjusted by the Groups share of the post-acquisition profit or loss: depreciation, amortisation or impairment arising from fair value adjustments made at date of acquisition and certain inter-entity transactions together with a reduction for any dividends received or receivable from the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of such changes in equity.
146 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued The financial statements of the associates are generally prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist in the underlying records of the associate.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date on which it ceases to have significant influence, and from that date, accounts for the investment in accordance with IAS 39 with its initial cost being the carrying amount of the associate at that date, provided the investment does not then qualify as a subsidiary or joint venture.
The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates results after tax and the Groups statement of recognised income and expense includes any amounts recognised by associates outside of the income statement.
Business Combinations On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase method of accounting is used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Those mining rights, mineral reserves and resources that are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and mineral rights, for which in the directors opinion, values cannot be reliably determined, are not recognised.
When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually or where there is an indication of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition the difference is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented in equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the parent shareholders equity.
When a subsidiary is acquired in a number of stages, the cost of each stage is compared with the fair value of the identifiable net assets at the date of that purchase.
Any excess is treated as goodwill, or any discount is immediately recognised in the income statement.
On the date control is obtained, the identifiable net assets are recognised in the Group balance sheet at fair value and the difference between the fair value recognised and the value on the date of the purchase is recognised in the asset revaluation reserve.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in associates.
Any goodwill arising on such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the investment in the associates, but not thereafter amortised.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of the investment is included in income in the period of the purchase.
Foreign currencies Financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are maintained in their functional currencies and converted to US dollars for consolidation of the Group results.
The functional currency of each entity is determined after consideration of the primary economic environment of the entity.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at year-end exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a foreign currency, they are translated at the exchange rates when the fair value was determined.
Where the exchange difference relates to an item which has been recorded in equity, the related exchange difference is also recorded in equity.
Principal Accounting Policies continued On consolidation of foreign operations into US dollars, income statement items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange where this is a reasonable approximation of the exchange rate at the dates of the transactions.
Balance sheet items are translated at closing exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the re-translation of the investments in foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at closing rates, together with differences between income statements translated at average and at closing rates, are recorded in a separate component of equity.
Exchange differences relating to quasi equity inter-company loan balances with the foreign operations which form part of the net investment in the foreign operation are also recognised in this component of equity.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity or on repayment of loans forming part of the net investment in the foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to finance net investments and tax charges credits attributable to those exchange differences are also recorded in a separate component of equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
Upon full or partial disposal or repayment of the net investment in the foreign operation including loans that form part of the net investment, the cumulative amount of the exchange differences is recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on disposal or the loan repayment is recognised.
The following exchange rates to the US dollar US$ have been applied: Average Average 31 December 12 months 31 December 12 months 2007 2007 2006 2006 Argentine pesos US$:ARS 3.1500 3.1155 3.0610 3.0745 Australian dollars AUD:US$ 0.8751 0.8389 0.7886 0.7535 Canadian dollars US$:CAD 0.9984 1.0740 1.1659 1.1342 Chilean pesos US$:CLP 497.95 522.21 532.32 530.54 Colombian pesos US$:COP 2,018.00 2,075.16 2,240.00 2,359.39 Euros EUR:US$ 1.4590 1.3708 1.3200 1.2566 Great Britain pounds GBP:US$ 1.9849 2.0020 1.9589 1.8437 Peruvian nuevo sol US$:PEN 2.9980 3.1285 3.1950 3.2737 South African rand US$:ZAR 6.8626 7.0506 7.0061 6.7701 Swiss francs US$:CHF 1.1335 1.2000 1.2190 1.2529 Revenue Revenue associated with the sale of commodities is recognised when all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are transferred to the customer, usually when insurance risk has passed to the customer and the commodity has been delivered to the shipping agent.
Revenue is recognised, at fair value of the consideration receivable, to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Sales revenue is recognised at the fair value of consideration received, which in most cases is invoiced amounts, with most sales being priced free on board FOB, free on rail FOR or cost, insurance and freight CIF.
Revenues from the sale of by-products are also included in sales revenue.
Revenue excludes treatment and refining charges unless payment of these amounts can be enforced by the Group at the time of the sale.
For some commodities the sales price is determined provisionally at the date of sale, with the final price determined at a mutually agreed date, generally at a quoted market price at that time.
In order to ensure that revenue is recorded at the fair value of consideration to be received, adjustments are made to the invoice price based on the forward metal prices published at the balance sheet date.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using the effective interest method in the income statement.
148 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Exceptional items Exceptional items represent significant items of income and expense which due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are presented separately on the face of the income statement to give a better understanding to shareholders of the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
Exceptional items include, but are not limited to, goodwill impairments, acquisition and integration costs which have not been capitalised, profits and losses on the sale of investments, profits and losses from the sale of operations, recycled gains and losses from the foreign currency translation reserve, foreign currency gains and losses on borrowings, restructuring and closure costs, loan issue costs written-off on facility refinancing and the related tax impacts of these items.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings, plant and equipment On initial acquisition, land and buildings, plant and equipment are valued at cost, being the purchase price and the directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the location and condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
In subsequent periods, buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, whilst land is stated at cost less any impairment in value and is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual values of buildings, plant and equipment based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date on the following bases: Mine production assets are depreciated using a unit of production method based on estimated economically recoverable reserves, which results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of reserves.
Buildings, plant and equipment unrelated to production are depreciated using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives.
Where parts of an asset have different useful lives, depreciation is calculated on each separate part.
Each item or parts estimated useful life has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located, and to possible future variations in those assessments.
Estimates of remaining useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Changes in estimates which affect unit of production calculations are accounted for prospectively.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Buildings 15 40 years Plant and Equipment 4 30 years The net carrying amounts of land, buildings, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes the cost of the replacement of parts of assets and overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will be available to the Group, the expenditure is capitalised and the carrying amount of the item replaced derecognised.
Similarly, overhaul costs associated with major maintenance are capitalised and depreciated over their useful lives where it is probable that future economic benefits will be available and any remaining carrying amounts of the cost of previous overhauls are derecognised.
All other costs are expensed as incurred.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is disposed of, it is derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and net sales proceeds is disclosed as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement.
Any items of property, plant or equipment that cease to have future economic benefits expected to arise from their continued use or disposal are derecognised with any gain or loss included in the income statement in the financial year in which the item is derecognised.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources and includes costs such as exploratory drilling and sample testing and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from the purchase of another mining company, is carried forward as an asset provided that one of the following conditions is met: such costs are expected to be recouped in full through successful development and exploration of the area of interest or alternatively, by its sale: or exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not yet reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant operations in relation to the area are continuing, or planned for the future.
Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
An impairment review is performed, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level, when there are indicators that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amounts.
To the extent that this occurs, the excess is fully provided against, in the financial year in which this is determined.
Exploration and evaluation assets are reassessed on a regular basis and these costs are carried forward provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above is met.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets or capital work in progress once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approvals.
Mineral properties and mine development expenditure The cost of acquiring mineral reserves and mineral resources is capitalised on the balance sheet as incurred.
Capitalised costs development expenditure include costs associated with a start-up period where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
Mineral reserves and capitalised mine development expenditure are, upon commencement of production, depreciated using a unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate or are written off if the property is abandoned.
The net carrying amounts of mineral reserves and resources and capitalised mine development expenditure at each mine property are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Capital work in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital work in progress account.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Costs associated with a start-up period are capitalised where the asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
The net carrying amounts of capital work in progress at each mine property are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cashgenerating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based in the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
150 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease agreement.
These amounts are determined at the inception of the lease and are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease term.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the lease or hire purchase obligations are charged to the income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have not passed to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Deferred stripping costs In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste in order to access the ore body.
During the pre-production phase, these costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the mine property and depreciated based on the mines strip ratio refer below.
The costs of removal of the waste material during a mine's production phase are deferred, where they give rise to future benefits.
The deferral of these costs, and subsequent charges to the income statement are determined with reference to the mine's strip ratio.
The mines strip ratio represents the ratio of the estimated total volume of waste, to the estimated total quantity of economically recoverable ore, over the life of the mine.
These costs are deferred where the actual stripping ratios are higher than the average life of mine strip ratio.
The costs charged to the income statement are based on application of the mines strip ratio to the quantity of ore mined in the period.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly distributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
Biological assets Biological assets, being cattle, are carried at their fair value less estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Intangible assets Purchased intangible assets are recorded at the cost of acquisition including expenses incidental to the acquisition, less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, except goodwill and those intangible assets which the directors regard as having indefinite useful lives, which are not amortised but are reviewed for impairment at least annually, and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are regarded as having an indefinite life when, based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows.
Such analyses are performed annually.
Estimated useful lives are determined as the period over which the Group expects to use the asset or the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the Group and for which the Group retains control of access to those benefits.
For intangible assets with a finite useful life, the amortisation method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where an intangible asset is disposed of, it is derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and the net sales proceeds is reported as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement in the financial year the disposal occurs.
Coal export rights Coal export rights are carried at cost and amortised using a units-of-production method based on the reserves that exist in the location that has access to such rights.
Software and technology patents Software and technology patents are carried at cost and amortised over a period of 3 years and 20 years respectively.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Hydroelectricity rights Hydroelectricity rights acquired in connection with the acquisition of the Falconbridge Group refer to note 7 have been recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition and will be amortised over the expected life of the operation following the completion of construction.
Long-term feed contract A long-term feed contract acquired in connection with the acquisition of the Falconbridge Group refer to note 7 has been recorded at fair value at the date of the acquisition and is being amortised over the remaining contract term.
Impairment of assets The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, a review is undertaken to determine whether the carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
Where a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, has goodwill allocated to it excluding goodwill recognised as a result of the requirement to recognise deferred tax liabilities on acquisitions, or includes intangible assets which are either not available for use or which have an indefinite useful life and which can only be tested as part of a cash-generating unit, an impairment test is performed at least annually or whenever there is an indication that the carrying amounts of such assets may be impaired.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
In assessing the recoverable amount of assets, the relevant future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of such assets and from their disposal are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and asset-specific risks for which the cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
An impairment loss is reversed in the income statement if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior impairment loss had not been recognised.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill impairments are not reversed.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal groups are available for immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classified as held for sale, and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is not depreciated while classified as held for sale.
A non-current asset held for sale is presented separately in the balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately as one line in the assets and liabilities sections on the face of the balance sheet.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of an entity, whose operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished both operationally and for financial reporting purposes from the rest of the entity, that has been disposed of or classified as held for sale.
To be classified as a discontinued operation one of the following criteria must be met: the operation must represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or the operation must be part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical areas of operations: or the operation must be a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view for resale.
Where the operation is discontinued at the balance sheet date, the results are presented in one line on the face of the income statement, and prior period results are represented as discontinued.
152 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Financial instruments Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Where as a result of a change in intention or ability, it is no longer appropriate to classify an investment as held to maturity, the investment is reclassified into the available-for-sale category.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value on the trade date, plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value.
Subsequently, all financial liabilities with the exception of derivatives are carried at amortised cost.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets classified as held for trading are included in the category financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as and are effective hedging instruments.
Gains or losses on these items are recognised in income.
Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Investments intended to be held for an undefined period are not included in this classification.
Other long term investments that are intended to be held-to-maturity, such as bonds, are measured at amortised cost.
This cost is computed as the amount initially recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity amount.
This calculation includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
For investments carried at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in income when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at their original invoiced value or their recoverable amount if this differs from the invoiced amount.
Where the time value of money is material receivables are discounted and are carried at their present value.
A provision is made where the estimated recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified in any of the other three stated categories.
After initial recognition available-for sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Listed share investments are carried at fair value based on stock exchange quoted prices at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted shares are carried at fair value where it can be reliably obtained, otherwise they are stated at cost less any impairment.
Fair values The fair value of quoted financial assets is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include recent arms length market transactions: reference to current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
Derivative financial instruments are valued using applicable valuation techniques such as those outlined above.
fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, it continues to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the asset.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Gains and losses on fiderecognition are recognised within finance income and finance costs respectively.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables and held to maturity investments carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Objective evidence of impairment of loans and receivables exists if the borrower is experiencing significant financial difficulty, there is a breach of contract, concessions are granted to the borrower that would not normally be granted or it is probable that the borrower will enter into bankruptcy or a financial reorganisation.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in profit.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Rehabilitation Trust Fund Investments in the rehabilitation trust funds are measured at fair value based on the market price of investments held by the trust.
In accordance with IFRIC 5, movements in the fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Such amounts relate to trusts in South Africa which receive cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liability relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, forward currency and commodity contracts to hedge its risks associated with interest rate, foreign currency and commodity price fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
154 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to profit or loss for the year.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates and prices for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: fair value hedges: cash flow hedges: or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedges that are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are hedges of the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that could affect profit or loss.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative is re-measured at fair value and gains and losses from both are taken to profit or loss.
For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, the adjustment to carrying value is amortised through profit or loss over the remaining term to maturity.
Any adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss.
Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges are a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
Hedges of a net investment Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised directly in equity while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they are issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfer to employees are recognised in equity.
Own shares purchased under the Equity Capital Management Programme ECMP are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of such shares.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Loans are recognised at inception at the fair value of proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Convertible borrowings On issue of a convertible borrowing, the fair value of the liability component is determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows using a market rate for a non-convertible instrument with similar terms.
This value is carried as a liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the proceeds are allocated to a separate component of equity, net of issue costs, which remains constant in subsequent periods.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts when the instrument was issued.
On conversion, the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the profit or loss.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element in profit or loss.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be payable on redemption.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted average basis or using a first-in-first-out basis and includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business including direct material and direct labour costs and an allocation of production overheads, depreciation and amortisation and other costs, based on normal production capacity, incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost of inventories includes the transfers from equity of gains and losses on qualifying cash flow hedges in respect of the purchase of materials.
Inventories are categorised, as follows: Raw materials and consumables: Materials, goods or supplies including energy sources to be either directly or indirectly consumed in the production process.
Work in progress: Items stored in an intermediate state that have not yet passed through all the stages of production.
Finished goods: Products and materials that have passed all stages of the production process.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include certain bank overdrafts where the facility forms part of the working capital cash management activities.
Government grants Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all the attaching conditions will be complied with.
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to the carrying amount of the related asset and are released to the income statement over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants which are not associated with an asset are credited to income so as to match them with the expense to which they relate.
156 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs Provision is made for close down, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the financial period when the related environmental disturbance occurs, based on the estimated future costs using information available at the balance sheet date.
The provision is discounted using a current market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in interest expense.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised, where it gives rise to a future benefit, and depreciated over future production from the operations to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes to obligations, legislation or discount rates that impact estimated costs or lives of operations.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the provision resulting from changes in the estimated cash flows or discount rate and the adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively.
Rehabilitation trust funds holding monies committed for use in satisfying environmental obligations are included within Other financial assets on the balance sheet.
Employee Entitlements Provisions are recognised for short-term employee entitlements, on an undiscounted basis, for services rendered by employees that remain unpaid at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for long-term employee entitlements are measured using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the liabilities.
In some of the Groups Australian operations, long-service leave an employee entitlement for which a provision is recorded is administered by an independent fund.
The fund collects levies from employers throughout the industry based on the expected cost of future liabilities.
When the Group makes long-service leave payments to employees covered by the fund, it is reimbursed for the majority of the payment.
To reflect the expected reimbursement for future long-service leave payments from the fund, a receivable is recorded based on the present value of the future amounts expected to be reimbursed.
Other Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive, as result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the obligation.
Where the effect is material, the provision is discounted to net present value using an appropriate current market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
Taxation Current tax Current tax for each taxable entity in the Group is based on the local taxable income at the local statutory tax rate enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and includes adjustments to tax payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method in respect of all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except as indicated below: Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
To the extent that an asset not previously recognised fulfils the criteria for recognition, a deferred income tax asset is recorded.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Mining taxes and royalties are treated and disclosed as current and deferred taxes if they have the characteristics of an income tax.
Pensions and other post-retirement obligations The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
The Group contributes to separately administered defined benefit pension plans.
For defined benefit funds, plan assets are measured at fair value, while plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
In measuring its defined benefit liability-past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a defined benefit plan, the past service costs are recognised immediately.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for part or all of the benefits that have already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the year is determined using the projected unit method and is recognised in the income statement.
The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities is recognised in the income statement.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity through the statement of recognised income and expenses.
The full pension surplus or deficit is recorded in the balance sheet, with the exception of the impact of any recognition of past service costs.
Surpluses recorded are restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
The Group also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain employees in Canada, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and the United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit pension plans.
Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
158 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Principal Accounting Policies continued Share-based compensation plans The Group makes share-based awards, including free shares and options, to certain employees.
Equity-settled awards For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the income statement and credited to retained earnings, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest taking into account the achievement of non-market based performance conditions.
The fair value of the equity-settled awards is determined at the date of the grant.
In calculating fair value, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
The fair value is determined by external experts using option pricing models.
At each balance sheet date prior to vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest, is computed after adjusting for non-market performance conditions.
The movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding entry within equity.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification, over the remainder of the new vesting period.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the awards at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the new awards are treated as if they are a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
Cash-settled awards For cash-settled awards, the fair value is re-calculated at each balance sheet date until the awards are settled, based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest adjusting for market and non-market based performance conditions.
During the vesting period, a liability is recognised representing the portion of the vesting period which has expired at the balance sheet date times the fair value of the awards at that date.
After vesting, the full fair value of the unsettled awards at each balance date is recognised as a liability.
Movements in the liability are recognised in the income statement.
The fair value is re-calculated using an option pricing model refer to note 34.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial period incurred, except to the extent they are related to the establishment of a loan facility.
In such cases they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility.
Comparatives Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them on the same basis as current period figures, for the finalisation of the acquisition accounting refer to note 7 and discontinued operations and disposals refer to note 8.
Acquisitions Current year business combinations In January 2007, the Group exercised an option to obtain a 73.7% interest in the Frieda River copper-gold porphyry in Papua New Guinea for US$14 million.
Following an announcement in late 2006, in March 2007 the Group completed the exercise of its option to acquire a 62.5% interest in Sagittarius Mines Inc SMI for US$47 million.
SMI is the holder of Tampakan copper-gold project.
The Group now has management control of the Tampakan project.
In August 2007, the Group acquired the remaining 50% interest in the Narama thermal coal mine in Australia from Iluka Resources Limited Iluka for US$58 million.
In September 2007, the Group acquired the 16% of Cumnock Coal Limited which it previously did not own for US$22 million.
Cumnock Coal Limited is a coal mining company, which was listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
In October 2007, the Group acquired 85.85% of Austral Coal Limited Austral and obtained control of the company.
By 21 December 2007, the Group had acquired the remaining 14.15% of the company.
The total cost of these purchases was US$542 million.
Austral owns the Tahmoor underground coking coal operation in the southern coalfields of New South Wales, Australia.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Austral as at the date of obtaining control were: IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Property, plant and equipment 166 563 729 Deferred tax assets 42 38 4 Prepayments 6 6 Inventories 14 14 Trade and other receivables 18 18 246 525 771 Trade and other payables 23 1 24 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 167 167 Provisions 16 23 39 Deferred tax liabilities 169 169 Net assets 40 332 372 Goodwill arising on acquisition 169 541 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 1 Cash paid 512 Contingent consideration 30 541 160 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued The fair values are provisional due to the complexity and timing of the acquisition.
The review of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired will continue for 12 months from the acquisition date.
The Groups share of Australs loss from the date of acquisition amounted to US$4 million.
The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
In October 2007, the Group acquired the Anvil Hill coal project from Centennial Coal Company Limited for US$468 million.
The Anvil Hill coal project is located in the Upper Hunter Valley, Australia.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Anvil Hill as at the date of acquisition were: IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Property, plant and equipment 228 274 502 Deferred tax assets 1414 228 288 516 Provisions 48 48 Deferred tax liabilities 23 23 Net assets 205 263 468 Consideration: Cash paid 445 Contingent consideration 23 468 The fair values are provisional due to the timing of the acquisition.
Acquisitions continued Eland Platinum Holdings Limited In November 2007, the Group acquired 100% of Eland Platinum Holdings Limited Eland.
Eland was previously listed on the Johannesburg stock exchange and holds an indirect 65% interest in the Elandsfontein platinum project.
The Group also acquired an additional 9% interest in the Elandsfontein platinum project increasing the Groups interest in the project to 74%.
In addition to the Elandsfontein platinum project, Eland has controlling interests in Madibeng Platinum Pty Ltd and Beestkraal Platinum Mines Pty Ltd.
These companies own the rights to other platinum resources in South Africa.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$1,113 million.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Eland including the additional interest in the Elandsfontein Project as at the date of acquisition were: IFRS Fair Provisional carrying value fair value US$m value adjustments to Group Property, plant and equipment 185 1,371 1,556 Inventories 16 16 Trade and other receivables 4 4 205 1,371 1,576 Trade and other payables 13 13 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 86 86 Provisions 5 5 Deferred tax liabilities 2 398 400 Income taxes payable 1 1 Net assets 98 973 1,071 Minority interests 37 369 406 Net attributable assets 61 604 665 Goodwill arising on acquisition 398 1,063 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 50 Cash paid 1,113 1,063 The fair values are provisional due to the timing and complexity of the acquisition.
The Groups share of Elands loss from the date of acquisition amounted to US$4 million.
If the above combinations had taken place at the beginning of 2007, the Groups results would have been: US$m 2007 Revenue 29,256 Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 11,314 Profit before interest and taxation 9,141 Profit for the year 5,866 162 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued Prior year business combinations Falconbridge Limited The Group obtained control of Falconbridge Limited Falconbridge in August 2006 for a total cash cost of US$18,819 million including transaction costs.
As at 31 December 2006 the fair values of the identified assets and liabilities acquired were provisional, due to the timing and complexity of the acquisition.
During 2007, these values were finalised as follows in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value at a US$m reported adjustments acquisition Intangible assets 267 701 968 Property, plant and equipment 18,692 648 18,044 Inventories 2,306 1 2,305 Trade and other receivables 1,372 3 1,375 Investments in associates 134 134 Available-for-sale financial assets 140 10 150 Derivative financial assets 56 56 Other financial assets 125 83 42 Prepayments 61 2 63 23,153 16 23,137 Trade and other payables 1,804 15 1,819 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3,800 3,800 Derivative financial liabilities 125 125 Provisions 1,239 164 1,403 Pension deficit 235 76 311 Deferred tax liabilities 3,081 331 3,412 Income tax payable 339 14 353 Net assets 12,530 616 11,914 Minority interests 45 426 471 Net attributable assets 12,485 1,042 11,443 Goodwill 2,859 486 3,345 Net attributable assets including goodwill 15,344 556 14,788 Provisional Adjustments Final Total consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 879 879 Acquisition costs 68 68 Cash paid for 19.9% acquired in 2005 1,715 1,715 Cash paid for 80.1% acquired in 2006 17,036 17,036 17,940 17,940 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 163 7.
Acquisitions continued US$m Provisional Adjustments Final Goodwill arising on acquisition on 19.9% interest in Falconbridge in 2005: Cash paid 1,715 1,715 Less fair value of the 19.9% share of the attributable net assets acquired 1,715 1,715 Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition on 80.1% interest in Falconbridge in 2006: 80.1% of net cash acquired with the subsidiary 704 704 Acquisition costs 68 68 Cash paid 17,036 17,036 16,400 16,400 Less 80.1% share of the attributable net assets acquired 12,291 446 11,845 Goodwill on 80.1% acquisition 4,109 446 4,555 Goodwill from above 2,859 486 3,345 b Total goodwill 6,968 932 7,900 This goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
In accordance with IFRS, this represents 19.9% of the fair value of the net assets at the date of acquisition in 2005.
Included in this goodwill are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated or reliably measured from the acquisition due to their nature.
These items include the expected value of synergies and an assembled workforce.
a The fair values of identified assets and liabilities acquired have been finalised in 2007.
This has resulted in updates to a number of fair values reflected at 31 December 2006.
The main adjustments relate to: Intangibles increased after a review to identify such assets was undertaken, and includes long-term feed contracts and rights to a hydroelectricity development project.
Valuations of property, plant and equipment were finalised resulting in a decrease in value.
Provision balances have increased following a review of the level of provisioning, particularly with regard to rehabilitation and restoration obligations.
The pension deficit obligations have increased as a result of further assessments of future obligations and actuarial assumptions.
A net increase in tax liabilities following a thorough review of tax obligations on acquisition.
A review of joint venture arrangements was undertaken to assess whether the Group has joint control or control over such entities.
In one instance, it was determined that the Group controlled as opposed to jointly controlled the operation.
Accordingly, this entity has been consolidated as opposed to proportionally consolidated.
This has resulted in an increase to property, plant and equipment and minority interests.
b As required by IFRS 3, all adjustments made in finalising the acquisition accounting have been presented as if the accounting had been completed on the acquisition date.
Accordingly, the additional goodwill recorded as a result of the finalisation of the acquisition accounting is subject to impairment testing at 31 December 2006.
This has resulted in an additional impairment charge of US$446 million which, in accordance with IFRS 3, has been recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2006, increasing the total impairment charge to US$1,824 million.
There was no other significant income statement impact arising as a result of finalising the acquisition accounting.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2006, Falconbridge contributed a profit of US$1,218 million to the Group prior to the impairment expense of US$1,824 million.
164 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued Tintaya In June 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the Tintaya copper mine in Peru.
At 31 December 2006, the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities was provisional due to the complexity of the acquisition.
In 2007, the acquisition accounting was finalised as follows: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value at a US$m reported adjustments acquisition Property, plant and equipment 791 26 817 Prepayments 1 1 Inventories 90 90 Trade and other receivables 139 139 1,021 26 1,047 Trade and other payables 33 33 Provisions 94 94 Deferred tax liabilities 139 8 147 Income tax payable 33 33 Net assets 722 18 740 b Goodwill arising on acquisition 125 8 133 Cost 847 26 873 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 5 5 Cash paid 816 816 Contingent consideration 36 26 62 847 26 873 a These adjustments arose due to the finalisation of valuations of property, plant and equipment that increased the contingent consideration payable by an equivalent amount.
b The goodwill balance is a result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
As discussed above, this balance was subject to impairment testing as at 31 December 2006 and it has been determined that no impairment existed.
There were no other significant income statement impacts arising as a result of finalising the acquisition accounting.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2006, Tintaya contributed a profit of US$189 million to the Group.
Acquisitions continued Cerrejn 1 The Group purchased a 33 % interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia in April 2006.
The acquisition accounting was 3 provisional at 31 December 2006 due to the complexity of the acquisition.
In 2007, the acquisition accounting was finalised as follows: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value at a US$m reported adjustments acquisition Property, plant and equipment 1,688 1,688 Investment in associates Derivative financial assets 70 70 Inventories 44 44 Trade and other receivables 85 85 1,887 1,887 Trade and other payables 79 79 Provisions 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 477 477 Income tax payable 17 17 Derivative financial liabilities 60 60 Net assets 1,251 1,251 b Goodwill arising on acquisition 464 464 Cost 1,715 1,715 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the joint venture interest 9 9 Acquisition costs 5 5 Cash paid 1,719 1,719 1,715 1,715 a The fair values of identified assets and liabilities acquired have been finalised.
There were no changes to the provisional fair values at 31 December 2006. b The goodwill balance is a result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2006, Cerrejon contributed a profit of US$76 million to the Group.
Tavistock TESA Joint Venture On 1 December 2006, the Group agreed to purchase the remaining 50% interest in the Tavistock TESA joint venture in South Africa from its joint venture partner, Total Coal South Africa Pty Ltd for US$49 million.
If the above combinations had taken place at the beginning of 2006, the Groups results would have been: US$m 2006 Revenue 26,877 Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 9,680 Profit before interest and taxation 6,381 Profit for the year 3,477 166 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 7.
Acquisitions continued Consolidated information The below information is provided in aggregate for all business combinations in 2007 and 2006: US$m 2007 2006 Intangible assets 968 Property, plant and equipment 2,997 20,575 Inventories 30 2,439 Trade and other receivables 38 1,601 Investments in associates 134 Financial assets 318 Prepayments 6 64 3,071 26,099 Trade and other payables 46 1,931 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 301 3,800 Derivative financial liabilities 185 Provisions 92 1,500 Pension deficit 311 Deferred tax liabilities 572 4,036 Income tax payable 1 403 Net assets 2,059 13,933 Minority interests 429 471 Net attributable assets 1,630 13,462 Goodwill 589 8,497 Net attributable assets including goodwill 2,219 21,959 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 52 914 Acquisition costs 3 73 Cash paid in prior year 1,715 Cash paid in current year 2,179 19,620 Contingent consideration 89 62 2,219 20,556 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 167 7.
Acquisitions continued Interests in joint ventures Prior year interests in joint ventures Effective 1 July 2006, the Group concluded an agreement with African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM, to establish a new black majority owned company, ARM Coal, to be 51% owned by ARM and 49% by Xstrata.
ARM is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and is controlled by historically disadvantaged South Africans HDSAs.
ARM Coal holds a 20% participation share in the Groups existing South African coal business, and a majority 51% interest in the Goedgevonden project, through a joint venture with the Group.
ARM contributed ZAR400 million US$56 million in cash for its 51% shareholding in ARM Coal.
The Group facilitated ARM Coals entry by funding the acquisition of 51% of the Goedgevonden project for ZAR 765 million US$107 million and will provide all the funding required to commission this project.
The Groups funding, including debt allocated to the existing South African coal business, was on preferential terms through the use of interest and capital repayment holidays.
ARM Coal receives a proportion of the cash flows from operations with the balance used to repay debt.
In August 2006, ARM exercised an option to acquire a further 10% direct interest in the Groups coal operations in South Africa, excluding the Goedgevonden project, for ZAR400 million US$56 million and an effective interest in Xstratas South African coal business of 36%.
During 2006, the Mototolo joint venture, the terms of which were agreed with Anglo Platinum in 2005, was completed.
During the first half of 2006, the Group and Kagiso Trust Investments Kagiso formed a black economic empowerment partnership in respect of Xstratas 50% interest in the Mototolo joint venture.
Kagiso acquired 26% of the Groups 50% interest, resulting in Kagiso owning a fully participative 13% interest in the earnings of the Mototolo joint venture.
The Group retained a 37% interest in the Mototolo joint venture.
To acquire this interest, Kagiso agreed to fund the joint venture expenditure costs both incurred and in the future in proportion to its interest.
168 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 8.
Discontinued operations and disposals Disposals Aluminium The Aluminium business was sold on 18 May 2007 to Apollo Management LP.
The disposal proceeds amounted to US$1,150 million before disposal costs of US$24 million, resulting in the Group realising a gain of US$1 million after tax of US$12 million.
The results of the aluminium business for the periods ended are presented below: 01.01.07 to 15.08.06 to US$m 18.05.07 31.12.06 Revenue 542 530 Cost of sales before depreciation and amortisation 406 396 Distribution costs 9 11 Administrative expenses 7 Profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation 120 123 Depreciation and amortisation cost of sales 31 25 Profit before interest and taxation 89 98 Finance income 22 Finance costs 2 7 Profit before taxation 89 93 Income tax expense 37 29 Profit for the period from discontinued operation 52 64 Gain on disposal of the discontinued operation 1 Profit after tax for the period from discontinued operations 53 64 The carrying value of the major classes of assets and liabilities at the date of the sale were: US$m at 18.05.07 Intangible assets 139 Property, plant and equipment 1,011 Inventories 215 Trade and other receivables 176 Other financial assets 31 Trade and other payables 92 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 Provisions 37 Pension deficit 19 Deferred tax liabilities 298 Income tax payable 6 Net assets 1,119 Cash inflow on disposal: Cash disposed of with the subsidiary 6 Cash received 1,150 Disposal costs 24 Net cash inflow 1,120 Gain on disposal of the discontinued operation 1 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 169 8.
Discontinued operations and disposals continued Earnings per share from discontinued operations: US$ 2007 2006 Basic earnings per share 0.06 0.08 Diluted earnings per share 0.05 0.08 The cash flows arising from the aluminium business unit up to the date of sale were operational in nature and were materially the same as its profits.
Following the acquisition of 100% of the assets of Cumnock Coal in September refer above, in December 10% of the assets were sold for US$7 million.
Prior year disposals On 19 October 2006, the Group disposed of its Cook coal operation to Caledon Resources Limited.
A gain of $16 million was recognised on the disposal.
Consolidated information The below information is provided in aggregate for all disposals in both 2007 and 2006: US$m 2007 2006 Intangible assets 139 Property, plant and equipment 1,018 14 Inventories 216 1 Trade and other receivables 176 1 Financial assets 31 1,580 16 Trade and other payables 93 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 Provisions 37 Pension deficit 19 Deferred tax liabilities 298 Income tax payable 6 Net assets 1,126 16 Consideration: Net cash disposed of with the subsidiary 6 Cash received 1,150 24 Disposal costs 24 Contingent consideration 7 8 Total consideration 1,127 32 Gain on disposal of the discontinued operation 1 16 170 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments.
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products produced, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers different products and serves different markets.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups assets and operations.
Business segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.07 At 31.12.06 Total assets Before tax assets and investments in associates: Coal 11,365 8,860 Chrome 1,290 1,146 Platinum 2,194 108 Vanadium 159 170 Copper 19,825 19,256 Nickel 9,402 9,178 Zinc Lead 7,015 6,407 Technology 140 104 Total segmental assets continuing operations 51,390 45,229 Unallocated 666 660 52,056 45,889 Discontinued operation: Aluminium 1,630 Total 52,056 47,519 Deferred tax assets: Coal 2 Chrome 2 2 Copper 6 Zinc Lead 3 8 Total deferred tax assets continuing operations 7 16 Unallocated 2 Discontinued operations: 7 18 Aluminium 4 Total 7 22 Investment in associates: Coal 54 48 Zinc Lead 132 131 Total investment in associates continuing operations 186 179 Total assets Coal 11,421 8,908 Chrome 1,292 1,148 Platinum 2,194 108 Vanadium 159 170 Copper 19,825 19,262 Nickel 9,402 9,178 Zinc Lead 7,150 6,546 Technology 140 104 Total assets from continuing operations 51,583 45,424 Unallocated 666 662 52,249 46,086 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 1,634 Total assets 52,249 47,720 Includes corporate assets not directly attributable to business segments.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.07 At 31.12.06 Total liabilities Before tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 1,304 740 Chrome 158 106 Platinum 20 37 Vanadium 25 24 Copper 2,438 2,142 Nickel 1,354 749 Zinc Lead 1,362 1,234 Technology 108 55 Total segmental liabilities continuing operations 6,769 5,087 Unallocated 589 774 7,358 5,861 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 225 Total 7,358 6,086 Tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 1,872 1,826 Chrome 188 144 Platinum 447 Copper 3,059 3,313 Nickel 1,476 1,477 Zinc Lead 710 680 Technology 10 3 Total tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings continuing operations 7,762 7,443 Unallocated 11,871 14,296 19,633 21,739 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 303 Total 19,633 22,042 Total liabilities Coal 3,176 2,566 Chrome 346 250 Platinum 467 37 Vanadium 25 24 Copper 5,497 5,455 Nickel 2,830 2,226 Zinc Lead 2,072 1,914 Technology 118 58 Total liabilities from continuing operations 14,531 12,530 Unallocated 12,460 15,070 26,991 27,600 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 528 Total 26,991 28,128 These liabilities are included in interestbearing loans and borrowings, convertible borrowings, deferred tax liabilities and income taxes payable line items in the balance sheet.
176 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.07 At 31.12.06 Net assets Before tax assets and liabilities, investment in associates, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 10,061 8,120 Chrome 1,132 1,040 Platinum 2,174 71 Vanadium 134 146 Copper 17,387 17,114 Nickel 8,048 8,429 Zinc Lead 5,653 5,173 Technology 32 49 Total segmental net assets continuing operations 44,621 40,142 Unallocated 77 114 44,698 40,028 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 1,405 Total 44,698 41,433 Deferred tax assets, tax liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Coal 1,870 1,826 Chrome 186 142 Platinum 447 Copper 3,059 3,307 Nickel 1,476 1,477 Zinc Lead 707 672 Technology 10 3 Total continuing operations 7,755 7,427 Unallocated 11,871 14,294 19,626 21,721 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 299 Total 19,626 22,020 Investment in associates: Coal 54 48 Zinc Lead 132 131 Total continuing operations 186 179 Net assets Coal 8,245 6,342 Chrome 946 898 Platinum 1,727 71 Vanadium 134 146 Copper 14,328 13,807 Nickel 6,572 6,952 Zinc Lead 5,078 4,632 Technology 22 46 Net assets from continuing operations 37,052 32,894 Unallocated 11,794 14,408 25,258 18,486 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 1,106 Total 25,258 19,592 Includes corporate assets and liabilities not directly attributable to business segments.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m 2007 2006 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Coal 460 226 Chrome 47 36 Vanadium 9 4 Copper 425 191 Nickel 281 68 Zinc Lead 219 114 Technology 3 1 Total sustaining continuing operations 1,444 640 Unallocated 11 4 1,455 644 Discontinued operations Aluminium 12 18 Total 1,467 662 Expansionary: Coal 347 289 Chrome 46 161 Platinum 17 58 Vanadium 1 1 Copper 296 159 Nickel 424 120 Zinc Lead 285 158 Technology 1 1 Total expansionary continuing operations 1,417 947 Discontinued operations Aluminium 1 4 Total 1,418 951 Total capital expenditure: Coal 807 515 Chrome 93 197 Platinum 17 58 Vanadium 10 5 Copper 721 350 Nickel 705 188 Zinc Lead 504 272 Technology 4 2 Total from continuing operations 2,861 1,587 Unallocated 11 4 2,872 1,591 Discontinued operations Aluminium 13 22 Total 2,885 1,613 178 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued The average number of employees, which includes executive directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 Coal 9,179 7,797 Chrome 7,000 6,374 Platinum 974 464 Vanadium 525 530 Copper 10,368 5,619 Nickel 4,738 1,586 Zinc Lead 4,734 4,562 Technology 77 65 Total continuing operations 37,595 26,997 Unallocated 103 76 37,698 27,073 Discontinued operations Aluminium 1,250 1,125 Total 38,948 28,198 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: Coal 6,156 5,378 Chrome 4,025 3,912 Platinum 398 227 Vanadium 236 1,188 Copper 8,425 3,135 Nickel 1,332 310 Zinc Lead 1,684 1,511 Technology 62 61 Total continuing operations 22,318 15,722 Unallocated 5 22,323 15,722 Discontinued operations Aluminium 178 160 Total 22,501 15,882 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 179 9.
Segmental Analysis continued Geographical segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006.
Segmental Analysis continued Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional US$m items items 2007 items items 2006 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation: Africa 151 151 106 106 North America 526 526 272 272 South America 750 750 392 392 Australasia 521 521 386 386 Europe 42 42 36 36 Depreciation continuing operations 1,990 1,990 1,192 1,192 Unallocated 4 4 4 4 1,994 1,994 1,196 1,196 Discontinued operations: North America 31 31 25 25 Total 2,025 2,025 1,221 1,221 Amortisation: Africa 34 34 North America 58 58 13 13 South America 1 1 3 3 Australasia 5 5 4 4 Europe 1 1 1 1 Amortisation continuing operations 99 99 21 21 Unallocated 3 3 2 2 102 102 23 23 Total: Africa 185 185 106 106 North America 584 584 285 285 South America 751 751 395 395 Australasia 526 526 390 390 Europe 43 43 37 37 Depreciation and amortisation 2,089 2,089 1,213 1,213 from continuing operations Unallocated 7 7 6 6 2,096 2,096 1,219 1,219 Discontinued operations: North America 31 31 25 25 Total 2,127 2,127 1,244 1,244 Impairment of assets Unallocated 1,824 1,824 Total impairment of assets continuing operations 1,824 1,824 Represented by: Copper Americas 792 792 Zinc Lead 1,032 1,032 Total 1,824 1,824 182 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.07 At 31.12.06 Total assets Before tax assets and investment in associates: Africa 6,378 3,902 North America 9,703 9,591 South America 18,023 19,044 Australasia 12,420 8,037 Europe 2,135 1,924 Total segmental assets continuing operations 48,659 42,498 Unallocated 3,397 3,391 52,056 45,889 Discontinued operations: North America 1,630 Total 52,056 47,519 Deferred tax assets: Africa 4 2 North America 6 Europe 3 8 Total continuing operations 7 16 Unallocated 2 7 18 Discontinued operations: North America 4 Total 7 22 Investment in associates: Africa 4 2 North America 132 131 Australasia 50 46 Total continuing operations 186 179 Total assets Africa 6,386 3,906 North America 9,835 9,728 South America 18,023 19,044 Australasia 12,470 8,083 Europe 2,138 1,932 Total continuing operations 48,852 42,693 Unallocated 3,397 3,393 52,249 46,086 Discontinued operations: North America 1,634 Total 52,249 47,720 Includes corporate assets not directly attributable to business segments.
184 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.07 At 31.12.06 Total liabilities Before tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Africa 631 388 North America 2,751 2,329 South America 1,203 923 Australasia 1,763 983 Europe 421 464 Total segmental liabilities continuing operations 6,769 5,087 Unallocated 589 774 7,358 5,861 Discontinued operations: North America 225 Total 7,358 6,086 Tax liabilities, interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Africa 1,272 789 North America 872 1,030 South America 3,261 4,083 Australasia 2,254 1,417 Europe 103 124 Total continuing operations 7,762 7,443 Unallocated 11,871 14,296 19,633 21,739 Discontinued operations: North America 303 Total 19,633 22,042 Total liabilities Africa 1,903 1,177 North America 3,623 3,359 South America 4,464 5,006 Australasia 4,017 2,400 Europe 524 588 Total continuing operations 14,531 12,530 Unallocated 12,460 15,070 26,991 27,600 Discontinued operations: North America 528 Total 26,991 28,128 These liabilities are included in Interestbearing loans and borrowings, convertible borrowings, deferred tax liabilities and Income taxes payable line items in the balance sheet.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m At 31.12.07 At 31.12.06 Net assets Before tax assets and liabilities, investment in associates, interest bearing loans and borrowings Africa 5,747 3,514 North America 6,952 7,262 South America 16,820 18,121 Australasia 10,657 7,054 Europe 1,714 1,460 Total segmental net assets continuing operations 41,890 37,411 Unallocated 2,808 2,617 44,698 40,028 Discontinued operations: North America 1,405 Total 44,698 41,433 Tax assets and liabilities, interest bearing loans and borrowings: Africa 1,268 787 North America 872 1,024 South America 3,261 4,083 Australasia 2,254 1,417 Europe 100 116 Total continuing operations 7,755 7,427 Unallocated 11,871 14,294 19,626 21,721 Discontinued operations: North America 299 Total 19,626 22,020 Investment in associates: Africa 4 2 North America 132 131 Australasia 50 46 Total continuing operations 186 179 Net assets Africa 4,483 2,729 North America 6,212 6,369 South America 13,559 14,038 Australasia 8,453 5,683 Europe 1,614 1,344 Total continuing operations 34,321 30,163 Unallocated 9,063 11,677 25,258 18,486 Discontinued operations: North America 1,106 Total 25,258 19,592 Includes corporate assets and liabilities not directly attributable to business segments.
186 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Segmental Analysis continued US$m 2007 2006 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Africa 184 99 North America 371 82 South America 264 105 Australasia 588 324 Europe 37 30 Total sustaining continuing operations 1,444 640 Unallocated 11 4 1,455 644 Discontinued operations: North America 12 18 Total 1,467 662 Expansionary: Africa 221 326 North America 311 79 South America 278 80 Australasia 585 439 Europe 22 23 Total expansionary continuing operations 1,417 947 Discontinued operations: North America 1 4 Total 1,418 951 Total: Africa 405 425 North America 682 161 South America 542 185 Australasia 1,173 763 Europe 59 53 Total continuing operations 2,861 1,587 Unallocated 11 4 2,872 1,591 Discontinued operations: North America 13 22 Total 2,885 1,613 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 187 9.
Segmental Analysis continued The average number of employees, which includes executive directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: 2007 2006 Africa 13,372 11,494 North America 7,190 2,603 South America 8,048 4,311 Australasia 7,462 6,897 Europe 1,523 1,692 Total continuing operations 37,595 26,997 Unallocated 103 76 37,698 27,073 Discontinued operations: North America 1,250 1,125 Total 38,948 28,198 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: Africa 7,789 7,621 North America 1,844 230 South America 7,980 3,795 Australasia 4,465 3,682 Europe 240 394 Total continuing operations 22,318 15,722 Unallocated 5 22,323 15,722 Discontinued operations: North America 178 160 Total 22,501 15,882 188 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Revenues and Expenses Revenue and expenses US$m 2007 2006 Revenue and expenses Continuing operations: Revenue sales of goods 28,542 17,102 Less cost of sales after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 17,582 9,677 Gross profit 10,960 7,425 Administrative expenses after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 744 2,358 Inventory recognised as an expense 17,582 9,677 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 27 33 Royalties paid 630 390 Research and development 6 4 Discontinued operations: Revenue sales of goods 542 530 Less cost of sales after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 437 421 Gross profit 105 109 Inventory recognised as an expense 437 421 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 1 1 Royalties paid 1 1 Depreciation and amortisation US$m 2007 2006 Depreciation and amortisation Continuing operations: Depreciation of owned assets 1,980 1,182 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 14 14 Total depreciation from continuing operations 1,994 1,196 Amortisation of intangible assets 102 23 Total depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations 2,096 1,219 Discontinued operations: Depreciation of owned assets 31 25 Total depreciation 2,127 1,244 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 189 10.
Revenues and Expenses continued Employee costs including directors emoluments refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 132 to 135 for details US$m 2007 2006 Continuing operations: Wages and salaries 2,088 1,123 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 34 193 111 Social security and other benefits 125 51 Share-based compensation plans refer to note 34 103 91 Employee costs from continuing operations 2,509 1,376 Discontinued operations: Wages and salaries 54 58 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 34 2 1 Employee costs from discontinued operations 56 59 Total employee costs 2,565 1,435 Auditors remuneration US$m 2007 2006 Auditors remuneration a : Group auditors UK 1 1 Group auditors overseas 10 11 11 12 Amounts paid to auditors for other work: Group auditors b Corporate finance transactions c 10 12 Taxation d 3 2 Other e 1 1 14 15 Other audit firms Internal audit 2 1 Other f 1 4 3 5 a The Group audit fee includes US$42,000 2006 US$40,000 in respect of the parent company.
b Included in other fees to auditors is US$1 million 2006 US$1 million relating to the Company and its UK subsidiaries.
c 2007 amounts relate to the 2007 acquisitions, other transactional opportunities reviewed by the Group and the ongoing integration of 2006 acquisitions.
2006 includes amounts incurred on the acquisitions of Cerrejn, Tintaya and Falconbridge.
Of this amount US$10 million has been capitalised as acquisition costs refer to note 7. d Includes corporate tax compliance and advisory services.
e Primarily relates to accounting advice and non-statutory assurance services.
f Includes tax advisory services, accounting assistance and acquisition due diligence.
190 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Revenues and Expenses continued The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 110 to 120 details the Group's policy with regard to the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors and the provision and approval of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Finance income US$m 2007 2006 Continuing operations: Bank interest 101 91 Dividends 4 3 Interest other 37 16 Finance income before exceptional items from continuing operations 142 110 Foreign currency gains on bank loans 120 Recycled gains from the foreign currency translation reserve 74 50 Exceptional finance income from continuing operations 74 170 Total finance income from continuing operations 216 280 Discontinued operations: Bank interest 2 2 Total finance income 218 282 Finance costs US$m 2007 2006 Continuing operations: Amortisation of loan issue costs 24 9 Convertible borrowings amortised cost charge 3 8 Discount unwinding 90 34 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 11 17 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 394 397 Interest on convertible borrowings and capital market notes 366 142 Interest on minority interest loans 6 6 Interest on preference shares 18 12 Interest other 23 14 Finance cost before exceptional items from continuing operations 935 639 Foreign currency losses on bank loans 34 129 Recycled losses from the foreign currency translation reserve 102 97 Loan issue costs written off on facility refinancing 60 9 Exceptional finance cost from continuing operations 196 235 Total finance cost from continuing operations 1,131 874 Discontinued operations: Discount unwinding 1 6 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 1 1 Total finance cost 1,133 881 These amounts relate to foreign currency gains and losses on non US$ borrowings, predominantly CAD borrowings.
Total interest income and expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets and liabilities not at fair value through the profit and loss are US$140 million 2006 US$109 million and US$819 million 2006 US$589 million respectively.
Revenues and Expenses continued Exceptional items Acquisition related activities In March 2007, the Group made a cash offer to purchase the entire share capital of LionOre Mining International Limited LionOre, a Canadian listed nickel and gold mining company.
In May 2007, OJSC MMC Norilsk Nickel announced a higher cash offer and on 1 June 2007, the Group announced it would not increase its offer price.
LionOre terminated the support agreement for the Groups offer and made a termination payment to the Group of CAD305 million US$284 million in June 2007.
The Group incurred acquisition costs of US$9 million in relation to the offer for LionOre.
The tax charge attributable to the termination payment and acquisition costs is US$52 million.
Disposal fair value adjustment Kagiso obligations During the year ended 31 December 2007, a charge of US$25 million has been recorded for an increase in the fair value of the liability recognised by the Group following the black empowerment disposal to Kagiso of an interest in the Mototolo joint venture refer to note 7 and note 28.
Restructuring and closure costs Restructuring and redundancy costs of US$nil 2006 US$50 million relate to the former Falconbridge Group following its acquisition.
Impairment of goodwill The acquisition of Falconbridge was completed in two stages.
The Group acquired 19.9% of Falconbridge at CAD28 per share in 2005, before acquiring the remaining 80.1% in 2006 at a price of CAD62.50 per share.
The average price paid per share for the 100% interest was CAD56.44.
The Groups ability to average the purchase price paid for the second tranche of shares over the full purchase provided the Group with a compelling competitive advantage and was a significant factor in the success of the transaction.
Under IFRS, this advantage cannot be recognised, as goodwill is calculated separately for each transaction, regardless of the average price paid per share to acquire the 100% interest.
This accounting treatment has resulted in the creation of additional goodwill of US$1,403 million.
During 2007, the Group has completed a detailed fair value assessment of the assets acquired and recognised goodwill of US$4,555 million, US$446 million more than was recorded at 31 December 2006.
As required by IFRS 3, all adjustments made in finalising the acquisition accounting have been presented as if the accounting had been completed on the acquisition date.
There was no other significant income statement impact arising as a result of finalising the acquisition accounting refer to note 7.
Profit on sale of available-for-sale financial assets US$m 2007 2006 Continuing operations: Unallocated 63 63 Listed shares were sold for a consideration of US$nil in 2007 2006 US$190 million.
192 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 10.
Revenues and Expenses continued Profit on sale of operations US$m 2007 2006 Continuing operations: Coal Australia 16 Discontinued operations: Aluminium 1 1 16 The aluminium business was sold on 18 May 2007 to Apollo Management LP.
The disposal proceeds amounted to US$1,150 million before disposal costs of US$24 million, realising a gain of US$1 million after tax refer to note 8.
On 19 October 2006, the Group disposed of its Cook coal operation in Australia to Caledon Resources Limited.
A gain of US$16 million was recognised on the disposal refer to note 8.
Income Taxes Income tax charge Significant components of income tax expense for the years ended: US$m 2007 2006 Consolidated income statement Current tax: Based on taxable income of the current year 2,183 1,386 Prior year over provision 14 Total current taxation charge for the year 2,169 1,386 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 276 144 Change in tax rates 91 6 Benefit from previously unrecognised tax losses, tax credits or temporary differences of a prior year that are used to reduce deferred tax expense 4 Prior year under provision 6 43 Total deferred taxation charge for the year 191 177 Total taxation charge 2,360 1,563 Total taxation charge reported in consolidated income statement 2,311 1,534 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 49 29 Total taxation charge 2,360 1,563 UK taxation included above: Current tax 10 2 Deferred tax 4 4 Total taxation charge credit 14 2 Recognised directly in equity Deferred tax: Available-for-sale financial assets 16 75 Cash flow hedges 15 16 Other equity classified items 6 44 Total taxation charge credit reported in equity 7 15 The amounts above include the tax charge attributable to exceptional items.
Income Taxes continued A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before income tax at the weighted average statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Group average effective income tax rate for the years ended is as follows: US$m 2007 2006 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 8,127 3,376 Profit before taxation from discontinued operations 102 93 Profit before taxation 8,229 3,469 At average statutory income tax rate 25.2% 2006 23.2% 2,075 803 Goodwill impairment 602 Additional mining and other taxes 239 72 Foreign currency gains and losses 156 67 Non-deductible expenses 81 30 Non-taxable capital gains 53 Rebatable dividends received 3 8 Research and development allowances 9 17 Resource and other allowances 25 22 Change in tax rates 91 6 Prior year under over provision 8 43 Other 2 1 At average effective income tax rate 2,360 1,563 Total taxation charge reported in consolidated income statement 2,311 1,534 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 49 29 At average effective income tax rate 2,360 1,563 The above reconciling items are disclosed at the tax rates that apply in the country where they have arisen.
The average statutory income tax rate is the average of the standard income tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries as included in the consolidated accounts.
The change in the average statutory income tax rate is due to the variation in the weight of subsidiaries profits, by various changes in the enacted standard income tax rates and due to the acquisition of subsidiaries in countries with different tax rates.
Deferred income taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
Unrecognised tax losses The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses that are available indefinitely of US$9 million 2006 US$8 million to carry forward against future taxable income of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time.
There are no other deductible temporary differences that have not been not recognised at balance sheet date.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2007, there was US$nil recognised deferred tax liability 2006 US$nil for taxes that would be payable on the un-remitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as: the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: the profits of the associates will not be distributed until they obtain the consent of the Group: and the investments are not held for resale and are expected to be recouped by continued use of these operations by the subsidiaries.
194 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Income Taxes continued The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$2,218 million 2006 US$2,608 million.
There are no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
The deferred tax assets liabilities included in the balance sheet are as follows: US$m 2007 2006 Tax losses 244 78 Derivative financial instruments 45 35 Employee provisions 75 65 Other provisions 244 235 Rehabilitation and closure 157 120 Accelerated depreciation 5,826 5,110 Coal export rights 260 253 Other intangibles 411 364 Government grants 14 13 Deferred stripping 83 49 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 7 Other equity-related items 36 3 Other 164 175 6,049 5,441 Represented on the face of the balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 7 22 Deferred tax liabilities 6,056 5,463 6,049 5,441 The deferred tax included in the Group income statement are as follows: US$m 2007 2006 Tax losses 185 112 Accelerated depreciation 360 96 Deferred stripping 27 17 Rehabilitation and closure 16 29 Other provisions 17 2 Other 12 28 From continuing operations 181 166 From discontinued operations 10 11 191 177 Tax audits The Company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Company recorded its best estimate of the tax liability, including related interest charges, in the current tax liability.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax laws.
Whilst management believes they have adequately provided for the probable outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved, or when the status of limitation lapses.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
Earnings Per Share US$m 2007 2006 Continuing operations: Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 5,372 3,286 Exceptional items from continuing operations 118 1,849 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 5,490 1,437 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 16 37 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 5,506 1,474 Total operations: Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 5,372 3,286 Exceptional items from continuing operations 118 1,849 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from continuing operations 5,490 1,437 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent from discontinued operations 53 64 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 5,543 1,501 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 16 37 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share 5,559 1,538 Weighted average number of shares 000 excluding own shares: For basic earnings per share 959,549 771,820 Effect of dilution: Free shares and share options 000 9,196 9,441 Convertible borrowings 17,418 50,294 For diluted earnings per share 986,163 831,555 Basic earnings per share US$ Continuing operations: before exceptional items 5.60 4.26 exceptional items 0.12 2.40 5.72 1.86 Discontinued operations: before exceptional items 0.06 0.08 exceptional items 0.06 0.08 Total: before exceptional items 5.66 4.34 exceptional items 0.12 2.40 5.78 1.94 Diluted earnings per share US$ Continuing operations: before exceptional items 5.47 3.99 exceptional items 0.12 2.22 5.59 1.77 Discontinued operations: before exceptional items 0.05 0.08 exceptional items 0.05 0.08 Total: before exceptional items 5.52 4.07 exceptional items 0.12 2.22 5.64 1.85 196 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.
Earnings Per Share continued Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year, excluding own shares.
Adjustments are made for continuing and discontinued operations and before exceptional items and after exceptional items as outlined above, to present a meaningful basis for analysis.
Diluted earnings per share is based on basic earnings per share adjusted for the potential dilution if director and employee free shares and share options are exercised and the convertible bonds are converted into ordinary shares.
An adjustment is also made to net profit for the interest in respect of the convertible borrowings and related hedging.
On 30 October 2006, 235,787,596 ordinary shares were issued under a rights issue which was structured as an issue of one new ordinary share at a price of GBP12.65 per share for every three existing ordinary shares held.
The theoretical ex-rights price for an ordinary share was GBP19.51.
The 2006 earnings per share have been calculated after applying a factor of 0.9 for the bonus element of the rights issue.
On 16 January 2008, 6,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP34.90 per share refer to note 26.
Dividends Paid and Proposed US$m 2007 2006 Declared and paid during the year: Final dividend for 2006: 30 cents per ordinary share 2005: 22.4 cents per ordinary share 290 159 Interim dividend for 2007: 16 cents per ordinary share 2006: 11.6 cents per ordinary share 153 92 443 251 Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability as at 31 December : Final dividend for 2007: 34 cents per ordinary share 2006: 30 cents per ordinary share 326 281 Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 will be paid on 16 May 2008.
The 2007 interim dividend was paid on 12 October 2007.
As stated in note 26, own shares held in the ESOP and by the ECMP have waived the right to receive dividends.
The dividends per share declared and paid prior to 30 October 2006 have been adjusted by the rights issue bonus adjustment factor of 0.9 refer to note 12.
Intangible Assets Hydro Export Technology Feed electricity US$m rights Goodwill patents contract rights Other 2007 At 1 January 2007 1,008 6,916 53 413 501 71 8,962 Acquisitions 589 589 Additions 3232 Reclassifications 5 5 Amortisation charge 32 3 54 13 102 Disposals refer to note 8 139 139 Translation adjustments 17 23 6 1 45 At 31 December 2007 993 7,389 56 359 501 84 9,382 At 1 January 2007: Cost 1,008 8,740 64 425 501 86 10,824 Accumulated amortisation 1,824 11 12 15 1,862 Net carrying amount 1,008 6,916 53 413 501 71 8,962 At 31 December 2007: Cost 1,026 9,213 72 425 501 112 11,349 Accumulated amortisation 33 1,824 16 66 28 1,967 Net carrying amount 993 7,389 56 359 501 84 9,382 Hydro Export Technology Feed electricity US$m rights Goodwill patents contract rights Other 2006 At 1 January 2006 1,130 229 53 18 1,430 Acquisitions 8,497 425 501 42 9,465 Additions 16 16 Amortisation charge 3 12 8 23 Disposals refer to note 7 26 26 Impairment charge 1,824 1,824 Translation adjustments 96 14 3 3 76 At 31 December 2006 1,008 6,916 53 413 501 71 8,962 At 1 January 2006: Cost 1,130 229 60 27 1,446 Accumulated amortisation 7 9 16 Net carrying amount 1,130 229 53 18 1,430 At 31 December 2006: Cost 1,008 8,740 64 425 501 86 10,824 Accumulated amortisation 1,824 11 12 15 1,862 Net carrying amount 1,008 6,916 53 413 501 71 8,962 Purchased as part of business combinations The Group has a 20.91% interest in the service organisation, Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited, acquired in a business combination, through which the shareholders gain access to export markets enabling them to realise higher coal sales prices than in the domestic market.
Previously, the directors regarded the right to export coal afforded by the interest in the terminal to have an indefinite life, as the operations utilising the terminal had appropriate reserves including undeveloped reserves to allow the use of the terminal for an indefinite period.
Further, the land on which the terminal operates is leased on a long-term basis and there has been a history of lease extensions.
As outlined in the 2006 financial statements, the directors reassessed whether it was appropriate to treat the export rights as an indefinite life intangible asset in light of the approval of the Goedgevonden Project and determined that it would be appropriate to begin amortisation in 2007 based on a units-ofproduction method.
198 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Intangible Assets continued The Group acquired the right to market to third parties various leading technologies for the mining, mineral processing and metals extraction industries, in a business combination.
The technology patents are amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years to June 2023.
The Group acquired hydroelectricity rights in connection with the acquisition of the Falconbridge Group refer to note 7.
These rights have been recorded at fair value and will be amortised over the expected life of the operation, currently estimated as being 40 years following the completion of construction.
A long-term feed contract acquired in connection with the acquisition of the Falconbridge Group refer to note 7 has been recorded at fair value at the date of the acquisition and is being amortised over an eight year period, being the remaining contract term at the date of the acquisition.
Other intangible assets mainly comprise computer software and software development that are being amortised over their useful economic lives of between 3 to 5 years.
The disposal of a portion of the export rights which occurred during 2006 was the result of the transaction with ARM refer to note 7.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles Export rights US$m 2007 2006 Coal export rights carrying value: Coal Africa 993 1,008 At 31 December 2006, the directors reassessed whether it was appropriate to continue treating the coal export rights of US$993 million 2006 US$1,008 million as an indefinite life intangible asset and determined that the asset would be amortised prospectively.
Consequently in 2007, amortisation of US$32 million was recorded in the income statement refer to note 6 and note 14.
During 2006, the coal export right was not amortised as the asset was deemed to have an indefinite life.
For the purpose of impairment testing this asset was allocated to the Coal Africa cash-generating unit and impairment testing was performed annually or whenever there was an indicator of impairment.
Impairment testing was performed at 31 December 2006 based on a value in use calculation.
Value in use was based on cash flows expected to be generated from mines that rely on the coal export rights.
Such cash flows were projected up to the date mining was expected to cease, based on managements expectation at that time.
This period depended on a number of variables including recoverable reserves and selling prices for production.
Cash flows were projected for a maximum of 36 years.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles continued Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 199 Goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to the following reportable segments, or when appropriate to a lower level of cash-generating unit, which are expected to benefit from the asset.
The carrying values of goodwill by cash generating unit are as follows: US$m 2007 2006 Coal Australia 163 Coal Colombia 464 464 Chrome Africa 47 46 Copper Americas 1,185 1,185 Copper South America 1,536 1,536 Copper Australasia 152 129 Nickel North America 856 856 Nickel South America 295 295 Nickel Africa 78 78 Nickel Australasia 34 32 Platinum Africa 399 Zinc Lead 1,546 1,546 Zinc Lead North America 244 244 Zinc Lead South America 160 160 Zinc Lead Australasia 8 7 Zinc Lead Europe 222 199 Aluminium North America 139 7,389 6,916 Net of 2006 impairment loss discussed below.
Restated for the revisions to the Falconbridge, Cerrejon and Tintaya acquisitions in 2006 refer to note 7.
The goodwill recognised in 2006 arose on the Cerrejn, Tintaya and Falconbridge acquisitions refer to note 7.
Goodwill has been restated from those numbers reported in 2006 as a result of the finalisation of the accounting relating to these acquisitions.
As outlined in note 7, the US$464 million goodwill recognised on the Cerrejn acquisition and the US$133 million recognised Tintaya acquisition, relate to the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
US$7,900 million goodwill was recognised on the Falconbridge acquisition refer to note 7.
Of this amount, US$3,345 million relates to the requirement to create a deferred tax liability, whilst US$4,555 million relates to goodwill recognised on the acquisition of 80.1% of the company in 2006.
The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and when there are indicators of impairment.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 October 2007.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
2007 Testing For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, except for the testing of US$1,546 million allocated to the Zinc Lead reportable segment, recoverable amounts have been determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use are based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the cashgenerating units or reportable segments.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date mining and refining is expected to cease based managements expectations at the time of completing the testing.
This date depended on a number of variables, including recoverable reserves and resources, the forecast selling prices for such production and the treatment charges received from the refining operations.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 26 years.
200 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles continued For the goodwill allocated to the Zinc Lead segment recoverable amount was determined based on fair value less cost to sell.
As observable market prices are not available, this was calculated using discounted cash flow methodology taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations and in determining the fair value less cost to sell of the Zinc Lead segment are: recoverable reserves and resources: commodity prices: treatment charges receivable by smelting and refining operations: and discount rates.
As outlined above, economically recoverable reserves and resources are based on managements expectations at the time of completing the testing, based on the availability of reserves at mine sites and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons.
Long term commodity prices and treatment charges are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Specific prices are determined from information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long term market expectations.
The discount rates that are utilised for significant balances are outlined below, and represent the nominal pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit or reportable segment for which cash flows had not been adjusted.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
These rates were calculated with reference to information from third party advisors.
US$m 2007 Copper Americas 17.2% Zinc Lead Europe 13.6% Chrome Africa 11.1% Zinc Lead 13.3% In assessing the fair value less costs to sell of the Zinc Lead segment another key assumption that would be considered by market participants, is foreign exchange rates.
These rates are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Specific rates are determined from information available in the market after considering long-term market expectations and the countries in which the Group operates.
There was no impairment expense recorded in 2007 and the directors are of the view that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in an impairment expense being recognised.
2006 Testing For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, recoverable amounts were determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use was based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the cash-generating units or reportable segments.
Cash flows were projected for periods up to the date mining and refining was expected to cease based managements expectations at the time of completing the testing.
Cash flows were projected for a maximum of 21 years.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for goodwill and the export right asset were consistent with those outlined above, and used in 2007.
Management determined the value of the assumptions in the same manner, specifically, by considering economically recoverable reserves and resources and market consensus prices.
The discount rates that were utilised are outlined below, and represent the nominal pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit or reportable segment for which cash flows had not been adjusted.
These rates were based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
Impairment Testing Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles continued 2006 Coal South Africa 10.2% Chrome Africa 11.1% Copper Americas 17.2% Zinc Lead 13.3% Zinc Lead Europe 13.6% Impairment losses The impairment losses recognised as an exceptional item in the 2006 income statement relates to the following: US$m 2006 Goodwill: Copper Americas 792 Zinc Lead 1,032 1,824 The acquisition of Falconbridge was completed in two stages.
Xstrata acquired 19.9% of Falconbridge at CAD28 per share in 2005, before acquiring the remaining 80.1% in 2006 at a price of CAD62.50 per share.
Xstratas ability to average the purchase price paid for the second tranche of shares over the full purchase provided Xstrata with a compelling competitive advantage and was a significant factor in the success of the transaction.
Under IFRS, this advantage cannot be recognised, as goodwill is calculated separately for each transaction.
This accounting treatment resulted in the creation of additional goodwill of US$1,403 million.
Xstrata completed a detailed fair value assessment of the assets acquired and, in accordance with IFRS, tested goodwill for impairment.
As a consequence, the Company recorded an impairment charge of US$1,824 million in 2006 refer to note 7 and note 10 for further details.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions As a result of the impairment expense above, the goodwill allocated to Copper Americas and Zinc Lead, was recorded at its recoverable amount at 31 December 2006 and therefore any adverse changes in key assumptions would have caused a further impairment loss to be recognised.
These key assumptions are discussed below: Recoverable reserves and resources The total recoverable reserve was 1,680 million tonnes of ore, and resource was 1,279 million tonnes of ore for Copper Americas.
The total recoverable reserve was 180 million tonnes of ore, and resource was 563 million tonnes of ore for Zinc Lead.
As outlined above this was based on managements estimate, using appropriate exploration and evaluation techniques.
Commodity prices In performing the value in use calculation for Copper Americas commodity prices were based on external market consensus forecasts.
The copper prices ranged from US$1.00 per pound to US$3.28 per pound varying in accordance with the year the sale was expected to occur.
Treatment charges received from smelting and refining In performing the value in use calculation for Zinc Lead treatment charges were estimated to be in the range of US$150 per tonne to US$250 per tonne for zinc and US$110 per tonne for lead refining fees, based on the year of processing.
As outlined above, these prices were based on external market consensus forecasts.
Commodity prices In performing the value in use calculation for Zinc Lead commodity prices were based on external market consensus forecasts.
The prices ranged from US$1,124 per tonne to US$3,241 per tonne for zinc and US$639 per tonne to US$1,146 per tonne for lead, varying in accordance with the year the sale was expected to occur.
202 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 16.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued Land and buildings include non-depreciating freehold land amounting to US$363 million 2006 US$214 million.
Mining properties and leases at 31 December 2007 include deferred stripping costs of US$432 million 2006 US$304 million.
US$165 million 2006 US$89 million of deferred stripping costs were capitalised during the year.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2007 is US$125 million 2006 US$236 million.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance leases and hire purchase liabilities.
The carrying value of other property, plant and equipment pledged as security is US$nil 2006 US$nil.
US$nil 2006 US$nil of interest was capitalised during the year and there is US$nil 2006 US$nil of capitalised interest within property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2007.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2007 that is temporarily idle is US$nil million 2006 US$36 million.
The Group has made commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totalling US$532 million at 31 December 2007 2006 US$227 million.
Biological Assets US$m 2007 2006 At 1 January 15 13 Net gain from fair value less estimated selling cost adjustments 2 1 Translation adjustments 2 1 At 31 December 19 15 Biological assets are stated at fair value less estimated selling costs, which has been determined based on independent valuations as at 31 December 2007 and 2006, on the basis of open market value, supported by market evidence.
Inventories US$m 2007 2006 Current: Raw materials and consumables 1,451 1,294 Work in progress 1,763 1,376 Finished goods 953 869 4,167 3,539 Non-current: Work in progress 17 75 17 75 Non-current inventories comprises long-term ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
204 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Trade and Other Receivables US$m 2007 2006 Current: Trade debtors 2,451 2,380 Advances 189 115 Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 31 6 5 Recoverable sales tax 290 282 Other debtors 31 47 2,967 2,829 Non-current: Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 31 38 25 Recoverable sales tax 5 25 Other debtors 42 34 85 84 20.
Investment in Associates The Group has interests in coal terminals, through which it gains access to export markets and a 25% interest in the Noranda Income Fund which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Noranda Income Fund is listed on the Toronto stock exchange and the fair value of the Groups investment was US$122 million at 31 December 2007 2006 US$106 million.
The companies which own the coal terminals are not listed so there is no published quoted price for the fair value of these investments.
The reporting dates for all associates is the same as for the Group, being 31 December.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the above associates: US$m 2007 2006 Share of associates balance sheet: Non-current assets 256 230 Current assets 83 93 Total assets 339 323 Non-current liabilities 113 88 Current liabilities 40 56 Total liabilities 153 144 Net assets 186 179 Carrying amount of the investment 186 179 Share of associates revenue and profit: Revenue 265 116 EBITDA 23 6 EBIT 15 2 Net interest paid 1 2 Income tax expense 1 Profit for the year 15 4 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 205 21.
Interests in Joint Venture Entities The Group has various interests in jointly controlled entities, operations and assets as outlined in note 35.
These interests are accounted for in the manner outlined in note 6.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups jointly controlled entities in Africa and South America: US$m 2007 2006 Share of joint ventures balance sheets: Non-current assets 9,950 10,558 Current assets 690 616 Total assets 10,640 11,174 Non-current liabilities 2,121 2,578 Current liabilities 336 663 Total liabilities 2,457 3,241 Net assets 8,183 7,933 Net assets consolidated 8,183 7,933 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 2,450 1,063 Cost of sales before depreciation and amortisation 310 273 Distribution costs 129 62 Administration expenses before depreciation and amortisation 54 21 EBITDA 1,957 707 Depreciation and amortisation 370 175 EBIT 1,587 532 Finance income 8 6 Finance costs 22 14 Profit before tax 1,573 524 Income tax expense 431 164 Profit for the year 1,142 360 These figures have been restated due to the finalisation of the 2006 acquisition accounting refer note 7.
Available-for-sale Financial Assets US$m 2007 2006 At fair value: Shares listed 87 58 Shares unlisted 26 22 Royalty contract 90 90 203 170 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of a long-term royalty income contract and investments in listed and unlisted ordinary shares that have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
These investments are held for strategic purposes.
In 2007 and 2006, the listed shares related to companies in the mining industry.
The listed shares are carried at fair value.
Unlisted shares mainly comprise interests in ports in Australia used to export coal and are carried at fair value.
206 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Derivative Financial Assets US$m 2007 2006 Current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 1 9 Fair value interest rate swap hedges 4 Other commodity derivatives 3 2 Other foreign currency derivatives 81 89 11 Non-current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 112 1 Fair value interest rate swap hedges 98 8 Other foreign currency derivatives 48 210 57 Total 299 68 24.
Other Financial Assets US$m 2007 2006 Current: At amortised cost: Loans to joint venture partners 54 Security deposits 2 54 2 Non-current: At fair value: Rehabilitation trust fund 43 36 Other 34 49 77 85 At amortised cost: Loans to joint venture partners 21 98 98 183 Total 152 185 Loans to joint venture partners A loan to Merafe was made on establishment of the Chrome Pooling and Sharing Venture PSV.
At 31 December 2007, US$21 million 2006 US$21 million was subject to a floating interest rate based on South African prime rates.
This loan is secured by the Groups ability to acquire Merafes PSV assets at fair value in the event of default.
A loan was made to African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM on establishment of ARM Coal.
At 31 December 2007, US$54 million 2006 US$56 million was subject to a floating interest rate based on South African prime rates.
This loan is secured by the Groups ability to acquire ARM Coal assets at fair value in the event of default.
A loan has been made to Barrick Gold Corporation for the Kabanga joint venture.
At 31 December 2007, US$nil 2006 US$21 million was interest free.
This loan is secured by the Groups ability to acquire Kabangas assets at fair value in the event of default.
Other Financial Assets continued Rehabilitation trust fund The rehabilitation trust fund in South Africa receives cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liability relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Amounts are paid out from the trust fund following completion and approval of the rehabilitation work by the South African Department of Minerals and Energy.
The contributions to the trust fund are placed with investment banks who are responsible for making investments in equity and money market instruments.
The trust fund is to be used according to the terms of the trust deed and the assets are not available for the general purpose of the Group.
The trust fund is carried at fair value.
Cash and Cash Equivalents US$m 2007 2006 Cash at bank and in hand 487 622 Short-term deposits 661 1,238 1,148 1,860 The majority of cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates of interest with a limited amount at fixed rates of interest or interest free.
Short-term deposits are made at call and for less than one week, dependent on the short-term cash requirements of the Group and earn interest based on the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 approximates carrying value.
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: US$m 2007 2006 Cash at bank and in hand 487 622 Short-term deposits 661 1,238 Bank overdrafts refer to note 28 79 143 1,069 1,717 During the year, the Group entered into new finance leases and hire purchase contracts to purchase various items of plant and equipment for US$26 million 2006 US$nil, issued shares from the conversion of the convertible borrowings and issued shares to the ESOP for a market value of US$185 million 2006 US$98 million which did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents and are not included in the net cash flow used in investing and financing activities in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
208 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Capital and Reserves US$m Authorised: 875,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2006 438 14,234,948,397 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each increase on 30 June 2006 7,117 15,109,948,397 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2006 7,555 13,609,948,397 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each cancellation 6,805 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2007 750 50,000 deferred shares of GBP1.00 each as at 31 December 2006 and at 31 December 2007 1 special voting share of US$0.50 as at 31 December 2006 and as at 31 December 2007 750 Issued, called up and fully paid: 632,502,416 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2006 316 3,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 28 March 2006 to the ESOP 1 32,543,344 ordinary shares issued on 22 May 2006 to institutional investors 16 235,787,596 ordinary shares issued on 30 October 2006 from a shareholder rights issue 118 39,317,027 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds to 31 December 2006 20 943,150,383 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2006 471 4,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 31 January 2007 to the ESOP 2 24,516,537 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds to 31 December 2007 12 971,666,920 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2007 485 Share Premium: As at 1 January 2006 2,500 3,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 27 March 2006 to the ESOP 97 32,543,344 ordinary shares issued on 22 May 2006 to institutional investors 1,236 235,787,596 ordinary shares issued on 30 October 2006 from a shareholder rights issue 5,314 39,317,027 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds to 31 December 2006 375 At 31 December 2006 9,522 4,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 31 January 2007 to the ESOP 183 24,516,537 ordinary shares issued on the exercise of convertible bonds to 31 December 2007 194 As at 31 December 2007 9,899 Own shares: 33,054,864 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2006 616 29,450,976 ordinary shares disposed by the ECMP during the year 572 428,053 ordinary shares purchased during the year 11 3,000,000 ordinary shares purchased on 28 March 2006 by the ESOP 98 1,611,519 ordinary shares purchased from shareholder rights issue on 30 October 2006 38 2,469,713 ordinary shares disposed by the ESOP during the year 37 6,173,747 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2006 154 4,000,000 ordinary shares purchased on 31 January 2007 by the ESOP 185 9,310,000 ordinary shares purchased in the ECMP during the year 518 291,585 ordinary shares purchased during the year 14 6,618,641 ordinary shares disposed during the year 220 13,156,691 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2007 651 Details in respect of the various classes of shares are outlined in the Directors Report on pages 103 to 106.
Capital and Reserves continued Issue of ordinary shares During March 2006, 3,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP18.72 per share.
On 22 May 2006, 32,543,344 shares were issued to institutional investors at a market price of GBP21.00 per share.
The net proceeds from the rights issue was US$5,432 million after US$186 million of capital raising costs and the number of shares in issue of Xstrata plc following the completion of the rights issue was 943,150,383.
On 31 January 2007, 4,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP23.58 per share.
During 2006, 64.3% of the US$600 million of convertible bonds were converted at the option of the holders into 39,317,027 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc.
During 2007, the remainder of the US$600 million convertible bonds issued by Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV were converted at the option of the holders into 24,516,537 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc.
As a result of this conversion, 100% of the bond has been now converted refer to note 29.
On 16 January 2008, 6,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP34.90 per share.
Own shares Own shares comprise shares of Xstrata plc held in the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP and shares held by Batiss Investments Batiss for the Equity Capital Management Programme ECMP.
The shares acquired by the ESOP are either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The ESOP is used to co-ordinate the funding and manage the delivery of ordinary shares for options and free share awards under the Groups employee award schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP is permitted to place the shares back into the market and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
At 31 December 2007, 3,846,691 2006: 6,173,747 shares, equivalent to 0.4% 2006: 0.7% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$133 million 2006 US$154 million and market value of US$271 million 2006 US$308 million.
The trust has waived the right to receive dividends from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
The shares acquired from the stock market by Batiss and held for the ECMP are used by the Group as a source of financing for future acquisitions, or placed back into the market.
The decision as to when to place the shares in the market, use the shares to assist the Group in facilitating future transactions, or to repurchase shares for cancellation, is considered in light of the Groups funding requirements and capital structure.
Batiss is not permitted to hold more than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
Batiss has entered into an option agreement with Xstrata Capital Corporation A. V. V. Xstrata Capital, a wholly owned subsidiary within the Xstrata Group, whereby Batiss has granted to Xstrata Capital a right to require Batiss to sell the purchased Xstrata shares to a third party other than a subsidiary of Xstrata plc, as nominated by Xstrata Capital, at an exercise price of 1p per share.
Under the option agreement, Xstrata Capital pays Batiss a premium for this right, the premium being the equivalent of the market price paid by Batiss for the shares plus associated costs less the 1p exercise price.
This premium payment, together with funds from a subscription by Xstrata Capital for non-voting redeemable preference shares in Batiss, provides the funding for Batiss to acquire the shares in the market.
These payments are sourced from the existing and future cash resources of Xstrata Capital.
Xstrata Capital is able to exercise its right under the option agreement for a period of six years from the date of each purchase, but has not chosen to do so in either 2007 or 2006.
Batiss has waived its right to receive dividends on the shares which it holds.
At 31 December 2007, 9,310,000 2006: nil shares, equivalent to 1.0% 2006 nil% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$518 million 2006 US$nil and market value of US$656 million 2006 US$nil.
In 2006, the shares held at 31 December 2005 were used as a source of funding for the Cerrejn acquisition refer to note 7.
210 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Capital and Reserves continued Consolidated changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the parent Convertible borrowings Issued Share Own equity Other Retained Minority Total US$m capital premium shares component reserves earnings Total interests equity At 1 January 2007 471 9,522 154 78 4,472 4,057 18,446 1,146 19,592 Recognised income and expenses 595 5,472 6,067 326 6,393 Issue of share capital 14 377 185 22 184 184 Own share purchases 532 532 532 Own share disposals 220 164 56 56 Cost of IFRS 2 equity-settled share-based compensation plans 62 62 62 Acquisition of subsidiaries 429 429 Capital injection 180 180 Redemption of minority interests 12 12 10 22 Dividends paid 443 443 485 928 Loan reclassification 156 156 At 31 December 2007 485 9,899 651 56 5,055 8,984 23,828 1,430 25,258 Consolidated changes in equity Attributable to equity holders of the parent Convertible borrowings Issued Share Own equity Other Retained Minority Total US$m capital premium shares component reserves earnings Total interests equity At 1 January 2006 316 2,500 616 119 3,054 2,192 7,565 572 8,137 Recognised income and expenses 1,418 1,549 2,967 405 3,372 Issue of share capital 155 7,022 136 41 7,000 7,000 Own share purchases 11 11 11 Own share disposals 609 525 1,134 1,134 Cost of IFRS 2 equity-settled share-based compensation plans 42 42 42 Acquisition of subsidiaries 471 471 Redemption of minority interests 95 95 Dividends paid 251 251 207 458 At 31 December 2006 471 9,522 154 78 4,472 4,057 18,446 1,146 19,592 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 211 26.
Capital and Reserves continued Other reserves Net Foreign Revaluation Other unrealised currency US$m reserves reserves gains losses translation Total At 1 January 2006 1,241 194 1,619 3,054 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 1,418 1,418 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,892 1,892 Losses on cash flow hedges 78 78 Realised gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 63 63 Reversal of revaluation surplus on available-for-sale financial assets 2,205 2,205 Realised losses on cash flow hedges 125 125 Recycled foreign currency translation net losses 47 47 Foreign currency translation differences 5 249 244 Deferred tax 59 21 38 At 31 December 2006 1,418 1,241 81 1,894 4,472 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 22 22 Available-for-sale financial assets 49 49 Losses on cash flow hedges 261 261 Realised losses on cash flow hedges 121 121 Recycled foreign currency translation net losses 28 28 Redemption of minority interests 12 12 Foreign currency translation differences 2 672 670 Deferred tax 1 33 34 At 31 December 2007 1,440 1,229 175 2,561 5,055 Realised losses of US$121 million 2006 US$125 million are included in Revenue in the Income Statement.
Relates to gains made on the Groups investment in Falconbridge whilst the investment was treated as an available-for-sale financial asset.
In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, on obtaining control of Falconbridge, the unrealised gains have been reversed and the acquisition accounting in note 7 was adopted.
Revaluation reserves This reserve principally records the re-measurement from cost of the 19.9% interest held in Falconbridge at 31 December 2005, to the fair value of 19.9% of the identifiable net assets of Falconbridge on 15 August 2006, the date the Group obtained control of Falconbridge refer to note 7.
Other reserves This reserve principally originated during 2002 from the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc US$279 million and the issue of shares from the acquisition of the Duiker and Enex Groups of US$935 million.
Net unrealised gains losses reserve This reserve records the re-measurement of available-for-sale financial assets to fair value refer to note 22 and the effective portion of the gain or loss on cash flow hedging contracts refer to notes 23, 30 and 36.
Deferred tax is provided on the re-measurement at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted.
Foreign currency translation reserve This is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the exchange differences from the translation of quasi equity inter-company loans in foreign operations.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity or repayment of a quasi equity loan, the deferred accumulated amount recognised in this reserve is transferred to the income statement.
212 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Capital and Reserves continued Minority Interest Minority interest movements in 2007 relate to the acquisition of Eland refer note 7, a capital injection to Konimabo Nickel SAS, and the reclassification of a portion of the Koniambo Nickel SAS minority interest to liabilities in accordance with IFRS.
Significant movements in 2006 relate to minorities arising as part of the Falconbridge acquisition refer note 7.
Capital Management The capital of Xstrata plc is the total equity on the Groups balance sheet.
The objective of the Companys capital management is to grow and manage a diversified portfolio of metals and mining businesses with the aim of delivering industry-leading returns for its shareholders.
The management of the Groups capital is performed by the Board of Directors.
There are no externally imposed capital requirements.
Trade and Other Payables US$m 2007 2006 Current: Trade payables 2,429 2,290 Sundry payables 426 326 Interest payable 69 23 Accruals and other payables 821 486 3,745 3,125 Non-current: Accruals and other payables 54 95 54 95 Total 3,799 3,220 All current payables are expected to be settled in the next 12 months and non-current payables are expected to be settled over a weighted average life of 13 years 2006: 13 years.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings US$m 2007 2006 Current: At amortised cost: Bank overdrafts 79 143 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 1,656 Syndicated bank loans revolving loan facilities unsecured 481 Bank loans other unsecured 41 39 Capital market notes 350 5 Preference shares 149 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts i 18 147 1,118 1,990 Non-current: At amortised cost: Syndicated bank loans unsecured 4,265 7,365 Bank loans other unsecured 264 318 Capital market notes 6,338 4,617 Minority interest loans 81 81 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts i 114 95 Preference shares 199 304 Other loans 417 166 11,678 12,946 Non-current: At amortised cost: Convertible borrowings refer note 29 327 525 Total 13,123 15,461 Less cash and cash equivalents refer note 25 1,148 1,860 Net debt 11,975 13,601 Net debt is defined as loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents.
Secured over specific items of plant and equipment refer to note 16.
New Facilities in 2007 The Xstrata Group has entered into the bank loans as described below: Syndicated Bank loans On 25 July 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$4,680 million revolving syndicated loan facility Syndicated Facilities Agreement.
On 31 July 2007, the Group drew down US$4,087 million under the Syndicated Facilities Agreement and used these proceeds to repay in full the amounts outstanding under the Acquisition Facilities.
Subsequent draw downs have been made to partly fund the acquisitions of Anvil Hill, Austral Coal Limited and Eland Platinum Holdings Limited.
A portion of these draw downs were repaid prior to 31 December 2007 through the cash flows of the Group.
Interest is payable on the loans at a rate which is based on LIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 27.5 basis points per annum.
Revolving Loan Facilities On 8 October 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$2,000 million 364 day Revolving Loan Facility.
Draw downs have been made to partly fund the acquisitions of Anvil Hill, Austral Coal Limited and Eland Platinum Holdings Limited.
Interest is payable on the loans at a rate which is the aggregate of LIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 27.5 basis points per annum.
On 6 December 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$1,500 million 364 day Revolving Loan Facility.
214 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings Repaid Facilities In connection with the Falconbridge Acquisition in August 2006, Xstrata plc and certain subsidiaries of the Group entered into the Acquisition Facilities Agreement, the Debt Bridge Facility Agreement and the Equity Bridge Facility Agreement.
The purpose of these agreements was to meet the financing requirements of the Falconbridge Offer and to subsequently act as the Groups principal bank facilities following the Falconbridge acquisition.
The Acquisition Facilities Agreement was a US$9,500 million committed multi-currency syndicated loan with facilities which consisted of: i a 36-month term loan facility for US$3,353 million: ii a 60-month-and-one-day term loan facility for US$1,117 million: iii a 60-month revolving loan facility for US$3,353 million: and iv a 364-day term loan facility for US$1,677 million with the ability to extend by 364 days.
Interest was payable on the loans at a rate which was based on the London interbank offered rate LIBOR plus the relevant margins, which were initially between 50 and 70 basis points per annum.
The Group was liable to pay a commitment fee on the un-drawn portion of the syndicated loan facility at a rate per annum equal to 35% of the applicable margin payable on the three and five year tranches and 30% of the applicable margin on the 364-day tranche.
This facility was fully repaid in July 2007 using the US$4,680 million Syndicated Loan described and defined above.
The Debt Bridge Facility Agreement consisted of a six-month term loan facility for US$2,500 million with the ability to extend by 364 days.
Interest was payable on the loans at a rate which was based on LIBOR plus 40 basis points per annum.
This facility was fully repaid in November 2006.
The Equity Bridge Facility Agreement was a term loan facility for US$7,000 million which was fully repaid in November 2006.
Interest was payable on the loan at a rate which was based on LIBOR plus 40 basis points per annum.
On 18 August 2005, Xstrata plc and certain subsidiary undertakings of the Group, entered into a US$600 million 364-day fully drawn advance loan facility.
The interest payable on the term loan was at a rate based on LIBOR plus 40 basis points per annum.
This facility was re-financed during 2006.
On 8 May 2006, the Group entered into a US$2,500 million committed multi-currency 364-day loan facility to partly finance the Cerrejon and Tintaya acquisitions refer to note 7.
The interest payable on the loan was based on LIBOR plus 40 basis points per annum.
The Group was liable to pay a commitment fee on the un-drawn portion of the facility at a rate per annum equal to 25% on the applicable margin, payable quarterly in arrears.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings continued Capital Market Notes As at 31 December 2007, other unsecured private placements included: Fixed or Effective Effective floating interest interest At 31 Dec 07 interest rate % At 31 Dec 06 rate % Facility Denomination US$m rate in 2007 Maturity US$m in 2006 a Series A senior unsecured notes US$ 152 Fixed 5.90 Jun 08 150 5.90 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 53 Fixed 6.75 Jun 11 50 6.75 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 53 Fixed 7.00 Jun 11 50 7.00 b Unsecured notes US$ 499 Floating 5.75 Nov 09 498 5.72 b Unsecured notes US$ 771 Fixed 5.50 Nov 11 746 5.50 b Unsecured notes US$ 1,024 Fixed 5.80 Nov 16 996 5.80 c Unsecured notes EUR 741 Fixed 4.88 Jun 12 c Unsecured notes EUR 738 Fixed 5.25 Jun 17 d Unsecured notes US$ 495 Fixed 6.90 Nov 37 e Senior debentures CAD 184 Fixed 4.89 Dec 08 155 4.89 e Senior debentures US$ 329 Fixed 6.03 Feb 11 328 6.03 e Senior debentures US$ 270 Fixed 5.88 Jun 12 266 5.88 e Senior debentures US$ 314 Fixed 6.06 Jul 12 317 6.06 e Senior debentures US$ 348 Fixed 6.34 Oct 15 354 6.34 e Senior debentures US$ 248 Fixed 6.16 Jun 15 246 6.16 e Senior debentures US$ 236 Fixed 6.39 Jun 17 234 6.39 e Senior debentures US$ 233 Fixed 6.77 Jun 35 232 6.77 6,688 4,622 a An Australian subsidiary has designated the series A and B senior unsecured notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in South America refer to note 36.
The hedge is being used to reduce exposure to foreign currency risk.
b In November 2006, the Group issued US$2,250 million of guaranteed capital market notes to refinance existing debt facilities.
The notes are comprised of three tranches, a US$1,000 million ten-year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.8%, a US$750 million five year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.5% and a US$500 million three year note that bears interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 35 basis points.
c In June 2007, the Group issued a two-tranche EUR1,000 million guaranteed bond offering, comprising EUR500 million 4.875% fixed guaranteed notes due 2012 and EUR500 million 5.25% fixed guaranteed notes due 2017.
These bonds have been swapped to US$.
The swaps have been accounted for as cash flow hedges with an unrealised gain of US$112 million 2006 US$nil at 31 December 2007 refer to note 36. d In November 2007, the Group issued guaranteed 30 year notes of US$500 million bearing interest at a fixed rate of 6.9%.
e The guaranteed senior debentures were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge refer to note 7.
Pursuant to the terms of the note indentures as amended by supplemental indentures, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the senior debentures the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Xstrata Canada Incorporated to such holders under the terms of the senior debentures.
A portion of the fixed interest rate of the Unsecured notes Senior debentures has been swapped to a floating rate.
The swaps have been accounted for as fair value hedges with an unrealised gain of US$102 million 2006 US$11 million loss at 31 December 2007 refer to note 36.
There has been no significant impact on income in 2007 or 2006 as a result of hedge ineffectiveness.
216 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings continued Preference shares As at 31 December 2007, unsecured preference shares included: Fixed or Effective floating Interest At 31 Dec 07 interest Interest At 31 Dec 06 rate % Facility Denomination US$m rate rate % Maturity US$m in 2006 Preference shares series 2 CAD 120 Floating 5.88 Jun 12 103 5.10 Preference shares series 3 CAD 79 Fixed 4.58 Mar 09 67 4.58 Preference shares series H CAD 149 Fixed 6.50 Mar 08 134 6.50 348 304 Holders of Preference shares series 2 have the right to convert their shares into Preference shares series 3 in March 2009, subject to certain conditions.
The preference shares were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge refer to note 7.
At the acquisition date, Falconbridge had additional preference shares outstanding.
The Group completed the redemption of all of the outstanding preferred shares, series F and series G and preferred shares series 1 for an aggregate cash consideration of CAD306 million US$270 million in November 2006.
Following the completion of the preferred share redemption, the Toronto Stock Exchange halted trading in and fide-listed the series F shares and the series G shares.
Pursuant to the terms of a guarantee indenture, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the preference shares the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Xstrata Canada Incorporated to such holders under the terms of the preference shares.
The preference shares are classified within interest bearing loans and borrowings because in the majority of cases the cumulative dividends must be paid for an indefinite period and or the shares are transferable into a variable number of equity instruments.
Bank Loans other unsecured Other bank loans includes: Debts of proportionally consolidated joint ventures of US$139 million 2006 US$139 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 175 basis points, repayable in August 2011 and US$163 million 2006 US$201 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 31 basis points, repayable by December 2011: US$nil 2006 US$13 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 85 basis points: and ZAR denominated borrowings of US$3 million 2006 US$4 million that are subject to floating interest rates based on Johannesburg inter bank acceptance rate JIBAR with an average floating interest rate of 10.7% per annum during 2007 2006: 9.0% per annum, repayable by January 2010.
Bank overdrafts unsecured Xstrata Group has bank overdrafts that are subject to local and US$ prime floating interest rates in which they have been drawn down.
The majority of the bank overdrafts are denominated in Canadian and United States dollars.
Minority Interest Loans Minority interest loans includes US$81 million 2006: US$81 million advanced to Minera Alumbrera Limited to fund operations that is subject to a fixed rate of 7.2% per annum 2006: 7.2% per annum, repayable by May 2012.
Interest-bearing Loans and Borrowings continued Other Loans Other loans includes: ZAR denominated loans of US$152 million 2006 US$135 million payable to ARM Coal refer note 7.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not callable within 12 months: US$ denominated loans of US$156 million 2006 US$nil payable to Socit Minire du Sud Pacifique for the Koniambo nickel project.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not payable within 12 months: AUD denominated loans of US$54 million 2006 US$nil payable to Western Mining Corporation Resources International Limited and Indophil Resources Limited for the Tampakan copper project refer note 7.
The loan is subject to a fixed rate of interest of 4%, payable quarterly with no fixed repayment date and is not payable within 12 months: AUD denominated loans of US$167 million, assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Austral refer to note 7, were repaid during 2007.
ZAR denominated loans of US$43 million 2006 US$27 million payable to Kagiso Trust Investments for the Mototolo project in South Africa refer to note 7.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not payable within 12 months: and Loans of US$12 million and US$1 million are subject to a fixed rate of 5.0% per annum and US$11 million is interest free.
Convertible Borrowings US$m 2007 2006 Convertible bonds 201 Convertible bond 327 324 327 525 Convertible Bonds On 15 August 2003, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued US$600 million of Convertible Bonds due 15 August 2010 convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The Convertible Bonds were guaranteed by the Company and were issued at par and bore a coupon of 3.95% per annum.
On issue, they were convertible at any time after 26 September 2003 at the option of the holder into 61,180,977 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP6.10 US$9.81 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, a 39.6% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on 1 August 2003.
During 2006, 64.3% of the US$600 million of convertible bonds was converted by the holders refer to note 26.
Following the conversions that occurred during 2006 and rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26, the remaining number of ordinary shares that could be issued under the bond at 31 December 2006 was 24,516,537 and as a result of the rights issue the conversion price was adjusted to GBP5.44 US$8.75 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
During 2007, the remainder of the bond was converted at the option of the holder.
As a result of this conversion, 100% of the bond has now converted.
218 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Convertible Borrowings continued On 6 September 2005, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued a US$375 million Convertible Debenture to Brookfield, due 14 August 2017, convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The Convertible Debenture was guaranteed by the Company and was issued at par, with a coupon of 4.0% per annum.
On issue it was convertible at any time on or after 14 August 2006 at the option of the holder into 12,100,332 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP17.13 US$30.99 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, representing a 35% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on 11 August 2005.
Following the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26, the total number of ordinary shares that could have been converted was increased to 13,575,432 and the conversion price was adjusted to GBP15.27 US$27.62 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
On the giving of not less than 30 days notice, the Convertible Debenture could have been called by the Group at par plus accrued interest, at any time after 14 August 2010.
Unless previously converted, redeemed or cancelled, the 2017 Convertible Debenture was redeemable on 14 August 2017 at its principal amount plus unpaid accrued interest.
On 13 October 2006, the Convertible Debenture was cancelled and a 2017 Convertible Bond was issued to the holder of the Convertible Debenture.
The terms of the Convertible Bond are consistent with those of the cancelled Convertible Debenture.
On 16 October 2006, the Financial Services Authority approved the admission to the Official List by way of blocklisting of 13,575,432 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each to be issued upon conversion of the 2017 Convertible Bond.
The 2017 Convertible Bond is listed on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The liability component of the Convertible Bonds is carried at amortised cost based on an effective interest rate of 5.74% per annum.
There were no conversions during 2007 or 2006.
Derivative Financial Liabilities US$m 2007 2006 Current: At fair value: Commodity cash flow hedges 192 53 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 1 Other commodity derivatives 13 7 Other foreign currency derivatives 17 205 78 Non-current: At fair value: Commodity cash flow hedges 58 50 Fair value interest rate swap hedge 6 26 Other foreign currency derivatives 142 96 206 172 Total 411 250 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 219 31.
Provisions Post Share-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2007 At 1 January 352 58 413 1,240 42 238 2,343 Acquisitions 15 8 69 92 Arising during the year 228 44 32 123 61 488 Discount unwinding 6 83 2 91 PPE asset adjustment 122 122 Discontinued operations and disposals 6 12 19 37 Utilised 190 27 75 12 86 390 Unused amounts reversed 30 30 Translation adjustments 9 75 32 3 119 At 31 December 414 102 481 1,533 99 169 2,798 Current 244 4 96 344 Non-current 170 102 481 1,529 99 73 2,454 414 102 481 1,533 99 169 2,798 Post Share-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2006 At 1 January 174 12 11 318 23 33 571 Acquisitions 111 407 816 16 150 1,500 Arising during the year 138 49 17 28 121 353 Discount unwinding 32 2 6 40 PPE asset adjustment 88 88 Utilised 74 3 1 49 2 67 196 Unused amounts reversed 8 12 5 25 Translation adjustments 11 21 19 3 12 At 31 December 352 58 413 1,240 42 238 2,343 Current 193 4 92 289 Noncurrent 159 58 413 1,236 42 146 2,054 352 58 413 1,240 42 238 2,343 Employee entitlements The employee entitlement provisions mainly represent the value of excess leave entitlements allocated over the leave taken by the employees of the Group.
These amounts are expected to be utilised as the employees either take their accrued leave or receive equivalent benefits upon ceasing employment.
Current employee entitlements includes excess short-term leave entitlements and the portion of non-current employee entitlements that are expected to be incurred within 12 months.
Non-current entitlements include long-service leave entitlements which are payable upon an employee attaining a certain period of service and workers compensation provisions.
For some entitlements, amounts will also be recovered from an independent fund refer to note 19.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 8 years 2006: 9 years.
220 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 31.
Provisions continued Share-based compensation plans The Group has various share-based compensation plans under which options to subscribe for the Companys shares have been granted to certain executives and senior employees that will be cash-settled refer to note 34.
The intrinsic value of the options that had vested at 31 December 2007 was US$86 million 2006 US$17 million.
Post retirement medical plans The Group operates unfunded post-retirement medical benefits plans in North America and South Africa for a number of current and former employees.
Independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 13 years 2006: 13 years refer to note 34.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the estimated costs required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of mining activities.
These amounts will reverse when such rehabilitation has been performed.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 25 years 2006: 24 years refer to note 24.
Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions represent the restatement of various long-term contracts to their current market value at the acquisition date of subsidiaries.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 7 years 2006: 12 years.
Other Other includes provisions for litigation of US$79 million 2006 US$83 million and restructuring of US$13 million 2006 US$32 million.
The current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 3 years 2006: 17 years.
Other Liabilities US$m 2007 2006 Current: Deferred income 45 41 45 41 Non-current: Deferred income 78 16 78 16 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 221 33.
Commitments and Contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as Lessee The Group has entered into leases for buildings, motor vehicles and sundry plant and equipment.
These leases have an average life of 7 years 2006: 5 years with renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: US$m 2007 2006 Within 1 year 42 50 After 1 year but not more than 5 years 95 101 More than 5 years 26 20 163 171 Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has entered into finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery.
The majority of these leases include a residual balloon payment at the end of the lease term and title passing to the Group.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the future finance charges as at 31 December are as follows: Present Present Un-discounted value of Un-discounted value of minimum minimum minimum minimum payments payments payments payments US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Within 1 year 27 18 159 147 After 1 year but not more than 5 years 100 74 84 68 More than 5 years 56 40 43 27 Total minimum lease payments 183 132 286 242 Less amounts representing finance lease charges 51 44 Present value of minimum lease payments 132 132 242 242 Capital commitments Amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounted to US$1,455 million 2006 US$795 million, including: Xstrata Coal US$170 million for the development of the Goedgevonden open cut coal mine, US$53 million for a dragline at the Wondoan project, US$53 million for the Wollombi development and US$51 million for a coal handling preparation plant upgrade at Liddell: Xstrata Zinc US$109 million for the development of an open cut mine at Mt Isa: and Xstrata Nickel US$78 million 2006 US$104 million for the Nickel Rim South project and US$320 million 2006 US$159 million for the Koniambo project.
The balance of the other amounts contracted for but not provided relates to various minor commitments around the Group, mainly for the purchase of new property, plant and equipment.
Included in the above is US$350 million 2006 US$371 million representing the Groups share of the capital commitments that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Finance leases entered into after 31 December 2007 amounted to US$nil 2006 US$nil.
222 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 33.
Commitments and Contingencies continued Guarantees Xstrata Coal Australia has contracted US$588 million 2006 US$697 million for rail take or pay commitments, US$450 million 2006 US$494 million for port take or pay commitments, performance guarantees to customers under contracts for supply of coal for US$24 million 2006 US$25 million and guarantees to the New South Wales and Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof US$215 million 2006 US$112 million.
Xstrata Coal South Africa has issued guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy to obtain certain prospecting permits of US$70 million 2006 US$68 million.
Xstrata Coals share of the Cerrejn coal mines performance guarantees totals US$381 million 2006 US$343 million.
These guarantees have been provided to various government agencies to enable the coal mine to freely export coal, receive tax exemptions, and to access a special imports system.
Xstrata Alloys has issued a guarantee in respect of the obligations of Merafe under a US$33 million 2006 US$43 million facility in connection with the acquisition of certain assets and resources relating to the Pooling and Sharing Venture PSV and the Project Lion ferrochrome expansion project to be undertaken by the PSV.
Any payments to be made under the guarantee are secured by the Groups ability to acquire Merafes PSV assets for fair value and the security Merafe has provided to the lender.
Xstrata Copper, Xstrata Zinc and Xstrata Technology Australia have issued performance guarantees to customers for US$53 million 2006 US$27 million and guarantees to the Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources and other government agencies in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof, environmental bonds and self insurance licences US$105 million 2006 US$133 million.
Xstrata Nickel has issued guarantees for energy contracts of US$153 million 2006 US$96 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued performance guarantees to the Northern Territory government for an electricity supply and pipeline agreement of US$32 million 2006 US$29 million and has provided bank guarantees to the Northern Territory government for rehabilitation costs of US$49 million 2006 US$41 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued bank guarantees in Spain of US$107 million 2006 US$55 million.
A letter of credit of US$205 million 2006 US$172 million has been given for the pension liabilities of the Groups Canadian operations.
Letters of credit have been issued to the Canadian government for rehabilitation costs of US$38 million 2006 US$33 million.
Included in the above is US$1,730 million 2006 US$1,609 million representing the Groups share of guarantees that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Employee Benefits Share-based Payments The expense recognised for share-based payments during the year is shown in the following table: US$m 2007 2006 Expense arising from equity settled transactions 59 42 Expense arising from cash settled transactions 44 49 Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 103 91 The Group operates a number of share option plans which are outlined below.
There have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2007 or 2006.
Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP has two elements: i A contingent award of free ordinary shares that vests after three years, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied: and ii An option to acquire ordinary shares at a specified exercise price after the third anniversary of grant, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied.
All LTIP awards that vest are subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria being met over a three-year performance period.
The 2003 LTIP awards are only subject to the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance criteria.
Half of the options and free share awards granted in 2004 and 2005 are conditional on TSR relative to a peer group, with the remainder conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale over the three-year period.
Employee Benefits continued For the awards conditional on TSR, one-half of the award will vest if TSR growth is at the median of the specified peer group, the full award will vest for performance at or above the second decile with straight line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur for below median performance.
For the awards where vesting is conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 10% of the award will vest for 1% cost savings, 70% for 2% cost savings and all awards for 3% or more cost savings, with straight line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur if cost savings are less than 1%.
Real cost savings are measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of inflation, excluding depreciation, commodity price linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs and planned life of mine adjustments.
No other features of the LTIP awards are incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
No consideration will be payable on the vesting of an LTIP award of free ordinary shares.
On exercise of an option, a participant will be required to pay an exercise price which is based on the closing market price of an ordinary share seven trading days prior to the date of grant.
Of the below options, 2.0 million 2006: 1.9 million are accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards whilst the remainder of the LTIP awards are equity-settled.
The movement in the number of free ordinary shares and share options is as follows: Free Shares 2007 2007 2006 2006 No WAEP No WAEP 1 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 4,129,365 NA 3,675,667 NA Granted during the year 977,573 NA 852,536 NA 2 Granted through rights issue NA 436,838 NA Forfeited during the year 54,491 NA 121,974 NA 4 3 Exercised during the year 1,804,700 NA 675,586 NA Expired during the year NA 38,116 NA Outstanding as at 31 December 3,247,747 NA4,129,365 NA Exercisable at 31 December NA NA 1 All shares included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
2 These awards were issued as a result of the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP17.56.
4 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP23.63.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the free shares outstanding as at 31 December 2007 is 8.1 years 2006: 8.0 years.
The weighted average fair value of free shares granted during the year was US$38.23 2006 US$22.25.
Employee Benefits continued Share Options 2007 2007 2006 2006 No WAEP No WAEP Outstanding as at 1 January 14,450,730 GBP9.26 12,191,118 GBP7.82 Granted during the year 3,258,590 GBP24.00 2,812,204 GBP16.15 1 Granted through rights issue 1,531,063 GBP9.25 Forfeited during the year 182,323 GBP13.21 406,582 GBP9.99 2 3 Exercised during the year 4,332,000 GBP6.49 1,559,147 GBP3.57 Expired during the year 117,926 GBP3.53 4 5 Outstanding as at 31 December 13,194,997 GBP13.73 14,450,730 GBP9.26 Exercisable at 31 December 2,402,460 GBP5.89 637,630 GBP3.22 1 These awards were issued as a result of the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP25.58.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP17.75.
4 All the share options included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, except for 65,708 options issued in 2002.
5 All shares included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
except for 81,013 options issued in 2002.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2007: 7.7 years 2006 7.9 years.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$13.93 2006 US$7.72.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was GBP3.22 to GBP24.00 2006 GBP3.22 to GBP15.37.
The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of equity settled awards granted: Date of Date of grant grant 2007 2006 Dividend yield % 1.5 1.3 Expected volatility % 35 31 Risk-free interest rate % 5.1 4.4 Earliest exercise date 15 Mar 2010 10 Mar 2009 Latest exercise date 14 Mar 2017 09 Mar 2016 Expected exercise date 27 Nov 2010 17 Nov 2009 Share price at date of grant GBP 24.25 17.03 Exercise price GBP 24.00 17.17 Free share fair value at date of grant GBP 19.73 16.38 Option fair value at date of grant GBP 6.74 4.49 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historic volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Both the free shares and the equity settled options are equity settled plans and the fair value is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the cash settled options is measured at the date of grant and at each reporting date until the liability is settled, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
226 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 34.
Employee Benefits continued Xstrata AG incentive plan With the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc, Xstrata plc assumed the obligations of Xstrata AG under the scheme with the number of options and exercise price adjusted accordingly.
The share options had a two-year vesting period followed by a three-year exercise period.
The exercise price was the share price at the date of granting of the share options.
There were no other conditions attaching to these options and they could be cash-settled by the holder.
No further options were granted under this incentive plan.
All of the options below were accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2007 2007 2006 2006 No WAEP No WAEP 1 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 14,320 CHF13.41 173,331 CHF27.63 2 Granted through rights issue 1,502 CHF13.41 4 3 Exercised during the year 14,320 CHF13.41 147,846 CHF25.64 Expired during the year 12,667 CHF25.64 Outstanding as at 31 December 14,320 CHF13.41 Exercisable at 31 December 14,320 CHF13.41 1 All shares included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was CHF35.89.
4 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was CHF56.96.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2006 was 0.1 years.
No new shares were granted during the year.
Directors Service contracts Options were granted to two executive directors pursuant to the terms of on which they were recruited.
The options are to be equity-settled.
The exercise price is the share price at the date of granting of the share options.
The final scheme vested in January 2007 and each scheme has an exercise period of seven years.
If the holder ceases to be employed by the Group for any reason, they may exercise any vested options within six months of such cessation, after which the options lapse.
Any unvested options will lapse if the holder is dismissed lawfully under the terms of their contract or if they voluntarily resign except where they have a valid reason to terminate their employment as defined in their employment contract, in which case all unvested options shall immediately vest and become exercisable for a period of six months.
In all other cases, they will remain exercisable for a period of six months.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2007 2007 2006 2006 No WAEP No WAEP Outstanding as at 1 January 1,242,492 GBP4.36 1,334,580 GBP4.75 1 Granted through rights issue 156,413 GBP3.69 3 2 Exercised during the year 100,000 GBP5.68 248,501 GBP3.69 Outstanding as at 31 December 1,142,492 GBP4.25 1,242,492 GBP4.36 Exercisable at 31 December 1,142,492 GBP4.25 993,994 GBP4.03 1 These awards were issued as a result of the rights issue in October 2006 refer to note 26.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP24.53.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP27.62.
The above share options have not been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2007 is 5.4 years 2006: 6.4 years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was GBP3.84 to GBP5.68 2006 GBP3.84 to GBP5.68.
Employee Benefits continued Xstrata AG Directors Incentive Scheme With the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc, Xstrata plc assumed the obligations of Xstrata AG under the scheme with the number of options and exercise price adjusted accordingly.
No further options will be granted under this incentive plan.
The movement in the number of share options are as follows: 2007 2007 2006 2006 No WAEP No WAEP Outstanding as at 1 January 15,231 CHF28.64 Expired during the year 15,231 CHF28.64 Outstanding as at 31 December Exercisable at 31 December Deferred Bonus As detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 121 to 135, the maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for executive directors and the members of the Executive Committee is 300% of salary.
Bonuses are payable in three tranches as follows: the maximum bonus, which any one participant is eligible to receive in cash, will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be deferred for a period of one year: and any remaining bonus will be deferred for a period of two years.
The deferred elements will take the form of awards of Xstrata shares conditional on the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
The number of shares awarded will be determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date the bonus payment is determined.
The deferred elements have been treated as an equity-settled share-based payment in accordance with IFRS 2.
In 2005 the Xstrata Remuneration Committee resolved that during the bonus deferral period dividend equivalents would accrue in relation to the deferral, to be delivered at the end of the deferral period and subject to the deferral award vesting.
As dividend equivalents are receivable on the deferred amounts, the fair value of the deferral is technically equal to the value of the bonuses deferred.
The following deferred bonus awards have been made: 2007 2006 2005 Market value of deferred bonus award US$m 16 13 7 Number of shares purchased 291,585 258,242 At the date of signing the financial statements, the shares were yet to be purchased in the market.
228 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 34.
Employee Benefits continued Added Value Plan AVP The first cycle of the AVP began on 9 May 2005, the second began on 10 March 2006 and the third on 15 March 2007.
A description of the performance requirements and the vesting schedule of the plan are detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 121 to 135.
The fair value of the 2007 equity-settled share-based payment under IFRS 2 was US$19 million, estimated at 15 March 2007, using a Monte Carlo simulation model to incorporate the market-based features of the plan.
The equivalent valuation of the 2006 award was US$7 million 2005 US$7 million, estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
For the 2007 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 15 March 2007 was US$45.2 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$46.77.
For the 2006 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 10 March 2006 was US$18.6 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$29.39.
For the 2005 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 9 May 2005 was US$11.4 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$18.00.
The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of the AVP award granted: 2007 2006 Xstrata share Xstrata share 1 1 Xstrata plc indices Xstrata plc indices 2 2 Dividend yield % N A N A N A N A Expected volatility % 38 25 30 21 Risk-free interest rate % 5.2 5.2 4.4 4.4 Third anniversary of start of cycle 15 March 2010 15 March 2010 10 March 2009 10 March 2009 Fourth anniversary of start of cycle 15 March 2011 15 March 2011 10 March 2010 10 March 2010 Fifth anniversary of start of cycle 15 March 2012 15 March 2012 10 March 2011 10 March 2011 1 There are two Xstrata share indices used within the valuation model: one is a market capitalisation weighted TSR index comprising 15 global mining firms 2006: 18 global mining firms who are considered to be Xstratas key competitors for both financial and human capital.
The other is a market capitalisation price index comprising the same global mining firm constituents.
2 When simulating the Xstrata price index, a dividend yield is included to account for the suppressing impact that a dividend payment has on the constituent share prices.
For the simulation of Xstratas TSR and the Index TSR a dividend yield is not required.
There is no disclosure of the number of equity instruments granted as the AVP is not an award over a fixed number of shares.
Pensions and Other Post-employment Benefit Plans The net expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December: US$m 2007 2006 Defined benefit pension plans 14 14 Defined contribution pension plans 149 81 Post-retirement medical plans 32 17 195 112 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 229 34.
Employee Benefits continued Defined Contribution Pension Plans The Group participates in a number of defined contribution pension plans and industry-wide schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group and are generally invested with insurance companies and regulated by local legislation.
Post-retirement Medical Plans The Group participates in a number of post-retirement medical benefits.
All material post-retirement medical benefit liabilities are in North America.
Independent qualified actuaries assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits using the projected unit credit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2007.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans The Group contributes to defined benefit pension plans for a number of its employees.
Independent professionally qualified actuaries assess the pension costs and funding of these plans using the projected unit method.
All significant pension assets and liabilities are in North America.
The following tables summarise the components of the net expense recognised in cost of sales in the income statement and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans.
The weighted average principal economic assumptions used to determine the actuarial values are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans 2007 2007 2006 2006 Rate of salary increases 3.8% 3.8% Rate of pension increases 3.2% 2.9% Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 9.1% 9.0% Bonds 4.6% 4.6% Total 6.9% 6.9% Discount rate 5.6% 5.7% 5.2% 5.3% Inflation rate 2.5% 2.6% 2.9% 2.5% Rate of medical cost increases 9.0% 9.0% A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have the following impact: Increase Decrease Increase Decrease US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Effect on the current service cost and interest cost 65 2 2 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 57 47 40 39 The pension plan mortality rate used at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 was UP-94 for North American pension and post-retirement medical plans.
These rates refer to published projected mortality tables by actuarial bodies in North America and take into account the assumed increases in the life expectancy and are calculated for both current and future pensioners.
There are no significant differences in these rates between schemes.
The average life expectancy in the medical plans was 82 years as at 31 December 2007 2006: 82 years.
230 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 34.
Employee Benefits continued The assets and liabilities of the schemes and the amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet at 31 December are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Present value of benefit obligations 2,717 481 2,604 413 Assets at fair value 2,495 2,393 Net liability 222 481 211 413 Net liability as at 31 December represented by: Pension deficits provisions 227 481 216 413 Pension assets 5 5 Net liability 222 481 211 413 Historical adjustments are as follows: US$m 2007 2006 2005 2004 Defined benefit obligation 2,717 2,604 106 110 Plan assets 2,495 2,393 85 85 Net deficit 222 211 21 25 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan liabilities 69 4 8 1 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan assets 126 96 4 1 The reconciliation of the net liability movement during the year in the net pension and post-retirement medical plan liability before allowance of deferred tax are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Net liability as at 1 January 211 413 21 11 Acquisition accounting adjustment 311 407 Discontinued operations and disposals 19 12 Total benefit expense 14 32 14 17 Actuarial gains losses 104 6 74 3 Employer contributions 116 21 61 4 Translation adjustments 28 75 21 Net liability as at 31 December 222 481 211 413 Relates to adjustments made in respect of the acquisition of Falconbridge Limited in August 2006.
Employee Benefits continued Contributions of US$24 million in 2008, US$29 million in 2009, US$17 million in 2010, US$16 million in 2011 and US$4 million in 2012 are being made in order to eliminate the deficiency in the North America plans.
The total contributions to the defined benefit pension plans in 2008 including these further contributions are US$73 million.
The components of benefit income expense recognised in the income statement during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Service cost 43 9 22 5 Interest cost 133 23 48 9 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 162 56 1 Gains on settlements and curtailments 4 14 32 14 17 The components of actuarial gains losses recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 162 56 1 Actual return on plan assets 36 152 3 Actual return less expected return on plan assets 126 96 2 Actuarial gain loss on obligations 69 12 4 Change of assumptions 91 6 26 5 104 6 74 3 The cumulative amount of net actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses is US$38 million 2006 gain US$60 million.
232 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 34.
Employee Benefits continued The reconciliation of the present value of benefit obligations and fair value of plan asset movements during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Benefit obligation present value as at 1 January 2,604 413 106 11 Acquisition accounting adjustment 2,565 439 Discontinued operations and disposals 255 12 Current service cost 43 9 22 5 Interest cost 133 23 48 9 Employee contributions 1 1 Actuarial gains losses 69 12 4 Actual benefit payments 165 21 59 10 Settlements and curtailments 28 Loss on settlements and curtailments 4 Change of assumptions 91 6 26 5 Translation adjustments 378 75 101 22 Benefit obligation present value as at 31 December 2,717 481 2,604 413 Plan assets fair value as at 1 January 2,393 85 Acquisition accounting adjustment 2,254 32 Discontinued operations and disposals 236 Actual return on plan assets 36 152 3 Company contributions 116 61 4 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid from fund 165 59 10 Settlements and curtailments 28 Translation adjustments 350 101 1 Plan assets fair value as at 31 December 2,495 2,393 Net liability as at 31 December 222 481 211 413 Net liability as at 1 January 211 413 21 11 The defined benefit obligation present value included above for unfunded pension plans at 31 December 2007 was US$5 million 2006 US$5 million.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows: Pension Pension plans plans 2007 2006 Equities 49% 52% Bonds 49% 48% Other 2% % Included in equities is US$nil 2006 US$1 million of Xstrata plc shares.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
Related Parties % of ordinary Country of shares held & Name incorporation Principal activities voting rights Principal Subsidiaries Xstrata Coal Abelshore Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Austral Coal Limited Australia Coal operations 100% AZSA Holdings Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Cook Resources Mining Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Foydell Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Liddell Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Xstrata Mt Owen Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Jonsha Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Oceanic Coal Australia Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Ravensworth Operations Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Saxonvale Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% The Wallerawang Collieries Limited Australia Coal operations 95% Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia Coal operations 90% Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia Feasibility projects 100% Xstrata Coal Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Investments Australia Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Xstrata Energy Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Mangoola Pty Limited Australia Coal Project 100% Xstrata Newpac Pty Limited Australia Investment company 100% Xstrata Coal Canada Limited Canada Investment company 100% Xstrata Coal South America Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Tironimus AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Tavistock Collieries Pty Ltd South Africa Coal operations 100% Xstrata Coal Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing and Trading 100% Xstrata Alloys Xstrata South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company, Coal, Chrome, 100% Platinum and Vanadium operations Eland Platinum Holdings Ltd South Africa Platinum operation 74% Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa Char operation 100% African Fine Carbon Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% African Carbon Producers Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% Xstrata Copper Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd Australia Copper operation 100% Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua Copper operation 50% Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia Copper, Lead and Zinc operations 100% Xstrata South America Limited Cayman Holding company 100% Xstrata Tintaya S. A. Peru Holding company 100% Compania Minera Xstrata Lomas Bayas Chile Copper operations 100% Xstrata Inversiones Chile Limitada Chile Holding company 100% Xstrata Copper Chile S. A. Chile Copper smelter 100% Xstrata Commodities Middle East DMCC UAE Marketing 100% Xstrata Recycling Inc. USA Copper recycling 100% 234 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Related Parties continued % of ordinary Country of shares held & Name incorporation Principal activities voting rights Principal Subsidiaries continued Xstrata Nickel Xstrata International Investments Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Xstrata Nickel International Limited Barbados Nickel feeds acquisition 100% Falconbridge Dominicana C por A Dom.
Republic Ferronickel operation 85% Xstrata Nickel U. S. Inc. U. S. A. Nickel marketing 100% Xstrata Nickel Marketing S. A. Belgium Nickel marketing 100% Falconbridge Nikkelverk Aktieselskap AS Norway Nickel refinery 100% Xstrata Nickel International S. A. Belgium Nickel procurement agent 100% Xstrata Brasil Exploracao Mineral Ltda Brazil Exploration 100% Koniambo Nickel SAS New Caledonia Ferronickel Project 49% Xstrata Zinc Asturiana fide Zinc SA Spain Zinc smelter 100% Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK Lead smelter 100% McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia Zinc operations 100% Xstrata Zinc GmbH Germany Zinc smelter 100% Xstrata Technology Xstrata Technology Pty Ltd Australia Technology operations 100% MIM Process Technology South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Technology operations 100% Other Xstrata Schweiz AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV Aruba Finance company 100% Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited UAE Finance company 100% Xstrata Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Queensland Limited Australia Holding company 100% Falconbridge Limited Canada Copper, Nickel and 100% Zinc operations Xstrata Finance Canada Limited Canada Finance company 100% Noranda Finance Inc. USA Finance company 100% Xstrata Canada Inc. Canada Holding company 100% Alberta Limited Canada Holding company 100% Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 235 35.
Related Parties continued Principal place of operations country of Effective Name incorporation Principal activities interest held Principal Joint Ventures Xstrata Coal Bulga Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 87.5% Cumnock Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture South Africa Coal operations 12.8% Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa Coal operations 74% Foybrook Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Liddell Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 80% Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Rolleston Pentland Wandoan Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 75% Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% United Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 95% ARM Coal Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 49% CMC Coal Marketing Company Ltd Ireland Marketing and Trading 33.33% Carbones fide Cerrejn LLC Anguilla Coal operations 33.33% Cerrejn Zona Norte SA Colombia Coal operations 33.33% Xstrata Alloys Merafe Pooling and Sharing Venture South Africa Chrome operations 79.5% Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa Platinum operations 37% Xstrata Copper Antamina Joint Venture Peru Copper and Zinc operations 33.75% Collahuasi Joint Venture Chile Copper operations 44% Xstrata Nickel Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania Nickel project 50% Xstrata Zinc Lady Loretta Australia Zinc project 75% Lennard Shelf Australia Zinc operations 50% Principal Associates Xstrata Coal Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd Australia Coal terminal 37.1% Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia Coal terminal 40.0% Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd South Africa Coal terminal 20.9% Xstrata Zinc Noranda Income Fund Canada Zinc refinery 25% This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to 2 of the 4 Board positions of Minera Alumbrera Limited, including the Chairman as it is the manager of the copper operation.
The Chairman has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the 4 board positions, however in a limited number of situations the vote must be unanimous, including transactions with related parties.
The Group has fide facto control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of its industry expertise and the ability to control the operating and financing decisions of the Joint Venture.
Directly held by the parent company.
40% held by the parent company.
90% held by the parent company.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of these in the above list.
All entities operate mainly in the country of incorporation and these interests are held indirectly by the parent company unless otherwise indicated.
236 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Related Parties continued During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties: Treatment Treatment Agency & Interest & & refining & refining other other Amounts Amounts US$m Sales Purchases charges revenue charges revenue payable receivable Glencore International AG 2007 8,713 1,217 90 26 79 2 240 467 2006 3,703 940 258 8 63 37 317 Joint venture entities 2007 427 8 360 329 2006 100 1 224 426 Associates 2007 792 202 12 3 2 20 2006 362 58 14 1 166 Includes share of joint ventures No provision for doubtful debts has been raised in respect of transactions with related parties Included in the transactions with Glencore International AG Glencore are US$484 million 2006 US$651 million of back-to-back sales whereby the title to the goods has passed to Glencore but they are then on-sold to customers at the same sales price that the Group received.
Amounts payable and receivable, are included in Trade and other receivables refer to note 19 and in Trade and other payables refer to note 27, are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
Glencore International AG Substantial shareholder As at 31 December 2007, Glencore owned 34.7% 2006: 35.7% of the issued share capital of the Company representing 336,801,333 ordinary shares 2006: 336,801,333 ordinary shares.
On 30 October 2006, 235,787,596 ordinary shares were issued under a rights issue which was structured as an issue of 1 new ordinary share at a price of GBP12.65 per share for every 3 existing ordinary shares held.
Glencore was paid an underwriting fee of US$35 million for the ordinary shares they subscribed to refer to note 26.
Chrome Xstrata Alloys entered into a ferrochrome marketing agreement with Glencore on 21 April 1995, appointing Glencore as its exclusive worldwide marketing agent for the sale of Xstrata Alloys entire production of ferrochrome other than ferrochrome sold into the US, Canada and certain Asian countries.
The agreement continues for as long as Xstrata Alloys produces ferrochrome.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to effecting the sale.
Glencore assists Xstrata Alloys in negotiating sales contracts with third parties.
Glencore is entitled to receive an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 0.75% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 60% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to ferrochrome sales.
If at any time Xstrata Alloys notifies Glencore that it is able to find purchasers for its production at prices higher than those generally obtainable by Glencore, Xstrata Alloys may, unless Glencore is able to obtain similar prices, sell its products in the market.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to an agency fee of 3.5% of FOB sales revenue in respect of such sales.
Glencore is also entitled to receive a US$50,000 monthly fee in connection with market analysis and certain administrative tasks it performs for Xstrata Alloys.
Related Parties continued Ferrochrome sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
These agreements continue indefinitely, with both parties having the right to terminate the agreement at 12 months notice.
The percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of ferrochrome sold under the distribution agreement is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of ferrochrome sold under the marketing agreement.
Mitsui & Co. Ltd is the appointed distributing agent for ferrochrome sales into China, Japan and South Korea up to a maximum of 105,000 tonnes per annum.
A change in distributing agent for sales into these countries must be done with the consent of Glencore.
Vanadium In December 1997, the Group, entered into a 20-year marketing agreement with Glencore in respect of Rhovans and Vantechs closed in 2004 entire production of vanadium other than vanadium sold into the US and Canada.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium to customers at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to effecting the sale.
Xstrata Alloys is obliged to pay to Glencore an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 1.5% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 100% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to vanadium sales.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to the 3.5% agency fees described above in respect of such sales.
Vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
The distribution agreements have the same term as the marketing agreement and consequently, the percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold under the marketing agreement.
Coal In 2002, the Group entered into a 20-year market advisory agreement with Glencore with fee reviews at the end of every fifth year of the agreement.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore acts as the Groups market advisor with respect to its export production of coal other than for Xstrata Coals share of production from the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
The fee payable to Glencore is US$0.50 per attributable tonne of coal exported by the Group from Australia or South Africa.
The first five-year fee review has not yet been finalised and both parties currently operating under the original terms of the agreement.
In January 1995, Cumnock entered into a sales and marketing agreement with Glencore, for a commission of US$0.75 per tonne for all coal sold by Cumnock.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore provides sales and marketing services to Cumnock and Cumnock appoints Glencore as its agent to market coal.
In 2007 the Group entered into market standard forward commodity price derivatives for 60,000 tonnes with Glencore as counterparty.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, there were no tonnes delivered 2006: 1,065,000 tonnes at an average FOB price of US$56.31 per tonne.
At 31 December 2007, 60,000 tonnes 2006 nil tonnes were contracted with Glencore for delivery in 2008.
These derivatives are on arms length terms and conditions and are included within derivative financial assets and liabilities refer to notes 23, 30 and 36.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, 256,733 tonnes were borrowed from Glencore 2006: 452,489 tonnes and 281,328 tonnes were transferred back to Glencore 2006: 507,970 tonnes with 206,206 tonnes owed to Glencore at 31 December 2007 2006: 224,801 tonnes on arms length terms and conditions.
In 2006 the Group entered into a three-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels to coal mines in New South Wales and Queensland.
Under this supply agreement US$69 million 2006 US$47 million worth of fuel was delivered during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The supply agreement is on arms length terms and prices change monthly according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
238 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Related Parties continued In 2005 Cerrejn entered into a four-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels.
The Groups share of the fuel purchases for the year ended 31 December 2007 was US$48 million 2006 US$43 million.
The supply agreement is on arms length terms and prices change for each shipment according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
All coal purchases and sales with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
1 On 20 April 2006, the Group acquired a 33 3% interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia for a cash consideration of US$1,719 million from Glencore refer to note 7.
Zinc During 2006, Xstrata Zinc renewed a service agreement for a period of two years with Glencore the Asturiana Service Agreement, under the terms of which Glencore provides advice and assistance with respect to the acquisition of mining and or metallurgical interests and advice in connection with Asturianas hedging policy and improvement of its position in the zinc market.
The fees to be paid by Asturiana under the Asturiana Service Agreement are US$2 million per annum.
Xstrata Zinc entered into an evergreen agreement with Glencore in 2004 to purchase 380,000 dmt 2006: 380,000 dmt per annum of zinc concentrate.
Treatment charges in respect of such purchases are negotiated annually on arms length terms and conditions.
In 2007, Xstrata Zinc San Juan fide Nieva and Nordenham agreed to supply Glencore with 217,500 tonnes 2006: 220,000 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs or CGG ingots during 2007 based on market FOB CPT prices plus the respective market premium.
In 2007 Xstrata Zinc McArthur River supplied Glencore with 262,400 wmt of zinc concentrate 2006: 262,400 wmt and has an agreement to supply this amount each year until 31 December 2009, after which it will become evergreen in nature.
Treatment charges are negotiated annually on arms length terms and conditions.
Xstrata Zinc Mt Isa has two agreements with Glencore for the supply of zinc concentrate from 2006 to 31 December 2008 after which they will become evergreen in nature.
The first agreement is to supply 90,000 wmt per annum.
The second agreement is to supply 80,000 wmt to 100,000 wmt per annum for the purpose of swapping Mt Isa concentrate in exchange for the same volume to be delivered to Xstratas European smelters at equivalent terms.
Xstrata Zinc Canada had an agreement to supply Glencore with 1,000 tonnes per month 2006: 1,000 tonnes per month, of SHG zinc slabs and Jumbos based on market delivery duty paid plus the respective market premium during 2007.
During 2007 there were spot SHG zinc slabs and Jumbo sales for 12,159 tonnes 2006: 500 tonnes.
In 2007, 9,596 tonnes 2006 nil tonnes of lead concentrate was sold on arms length terms and condition.
All purchase and sales transactions with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
Copper Xstrata Copper has entered into sales agreements with Glencore in respect of the total available export allocation of copper cathode and surplus North Queensland copper concentrate not processed through its Mount Isa copper smelter for an initial three-year period effective from 1 January 2004, and evergreen thereafter.
The sales terms for the copper cathode are the LME price plus a range of premiums based on Codelco North Asian CIF Liner Terms less freight discounts by destination.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are based on market prices less agreed metal content deductions, treatment and refining charges.
The treatment and refining charges comprise both an annual benchmark and spot component.
North Queensland on occasions sells by-products to Glencore and purchases concentrate from Glencore at prevailing spot market terms.
Xstrata Copper Minera Alumbrera Limited has entered into a frame contract with Glencore on an evergreen basis.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are negotiated annually on arms length terms and conditions.
Minera Alumbrera Limited also has a fixed term contract for the sale of copper concentrate to Glencore from 2004 to 2007.
The sales terms were fixed at arms length terms at the time the agreement was entered into.
Minera Alumbrera Limited on occasions sells concentrate to Glencore at prevailing spot market prices.
Minera Alumbrera Limited on occasions also sells concentrate to Glencore under swap arrangements at prevailing market prices.
Related Parties continued Copper concentrate purchase and sale agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2007, at prevailing spot market conditions.
Copper cathode sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2007.
All sales are based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Copper concentrate purchase agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper North Chile and Glencore for a four year frame contract commencing 1 January 2007.
All purchases are based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Copper cathode sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper North Chile and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2007.
Copper concentrate sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Tintaya and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2007.
Sales agreements were also entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore on copper cathode, for the period 1 January to 31 December 2007, and copper concentrates, for a three-year frame contract starting 1 January 2007.
All sales transactions with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
Nickel In March 2007 Xstrata Nickel entered into sole distributorship agreements with Glencore, for its nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production.
These agreements continue until 31 December 2012 and are automatically renewed for successive three-year periods unless terminated by either party with not less than 12 months notice prior to the end of the original term or any renewal terms, or unless Xstrata Nickel permanently ceases production of these metals.
Xstrata Nickel, at its sole discretion, may cease, suspend or reduce production at any time.
Glencore is obliged to distribute the products with all due care and diligence and shall cultivate and maintain good relations with purchasers and potential purchasers in accordance with sound commercial principles and taking into account Xstrata Nickels business principles.
All sales terms and conditions are set on an arms length basis.
For nickel, ferronickel and cobalt sales, the price basis is the month following the month of delivery.
Accordingly, provisionally priced nickel, ferronickel and cobalt revenues are subject to final price adjustments due to future price changes.
In the period from the commencement of these agreements to 31 December 2007, Xstrata Nickel sold to Glencore 71,150 tonnes of nickel, 2,708 tonnes of cobalt and 24,212 tonnes of ferronickel.
This included a one off sale of approximately 5,300 tonnes of nickel and 400 tonnes of cobalt to Glencore at the inception of the agreement, resulting in a contribution to revenue of US$354 million.
In addition, Glencore prepays monthly to Xstrata Nickel in two equal instalments 100% of the value of the months planned production.
The prepayment balance as at 31 December 2007 amounted to $166 million.
In 2004 Xstrata Nickel entered into two agreements with Glencore for the treatment of approximately 2,000 tonnes per annum of white alloy raw material feed to the Nikkelverk refinery in Norway and the Sudbury smelter in Canada.
The contracts include both a metal purchase and a metal return component.
The term of the contracts is to the end of 2009, continuing indefinitely thereafter unless terminated by either party with six months notice given not earlier than 1 July 2009.
Treatment and refining charges to Glencore are subject to price participation adjustments based on prevailing market prices.
Xstrata Nickel sells refined nickel and cobalt to Glencore on arms length terms and conditions, under annual contracts or spot arrangements, which are based on prevailing market rates.
Technology In 2006, Xstrata Technology was contracted to install a copper ISASMELT furnace, a lead ISASMELT furnace and an IsaProcess copper refinery at Kazzinc, a Glencore subsidiary for US$99 million.
The project commenced in May 2006 and is due to be commissioned by December 2009.
This transaction with Kazzinc is on arms length terms and conditions.
240 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 35.
Related Parties continued Associates Coal Xstrata Coal has a number of investments in export coal terminals allowing it to export coal into overseas markets.
Xstrata Coal South Africa holds a 20.9% 2006: 20.9% interest in Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd RBCT, a company that operates the coal terminal in Richards Bay, South Africa.
Xstrata Coal South Africa reimburses RBCT for its share of operating and capital expenditure.
Xstrata Coal Australia has a 20% 2006: 20% interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and a 37.1% 2006: 37.1% interest in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited.
Xstrata Coal Australia reimburses these coal terminals for its share of coal loading and handling charges.
Zinc The Group has a 25% economic and voting interest in the Noranda Income Fund NIF, which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Groups interest in the NIF are held as ordinary units of the partnership, which are subordinate to the priority units in respect of cash distributions in any month until 3 May 2017.
In addition, the Group has entered into a supply and processing agreement that continues until 2 May 2017 and is obligated to sell to the NIF up to 550,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate per year.
The NIF pays the Group a concentrate price, based on the price of zinc metal on the London Metal Exchange, for the payable zinc metal contained in the concentrate less a processing fee of US$0.3446 per pound 2006 US$0.3131 per pound of such payable zinc metal at 31 December 2007.
Joint Venture Entities Coal 1 Xstrata Coal has a 33 3% interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
All purchase terms and conditions are set on an arms length basis.
Copper Xstrata Copper has a 44% interest in the Collahuasi joint venture in Chile.
The Collahuasi joint venture has fixed term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 160,000 dmt per year expiring in 2009 and for 120,000 dmt per year expiring in 2014.
The treatment and refining charges are based on benchmark terms in accordance with the prevailing market.
Xstrata Copper has a 33.75% interest in the Antamina joint venture in Peru.
The Antamina joint venture has fixed term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 170,000 dmt per year expiring in 2013.
All other purchases between the joint venture entities and the Group are set on an arms length basis based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Remuneration of Key Management Personnel of the Group US$m 2007 2006 Wages and salaries 24 15 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs 6 4 Share-based compensation plans 68 65 98 84 Includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 132 to 135.
Financial Instruments Principles of Risk Management The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Treasury Committee, which operates as a sub-committee of the Executive Committee.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the recommendation of policies to manage financial instrument risks.
These recommendations are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and implemented by the Groups Treasury Department.
The overall objective of the Treasury Committee is to effectively manage credit risk, liquidity risk and other market risks in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Other responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include management of the Groups cash resources and debt funding programmes, approval of counter-parties and relevant transaction limits and the monitoring of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Group uses both conventional financial instruments and derivative financial instruments to manage these risks.
The Groups Treasury Department prepares monthly treasury reports which monitor all significant treasury activities undertaken by Group companies.
The report also benchmarks significant treasury activities and monitors key banking loan covenants to ensure continued compliance.
The Treasury Committee and Executive Committee reviews these reports to monitor the financial instrument risks of the Group and to ensure compliance with established Group policies and procedures.
The Groups significant financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, convertible borrowings, capital market notes, finance leases, hire purchase contracts, cash and short-term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups acquisitions and ongoing operations.
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
Derivative transactions are entered into solely to hedge risks and hedge accounting under IAS 39 is only applied when certain criteria have been met.
Market fluctuations in derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are used to offset the fluctuations in the underlying exposure.
The Group does not hold derivates for trading or speculative purposes.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivates are set out in Note 6. Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets.
Investments in cash, short-term deposits and similar assets are with approved counter-party banks and other financial institutions.
Counterparties are assessed both prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited to an acceptable level.
The Groups major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables.
Given the geographical industry spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited.
Past the due date but not impaired Neither Impaired nor Between Between Between past the Less than 30 and 91 and 181 and More than US$m due date 30 days 90 days 180 days 365 days 1 year Total Trade debtors: 2007 1,303 898 105 92 51 2 2,451 2006 1,238 729 218 52 141 2 2,380 The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Credit Department.
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of high credit quality.
There were no material impairments of trade debtors as at 31 December 2007 or 2006.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
No collateral is held in respect of impaired assets or assets that are past due but not impaired.
Details of guarantees material to the Group are outlined in note 33.
242 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Financial Instruments continued Where concentrations of credit risk exist, management closely monitors the receivable and ensures appropriate controls are in place to ensure recovery.
A portion of the Groups revenues are generated from sales to Glencore, a related party.
These sales are governed by various sales, marketing and distribution agreements as outlined in note 35.
In general, Glencore act as a sales and marketing agent, on-selling purchases from the Group to a wide variety of purchasers.
As these agreements have been in place for a number of years and the Group has not been exposed to significant unrecoverable amounts, the Group does not believe these arrangements expose it to unacceptable credit risks.
Credit risk is minimal and not concentrated for other financial assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the total carrying value of financial assets on the balance sheet as at the reporting date, being an amount of US$4,854 million 2006 US$5,196 million.
The Group does not have netting agreements with any debtors.
The Group has also provided a financial guarantee to Merafe refer note 33.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at a reasonable price.
The Groups Treasury Department is responsible for management of liquidity risk, including funding, settlements, related processes and policies.
The Group manages its liquidity risk on a consolidated basis utilising various sources of finance to maintain flexibility while ensuring access to cost effective funds when required.
The operational, tax, capital and regulatory requirements and obligations of the Group are considered in the management of liquidity risk.
In addition, management utilise both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts and other consolidated financial information to manage liquidity risk.
The Groups Treasury Department monitors the Groups long-term credit ratings from major ratings agencies including Standard & Poors and Moodys when assessing the ongoing credit-worthiness of the Group.
At 31 December 2007, the Group had long-term credit ratings of BBB stable outlook from Standard & Poors and Baa2 stable outlook from Moodys.
The ratings agencies consider a number of qualitative measurements when assessing the credit-worthiness of a company.
These include an assessment of the quality of assets and management, attitudes to risk, industry type and the performance of the company in relation to its peers.
They also examine a number of financial ratios such as leverage, debt to operating cash flow, interest coverage, total liabilities to total assets and return on invested capital.
The Groups Treasury Department continuously monitors the Groups performance relative to these ratios as a guide to the ongoing credit-worthiness of the Group.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
This ensures flexibility to minimise liquidity risk and ensure the ongoing solvency of the Group.
The un-drawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2007 in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date are as follows: Available un-drawn borrowing facilities and maturity: US$m 2007 2006 Expiring in: Less than 1 year 3,415 793 Between 3 to 4 years 407 Between 4 to 5 years 410 3,825 1,200 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 243 36.
Financial Instruments continued The following tables show the Groups contractually agreed undiscounted forecast cash flows from interest payments and the repayments of financial liabilities, including derivative financial liabilities.
Due within Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2007 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,118 781 68 1,378 5,701 3,750 12,796 Convertible borrowings 375 375 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 644 569 498 458 319 2,219 4,707 Other non-interest bearing liabilities 3,745 54 3,799 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts net payments 205 58 142 6 411 Due within Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2006 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,990 515 3,971 55 4,675 3,730 14,936 Convertible borrowings 214 375 589 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 803 644 569 498 458 2,538 5,510 Other non-interest bearing liabilities 3,125 95 3,220 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts net payments 78 23 27 11 98 13 250 All instruments held at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 and for which payments were already contractually agreed are included.
Amounts in foreign currency are each translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
The variable interest payments arising from the financial instruments were calculated using interest rates as at reporting date.
Financial liabilities that can be repaid at any time are always assigned to the earliest possible time period.
Future forecast transactions or transactions subsequent to year end are not included.
Market Risk Analysis IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant market risk variables on the Groups profit and shareholders equity.
The periodic effects are determined by relating the hypothetical changes in the risk variables to the balance of financial instruments at the reporting date.
The Groups primary market exposures are to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
244 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Financial Instruments continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk primarily as a result of exposures to movements in the LIBOR.
It is the Groups preference to borrow and invest at floating rates of interest, notwithstanding that some borrowings are at fixed rates.
In addition, a limited amount of fixed rate hedging may be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest rates is more significant.
In keeping with the Groups preference to borrow at floating rates of interest, the following interest rate swap contracts were outstanding at 31 December 2007 and 2006: Fair value hedges table and interest rate risk profile table: Principal Average Fair Principal Average Fair amount rate % Value amount Rate % value US$m 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Fair value hedges: Interest rate swap from US$ fixed rates: Maturing in less than 1 year 111 8.09 4 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 111 8.48 4 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 1,050 5.17 29 600 4.5 11 Maturing between 4 to 5 years 925 5.60 32 1,050 5.69 2 Maturing greater than 5 years 2,175 5.64 37 1,750 6.30 13 Interest rate swap to US$ fixed rates: Maturing in less than 1 year 25 5.00 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 25 5.00 Maturing between 4 to 5 years 100 4.54 6 Maturing greater than 5 years 100 4.54 4 4,386 5.55 96 3,636 5.84 18 Relates to the Unsecured notes and Senior debentures refer to note 28.
Relates to the Convertible borrowings refer to note 29.
Financial Instruments continued The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2007 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2007 Fixed rate by balance sheet category Cash and cash equivalents 220 220 Capital market notes 350 14 14 1,165 1,335 3,338 6,216 Equity minority interest loans 81 81 Convertible borrowings 327 327 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 18 21 13 29 4 47 132 Preference shares 149 79 228 Other loans 54 54 297 114 27 1,194 1,420 3,766 6,818 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 37 11 9 27 1 73 84 CAD 347 81 1 2 2 14 447 EUR 675 675 1,350 US$ 8 22 15 1,165 742 2,993 4,929 GBP 8 8 ZAR 3 2 11 16 297 114 27 1,194 1,420 3,766 6,818 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 903 903 Other financial assets 54 21 75 Capital market notes 500 500 Syndicated bank loan 481 4,270 4,751 Bank loans unsecured 41 41 41 180 2 305 Bank overdrafts 79 79 Preference shares 120 120 Other loans 8 15 328 351 356 541 41 188 4,407 307 5,128 Floating rate by currency: AUD 57 57 CAD 39 120 81 EUR 10 10 US$ 20 540 40 188 4,287 133 5,168 ZAR 209 1 1 174 33 GBP 1 1 ARS 14 14 CLP 1 1 Other 5 5 356 541 41 188 4,407 307 5,128 246 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Financial Instruments continued The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2006 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2006 Fixed rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 467 467 Capital market notes 5 320 14 14 391 3,388 4,132 Equity minority interest loans 81 81 Convertible borrowings 201 324 525 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 147 14 16 10 27 28 242 Preference shares 134 67 201 Other loans 1 1 315 468 97 225 418 3,822 4,715 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 95 8 8 10 22 21 164 CAD 289 67 5 7 368 EUR 1 1 GBP 11 11 US$ 397 55 22 215 391 3,793 4,079 Other 2 116 114 315 468 97 225 418 3,822 4,715 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 1,181 1,181 Other financial assets 77 77 Capital market notes 500 500 Syndicated bank loan 1,677 3,353 4,063 9,093 Bank loans other 39 64 41 41 172 357 Bank overdrafts 143 143 Preference shares 103 103 Other loans 162 162 678 64 3,894 41 4,235 188 9,100 Floating rate by currency: AUD 57 57 CAD 132 130 262 EUR 13 13 GBP 1 1 US$ 658 64 3,893 41 4,235 10 8,881 ZAR 32 1 68 37 Other 9 9 678 64 3,894 41 4,235 188 9,100 These borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps.
The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates and re-priced at least annually.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Financial Instruments continued IFRS 7 requires interest rate sensitivity analysis that shows the effects of changes in market interest rates on the income statement and, if appropriate, shareholders equity.
The interest rate sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions: For non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms a change in market interest rates only affects income if these are measured at their fair value.
Consequently, all non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms that are carried at amortised cost are excluded from this analysis with the exception of those subject to a fixed to floating rate swap refer below : Items subject to an effective fixed to floating interest rate swap hedge are assumed to be floating instruments for the purpose of this analysis: For floating rate instruments, income statement impacts assume adjustments to interest income and expense for a 12-month period: The Group does not have significant cash flow hedges related to interest rate risk.
As such, movements that would occur in equity as a result of a hypothetical change in interest rates at reporting date has been excluded from this analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: The Group does not have material exposure to interest rate risk from available for sale financial instruments.
As such, these financial instruments have been excluded from this analysis: The balance of interest bearing financial instruments at reporting date is representative of the balance for the year as a whole and hypothetical interest rate movements are deemed to apply for the entire reporting period: and The impact of interest rate movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
If the market interest rates had been 100 basis points higher lower at 31 December 2007 income would have been US$71 million 2006 US$124 million lower higher.
There would be no material effect on equity reserves other than those relating directly to movements in the income statement.
Foreign currency risk Owing to the Groups significant operations in Australia, North America, South America, South Africa and Europe, the balance sheet and results can be affected significantly by movements in exchange rates.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates provides a degree of natural protection however, in the short term it can be quite volatile.
The presentation currency of the Group is the US$.
248 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Financial Instruments continued Foreign currency hedges Group subsidiaries located in Australia and Canada have entered into AUD US$ and CAD US$ exchange contracts to hedge a portion of their US$ denominated revenue and third party loans.
The Group also enters into forward contracts to hedge specific one off foreign currency transactions.
The open foreign currency exchange contracts as at 31 December 2007 are as follows: Classified as cash flow hedges: Average Average Contract forward Fair Contract forward Fair amount rate value Amount rate value US$m 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 125 0.8544 1 143 0.7550 6 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 11 0.7397 1 125 0.8544 1 154 0.7539 7 Forward contracts sell US$ buy EUR: Maturing in less than 1 year 19 1.3125 19 1.3125 Forward contracts sell US$ buy EUR: Maturing between 4 to 5 years 675 1.35 56 Maturing after 5 years 675 1.35 56 1,350 1.35 112 Forward contracts sell ZAR buy EUR: Maturing in less than 1 year 3 7.9685 3 7.9685 Forward contracts sell AUD buy GBP: Maturing in less than 1 year 1 0.3884 1 0.3884 Forward contracts sell US$ buy JPY: Maturing in less than 1 year 2 103.85 9 108.3762 1 2 103.85 9 108.3762 1 Forward contracts sell US$ buy CAD: Maturing in less than 1 year 5 1.5290 3 5 1.5290 3 Forward contracts sell CAD buy US$: Maturing in less than 1 year 1 1.5290 1 1.5290 Relates to the Unsecured notes refer to note 28 An Australian subsidiary has designated its US$ denominated capital market notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in a US$ denominated South American operation refer to note 28.
Financial Instruments continued Classified as other derivatives: Average Average Contract forward Fair Contract forward Fair amount rate value amount rate value US$m 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 931 0.8664 15 931 0.8664 15 Forward contracts sell CAD buy US$: Maturing in less than 1 year 18 0.983 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 300 1.535 142 Maturing between 4 to 5 years 300 1.54 96 318 1.504 142 300 1.54 96 Forward contracts sell US$ buy CAD: Maturing in less than 1 year 1,330 1.0452 65 790 1.14 17 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 111 1.57 48 1,330 1.0452 65 901 1.19 31 Forward contracts sell US$ buy EUR: Maturing in less than 1 year 12 1.3429 1 12 1.3429 1 For the purpose of IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis currency risks arises because financial instruments are denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint venture.
The movements shown below largely result from trade payables and receivables that are not denominated in the local entitys functional currency.
Trade payable and receivables generally arise as a result of the operations of the Group in the ordinary course of business.
The currency sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Differences resulting from the translation of financial statements of subsidiaries or joint ventures into the Groups presentation currency, US$, are not taken into consideration: The major currency exposures for the Group relate to the US$ and local currencies of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Foreign currency exposures between two currencies where one is not the US$ are deemed insignificant to the Group and have therefore been excluded from the sensitivity analysis: Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: and The impact of foreign currency movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of foreign currencies has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2007.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in foreign currency exchange rates over the course of a period of time.
If the US$ had gained lost 10% against all currencies significant to the Group at 31 December 2007 income would have been US$29 million higher lower 2006 US$1 million lower higher and equity would have been US$5 million lower higher 2006 US$4 million lower higher as a result of movements in the fair value of effective cash flow hedges.
250 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Financial Instruments continued Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices, with the commodity mix spread between those which are priced by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets and those that are set on a contract basis with customers, generally on an annual basis.
Commodity price risks arise in all major commodities that the Group produces.
Commodity price risk is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities and typically does not involve large-scale strategic hedging or price management initiatives.
Due to the volatile nature of commodity prices and the historical relationship between prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates, hedging may be entered into only in limited circumstances and subject to strict limits laid down by the Board of Directors.
Commodity hedging The Australian and Americas operations have gold forwards and collars to hedge prices of future sales.
The Australian and South African operations have entered into coal forwards to hedge prices of future sales of coal.
Financial Instruments continued Average Fair Average Fair price value price value Tonnes US$ US$m Tonnes US$ US$m 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Coal forwards US$ denominated contracts: South African FOB Maturing in less than 1 year 3,840,000 57.29 125 3,495,000 50.01 7 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 1,350,000 54.48 1 3,840,000 57.29 125 4,845,000 51.26 8 South African CIF Maturing in less than 1 year 600,000 68.72 27 1,140,000 65.46 4 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 600,000 68.72 600,000 68.72 27 1,740,000 66.58 4 Australian FOB Maturing in less than 1 year 350,000 50.51 1 350,000 50.51 1 Colombian FOB Maturing in less than 1 year 200,000 77.70 3 200,000 51.55 200,000 77.70 3 200,000 51.55 The maturities of these hedges reflects the expected timing of cash flows related to these instruments.
Classified as other commodity derivatives: Average Fair Average Fair price value price value Tonnes US$ US$m Tonnes US$ US$m 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Copper forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 4,9146,671.28 3 4,9146,671.28 3 Average Fair Average Fair price value price value Ounces US$ US$m Ounces US$ US$m 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Gold forwards AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 22,500 721.00 5 14,250 541.20 1 22,500 721.00 5 14,250 541.20 1 Gold forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 20,834 386.30 5 20,834 386.30 5 Gold options US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 31,500 475-594 8 8,500 500-560 1 31,500 475-594 8 8,500 500-560 1 252 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 36.
Financial Instruments continued Average Fair Average Fair forward value forward value Ounces rate % US$m Ounces rate % US$m 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Gold swaps AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 40,600 1.5 30,000 1.5 2 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 10,600 1.5 40,600 1.5 Maturing between 2 to 3 years 10,600 1.5 51,200 1.5 81,200 1.5 2 The IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis below has been prepared using the following assumptions: This analysis only takes into account commodities for which the Group has significant exposure: Fixed price sale and purchases contracts will not fluctuate with movements in commodity prices and are therefore excluded from this analysis: Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: and Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of commodity prices has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2007.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in commodity prices over the course of a period of time.
If prices for all commodities for which the Group has significant exposure had been 10% higher lower at 31 December 2007, income would have been US$105 million higher lower 2006 US$120 million higher lower and equity reserves would have been US$77 million lower higher 2006 US$108 million lower higher as a result of changes to reserves for commodity cash flow hedges.
There would be no other material changes in reserves of the company as at 31 December 2007 or 2006 other than those relating directly to income statement movements.
Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying value and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are not carried at fair value in the financial statements at 31 December: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m 2007 2007 2006 2006 Financial Liabilities: Capital market notes 6,216 6,001 4,132 4,200 Convertible borrowings 327 305 525 519 Equity minority interest loans 81 83 81 80 Finance leases 132 132 242 242 Preference shares 348 348 201 203 Other loans 54 54 11 Market rates at 31 December 2007 have been used to determine the fair value of fixed interest loans.
The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bonds are estimated using an equivalent market interest rate of a similar liability that does not have a conversion option as at the origination of the bond refer note 28.
Financial Instruments continued The following table shows the carrying amounts as at 31 December for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2007 2006 Financial Assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1,148 1,860 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss 54 44 Loans and receivables 3,150 3,054 Available-for-sale financial assets 203 170 Derivative financial assets 299 68 Financial Liabilities: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 16,922 18,681 Derivative financial liabilities 411 250 The following table shows the gains losses for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2007 2006 Financial Assets: Available-for-sale financial assets gain recognised in equity 49 1,892 Available-for-sale financial assets gain recognised in the income statement 63 Derivative financial instruments loss recognised in equity 261 78 Derivative financial instruments loss recognised in the income statement 115 125 Interest revenues and expenses are not included in the calculation of the gains losses of financial assets and liabilities.
Events After Balance Sheet Date Issue of share capital On 16 January 2008, 6,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP34.90 per share refer to note 26.
Jubilee Mines NL On 29 October 2007 the Group announced a cash offer for shares in Jubilee Mines NL Jubilee of AUD23 per share.
On 31 January 2008, the Group declared the offer free from all conditions, including a minimum 90% acceptance condition.
As at 22 February 2008, the Group held 97% of the total issued shares of Jubilee and commenced compulsory acquisition procedures under Australian law.
The total cost of this acquisition is expected to be US$2.9 billion.
No further information is presented on this business combination due to the short time period between the acquisition and the approval of these financial statements.
Resource Pacific Holdings Limited On 5 December 2007 the Group announced an unconditional cash offer for shares in Resource Pacific Holdings Limited Resource Pacific of AUD2.85 per share and on 8 February 2008 the offer price was increased to AUD3.20 per share.
As at 10 March 2008, the Group held 99% of the total issued shares of Resource Pacific and commenced compulsory acquisition procedures under Australian law.
The total cost of this acquisition is expected to be US$1.0 billion.
