Investor information pp p q p g Investor information Shareholder communications continued Shareholder communications Recent changes in company law allow us to provide shareholder Option 1.
We will send you an email alert when shareholder communications via a website rather than sending paper copies.
documents are published on a website.
You can help us reduce the impact on the environment, by taking If you wish to receive an email alert, you can register for advantage of these changes.
this option at the Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview website at www.
The advantage of registering with At our Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2007, we are seeking Shareview, is that you will gain access to a range of other your permission to change Yells Articles of Association to allow shareholder services and information.
If you have already us to make changes in the way you want us to communicate registered for email alerts with Shareview in respect of your with you.
Further details to the proposed changes are set out Yell shares, we will consider that you have chosen Option 1 in the explanatory notes of Resolution 18 contained in the and you need take no further action.
Notice of AGM on page 124 of this Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report.
We will advise you by letter, when shareholder documents are published on a website.
To choose this option, you need take no further action.
Subject to the passing of Resolution 18 at the AGM, you will have three choices in relation to how you receive Yell shareholder documents, such as notices of meetings B.
You can receive paper shareholder documents through and copies of Annual Report and Accounts in the future.
If you take no further action, we will consider that you Option 3.
You can receive paper shareholder documents have consented to Option 2. through the normal post.
You can continue to receive paper shareholder documents A.
You can receive shareholder documents electronically through the normal post, by completing the Shareholder by viewing them on a website Communications Election Form attached to the Proxy Form You can choose to receive shareholder documents electronically enclosed with this mailing and returning it to Lloyds TSB by viewing them on our website at www.
com or any Registrars by 19 August 2007. other website we may tell you about.
We will let you know when and where the documents are available for viewing, and Further information if there are any particular software requirements to view them.
Yell reserves the right to send paper shareholder documents in circumstances where Yell in its discretion believes that electronic delivery may not be appropriate.
Once you have decided to receive shareholder documents electronically, you can receive notices of their availability from us, via the following options.
You can change your decision on how you wish to receive shareholder documents by advising Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
A Option 1 Action 1 You can receive shareholder We will send you an email alert Register to receive email alerts documents by viewing them when shareholder documents through shareview.
co. uk on a website are published on a website Option 2 Action 2 We will send you a letter when Do nothing shareholder documents are published on a website Action 3 B Option 3 Complete and return the You can receive paper shareholder Continue to receive all Shareholder Communications documents through the post documents through the post Election Form by 19 August 2007 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 127
