qxp 7 6 07 11:30 am Page 65 Directors reports continued Statement of directors responsibilities Statement as to disclosure of information to Auditors Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Each director of Yell confirms that: a so far as he is aware, statements for each financial year that give a true and fair there is no relevant audit information of which Yells Auditors view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group are unaware: and b that he has taken all the steps that he and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that In preparing those financial statements the directors are Yells Auditors are aware of that information.
For these required to: purposes, relevant audit information means information Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them needed by Yells Auditors in connection with preparing their consistently report set out on pages 76 and 77.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Auditors State whether applicable accounting standards have been Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to explained in the financial statements determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Annual General Meeting.
 LLP have unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will confirmed their willingness to continue in office.
continue in business Annual General Meeting The directors confirm that they have complied with the above The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held on requirements in preparing the financial statements.
19 July 2007, together with an explanation of the business to be dealt with at the meeting, appears on pages 122 to 126.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time By order of the Board the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Howard Rubenstein Company Secretary The directors are responsible for maintaining the integrity of 5 June 2007 the financial information, including the Annual Report, on the Yell Group plc website, www.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 65
