qxp 11 6 07 06:59 Page 122 Investor information Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice of Annual General Meeting is important and Resolution 4 requires your immediate attention.
If you have any doubt as That John Condron be re-elected as a director.
to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, Resolution 5 bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser That John Davis be re-elected as a director.
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your Resolution 6 ordinary shares in Yell Group plc, please send this document, That Lyndon Lea be re-elected as a director.
together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent Resolution 7 through whom the sale or transfer was effected for That Lord Powell of Bayswater be re-elected as a director.
transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Resolution 8 Notice is hereby given that the 2007 Annual General That Robert Scott be re-elected as a director.
Meeting of Yell Group plc the Company will be held at The Plaisterers Hall, No.
1 London Wall, London, EC2Y 5JU on Resolution 9 Thursday 19 July 2007 at 11.00am to consider the following That John Coghlan be re-elected as a director.
resolutions: Resolution 10 Ordinary Resolutions That Joachim Eberhardt be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 1 Resolution 11 That the report of the directors and auditors, and the audited That Richard Hooper be re-elected as a director.
accounts of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2007 be received and considered.
Resolution 12 That Tim Bunting be elected as a director.
The directors are required by law to present to the shareholders of the Company at a general meeting the report As a matter of best practice, all of the directors of the of the directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of the Company believe that they should retire and submit Company, for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The report of the themselves for re-election at the 2007 Annual General directors and the audited accounts have been approved by the Meeting.
As Tim Bunting is a new appointment, shareholder directors, and the report of the auditors has been approved by approval to his election to the Board is required at the 2007 the auditors, and a copy of each of these documents may be Annual General Meeting, the first such meeting since his found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at appointment.
Biographical details of all of the directors of the Company Resolution 2 may be found in the Annual Report of the Company starting That the final dividend of 11.4 pence per ordinary share in the at page 62.
Company recommended by the directors be declared and, if approved, payable on 27 July 2007 to holders of ordinary Resolution 13 shares in the Company registered at the close of business on That  LLP be re-appointed Auditors 29 June 2007. of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company before which It is a requirement of law that the final dividend for the year accounts are laid.
ended 31 March 2007 be approved by the shareholders of the Company.
The amount to be declared as a final dividend may The Auditors are responsible for examining the annual not exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
accounts of the Company and forming an opinion as to whether they give a true and fair view of its results and Resolution 3 financial position.
It is a requirement of law that the Company That the report on the remuneration of directors for the year appoint auditors at each meeting at which accounts are ended 31 March 2007 be approved.
presented to its shareholders, such appointment to continue until the next meeting at which accounts are presented.
The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require companies to include certain specified information on the remuneration of their directors for each financial year in a report and to give their shareholders an opportunity to approve such report.
The report on the remuneration of the directors of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2007 may be found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at page 66.
122 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Investor information pp p q p g Investor information continued Resolution 14 Resolution 17 That the directors be authorised to determine the That in accordance with Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 remuneration of the auditors.
the Company, and Yell Limited being a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, each be and is authorised: This resolution gives the directors of the Company the a to make donations to EU political organisations not authority to determine the remuneration of the auditors for exceeding 100,000 in total the audit work to be carried out by them in the next financial b to incur EU political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to the auditors for in total, during the period beginning with the date of the the next financial year will be disclosed in the next audited passing of this resolution and ending on the date of the accounts of the Company.
For the purpose of this resolution, the phrases donations, EU political organisations and EU political expenditure have the Resolution 15 meanings given to them in section 347A of that Act.
That the authorised share capital of the Company be and is hereby increased from 9,363,200 to 10,403,200 by the creation of an additional 104,000,000 ordinary shares of The Companies Act 1985 includes provisions which require 1 pence each.
companies to obtain authority from their shareholders before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur It is proposed to increase the authorised share capital of the EU political expenditure.
The definitions of donations and Company by the creation of 104,000,000 ordinary shares of EU political expenditure are very broad and, as a result, may 1 pence each, so that the capital of the Company is increased cover activities which form part of the normal non-partisan from 9,363,200 to 10,403,200, divided into 1,040,320,000 relationships between companies and the political world, even ordinary shares of 1 pence each representing a 11.1 per cent though these activities are not designed to support a particular increase in the Companys authorised share capital.
This political party or to influence support for any political party, and increase is to provide the Company with sufficient headroom would not be thought as political donations in the ordinary to issue new shares to the full amount allowed by the usual sense of the word.
shareholder authorities for the issuing of new shares.
The Company does not, directly or through any of its subsidiaries, make donations to any political parties and the Resolution 16 Company does not have any intention of doing so in the That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised future.
However, operating as we do in a regulated under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the environment, we have a business need to maintain contact powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in with politicians and political parties within the EU to make that Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,597,497.93 them aware of key issues affecting the Company and its if resolution 15 is passed or 1,569,926.88 if resolution 15 is not subsidiaries, and the industry in which the Company and its passed.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next subsidiaries operate.
This can involve, for example, Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date involvement in seminars and functions to which politicians of this resolution.
However, before this authority expires, the may be invited and sponsoring meetings at political parties Company may make an offer or agreement which would or conferences.
Accordingly, in common with other companies, might require relevant securities to be allotted after the the Company is seeking the approval of its shareholders, on authority expires and the directors may allot relevant securities a precautionary basis so as to avoid contravening the under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not Companies Act 1985, to incur a level of expenditure to cover expired.
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 provides that the directors of a company cannot issue new shares in its capital without the approval of its shareholders.
Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to give the directors of the Company authority to issue new shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum amount of 2,597,497.93 which is approximately equivalent to 33.3 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2007.
If resolution 15 is not passed, this resolution will give the directors authority to issue new shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum amount of 1,569,926.88 which is approximately equivalent to 20 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2007.
This resolution will allow the directors of the Company flexibility to act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders by issuing new shares in appropriate circumstances.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 123 pp p q p g Investor information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special Resolutions It is anticipated that shareholders may be asked to approve further changes to our Articles of Association during the course Resolution 18 of the next two annual general meetings as may be necessary.
That the Articles of Association in the form produced to this Annual General Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for In addition, since our Articles of Association were adopted in the purposes of identification be adopted as the new Articles 2004, the Companies Act 1985 has been amended to provide of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the for a relaxation of the prohibition against the granting of exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
This change to company law came into force on 6 April 2005.
It is proposed to use this opportunity to The new Articles of Association that are proposed reflect amend our Articles of Association to reflect the new provisions amendments to company law made by those provisions of the under the Companies Act 1985.
Companies Act 2006 which came into effect in January and April 2007.
In summary, these changes are to: Under the old law, subject to certain exceptions, provisions in a permit the Company to communicate with its shareholders the articles of association of a company or in any contract with electronically as prescribed in the Companies Act 2006: a company were void if they sought to exempt a director, the b replace the references to section 212 of the Companies Act company secretary or its auditors from liability, or indemnify 1985 with section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect such an officer or auditor against any such liability, for of the Companys powers to investigate its shareholder negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust.
register: and c delete the provisions relating to section 293 of the The changes to the Companies Act 1985 mean that i Companies Act 1985 to reflect the repeal of this section and companies will not be permitted to indemnify a director of removal from company legislation of an upper age limit of another company in its group if the indemnity would be 70 years for directors.
unlawful if it was given by the Company of which the individual is a director: ii the restrictions only apply to directors and not The key change so far introduced by the Companies Act 2006 to officers: iii in the case of liabilities arising from actions is the ability for companies to use website communication with brought by third parties, both the costs of the director and its shareholders as the default position.
The Company will be of the third party and any damages may, subject to certain able to ask each individual shareholder for their consent to exclusions, be paid by the Company even if the judgement receive communications from the Company via its website.
goes against the director: iv in the case of liabilities owing If the shareholder does not respond to the request for consent to the Company, the Company will not be able to indemnify within 28 days, the Company may take that as consent to a director against damages awarded to the Company itself receive communications in this way.
When the Company places but may pay directors defence costs as they are incurred a document on its website, it must notify each shareholder although a director would be liable to repay his defence costs who is receiving documents via the website that the document if his defence was to be unsuccessful : v companies will not has been made available on its website.
A shareholder who has be permitted to indemnify directors against criminal fines, received a document electronically can ask for a hard copy of fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal the document at any time and shareholders may also revoke proceedings against directors: and vi indemnities permitted their consent to receive electronic communications at any time.
by the new provisions must be disclosed in the directors report This new regime, while continuing to ensure that shareholders on the annual accounts and made available for inspection at are able to receive communications and documents in hard the Companys registered office.
copy if that is their preference, will enable the Company to take advantage of the efficiencies and cost savings inherent in It is proposed that our Articles of Association be amended to electronic communications to a greater extent than is currently reflect this change to company law.
is a permissive power that tracks the wording of the new provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and allows the Company With effect from 1 October 2007, the Companies Act 2006 to indemnify its directors subject to those provisions.
will reduce the statutory notice periods for general meetings.
Except for annual general meetings which will continue to require 21 days notice, all other general meetings may be held on 14 days notice irrespective of whether or not a special resolution is to be proposed at the relevant meeting.
We are proposing to amend our Articles of Association to reflect this relaxation in the law.
The Government has announced that it intends to bring into force the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in various stages in October 2007, April 2008 and October 2008.
124 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Investor information pp p q p g Investor information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 19 c the maximum price which the Company may pay for an That, provided resolution 16 is passed, the directors be ordinary share in the Company shall be the higher of: authorised under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to i an amount equivalent to 105 per cent of the average allot equity securities as defined in section 94 of that Act of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them by in the Company as set out in the Daily Official List resolution 16, or where such allotment constitutes the published by London Stock Exchange for the five allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of business days immediately before the day on which that Act, as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any the Company agrees to purchase ordinary shares in such allotment.
This authority is limited to: the Company a allotments connected to a rights issue to holders of ordinary ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade shares in the Company excluding any ordinary shares held and highest current independent bid on the London by the Company as treasury shares where the rights of Stock Exchange Trading System SETS the trading each such holder are, as nearly as may be, proportionate venue where the purchase is carried out : and to the number of ordinary shares held by such holder.
d this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next The directors may exclude certain shareholders, deal with Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from fractions and generally manage the rights issue as they the date of this resolution.
However, before this authority think fit: and expires, the Company may agree to purchase ordinary b the allotment other than pursuant to sub-paragraph shares in the Company where the purchase will or may be a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal completed, either fully or partly, after the authority expires value of 389,663. and the Company may purchase such ordinary shares as if This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next the authority had not expired.
Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
However, before this authority The directors consider, in certain circumstances, that it may be expires, the Company may make an offer or agreement appropriate and in the best interest of shareholders generally which would or might require equity securities to be for the Company to purchase its own shares.
This resolution allotted after the authority expires and the directors may gives authority for the Company to purchase up to 77,932,731 allot securities under any such offer or agreement as if the ordinary shares which is approximately equivalent to 10 per authority had not expired.
cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2007.
The directors have no specific plans to exercise any Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 gives existing authority granted by this resolution in the future, but will keep shareholders in a company certain pre-emption rights with the matter under review and will only make purchases where, respect to allotments of new shares.
A company can only in the light of prevailing market conditions, they consider it disapply these rights with the approval of its shareholders.
will result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share in Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to allow the the Company.
directors of the Company to allot ordinary shares in the Company for cash, or to transfer treasury shares for cash, The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares other than to its existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in the Company outstanding as at 4 June 2007 was 25,110,416. up to a maximum amount of 389,663 which is equivalent to This represents 3.22 per cent of the issued ordinary share 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company capital of the Company at that date.
If the Company were to as at 4 June 2007 and is in line with the recommended buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant guidelines issued by institutional investor bodies.
to the passing of this resolution and cancel them, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares in the Resolution 20 Company outstanding as at 4 June 2007 would represent That, pursuant to Article 20 of its Articles of Association, the 3.58 per cent of the reduced issued ordinary share capital of Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to the Company.
purchase its own fully-paid ordinary shares in the Company by way of market purchases within the meaning of section The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 provided that: Regulations 2003 which came into force on 1 December 2003 a the maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company enable companies to retain any of their own shares they have that the Company may purchase is 77,932,731: purchased as treasury shares with a view to their possible b the minimum price that the Company may pay for an re-issue at a later date, rather than cancelling them as the law ordinary share in the Company is 1.00 pence: previously required.
The Company will consider holding any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to this resolution as treasury shares, which will give the directors flexibility in the management of the capital base of the Company.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares while held in treasury, and no voting rights will attach to them.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 125 pp p q p g Investor information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The directors of the Company consider that all the proposals service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to best interests of its shareholders as a whole and they ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST recommend that you vote in favour of them.
system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or Only holders of ordinary shares in the Company on the voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those Register of Members of the Company at 11am on 17 July 2007 sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
of the CREST system and timings.
A holder of ordinary shares in the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction a proxy or proxies to vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the shareholder of the Company.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST Documents CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies The following documentation is available for inspection during through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may business hours at the registered office of the Company on any do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 July weekday not including public holidays.
They will also be 2007 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting venue, described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or from 9.30am until the meeting concludes: other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members Register of interest of directors and their families in the who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer share capital of the Company to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will Copy of all service contracts between the directors and the be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Company Copy of the existing and proposed new Articles of In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using Association of the Company the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message Printed copies of this Notice of Annual General Meeting and a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated the Companys Annual Report 2006 7 in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described Further copies of the Companys Annual Report can be sent to in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it shareholders on request, or viewed on the Companys website constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment at www.
to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the By order of the Board issuers agent ID 7RA01 by 11am on 17 July 2007.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions Howard Rubenstein to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated Company Secretary to the appointee through other means.
5 June 2007 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors Registered Office: or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not Queens Walk, Reading make available special procedures in CREST for any particular Berkshire RG1 7PT messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will Registered in England and Wales No.
4180320 therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting 126 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007
