Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary ADF JLTV Australian Defence Force.
AGS KPI Advanced Gun System: a 155mm gun system.
AGM LCM Annual General Meeting.
Lifecycle Management: a process and control environment within which the Companys projects are executed.
ATTAC Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft Contract.
Line leader An individual with specific profit and loss accountability for a business.
Bradley Tracked armoured fighting vehicles which fulfil critical infantry, cavalry, LTPA fire support, battle command and engineer roles for the US Army.
C4ISR M88 Hercules Command, Control, Communications and Computing C4, Intelligence, A fully-tracked, armoured recovery vehicle.
Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR : systems that provide a precise M113 picture of the battlefield in real-time, optimising the information Armoured personnel carriers, medical, command and control, and available for decision making.
CTOL M777 Conventional Take-off and Landing.
CV9035 MMPV An armoured infantry fighting vehicle developed by BAE Systems Land Medium Mine Protected Vehicle.
Systems Hagglunds to meet international demand.
MoD CVF UKs Ministry of Defence.
The UKs future aircraft carrier.
MRAP DDG-1000 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected wheeled vehicle.
A next-generation destroyer for the US Navy.
Nimrod MRA4 Defence Industrial Strategy The replacement Maritime and Patrol Attack aircraft for the UKs Royal Published by the UK government in December 2005 following Air Force.
consultation with industry, recognises the skills and capabilities that NLOS-C will be needed to equip and support the UK armed forces and ensure Non-Line-of-Sight Cannon.
the UK defence industry remains world-leading.
OAS EW Operational Assurance Statement: a six-monthly review of internal Electronic Warfare.
controls and risk management processes.
FCS OF Future Combat System.
Operational Framework: the Companys common framework for FMTV operational and financial controls.
Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles.
PAAMS FRES Principal Anti-Air Missile System.
Aster PAAMS: a medium-range antiFuture Rapid Effect System: the UK Ministry of Defence MoD aircraft vertical launching missile system based on the Aster 15 and programme to provide the British Army with a family of medium-weight, Aster 30 anti-missile missiles.
PCL FRS Performance Centred Leadership: a leadership and performance Financial Reporting Standards.
management system used throughout the Company.
FV430 Bulldog QBR An armoured personnel carrier.
GAAP RAF Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
GDP RSAF Gross Domestic Product.
The Royal Saudi Air Force.
HERTI RSNF Highly autonomous medium-altitude long-endurance unmanned The Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
RG31, RG32 and RG33 HMMWV Mine protected armoured personnel carriers.
High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle.
Sting Ray Home market A lightweight torpedo.
A market is one in which the Group has a strong domestic presence STOVL and is a key part of the defence industry capability in that country.
BAE Systems has six home markets: Australia: Saudi Arabia: South Short Take-Off and Vertical Landing.
Africa: Sweden: the UK and the US.
THAAD IBP Thermal High Altitude Area Defense.
TRMC IDIQ Treasury Review Management Committee.
Indefinite-Delivery Indefinite-Quantity: a US government contract TWS allowing flexibility for orders.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
