BAE Systems at a glance Annual Report online BAE Systems Group strategy is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence and aerospace company.
You can now view the BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 on our website, along with further information about our 4 BAE Systems, with 97,500 employees worldwide, delivers a full range of products and services for air, land and performance, information for the Annual General Meeting and our latest presentations.
naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and customer support services.
Get more online Delivering global growth Search the Report for key information You can quickly and easily search Group Electronics, Intelligence Land & Armaments Programmes & Support International Businesses BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 for the information you would like to & Support read.
Simply type in the words you would like to search for, and the relevant pages will be listed for you to choose.
Key points Principal operations Electronics, Intelligence & Support provides Land & Armaments provides design, Programmes & Support comprises the Groups International Businesses comprises the Groups a variety of communications, electronic development, production, through-life support UK-based air, naval and underwater systems businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia, identification, navigation and guidance systems, and upgrade of armoured combat vehicles, activities, the Integrated System Technologies together with a 37.5% interest in the panGood financial performance network-centric warfare solutions and a broad tactical wheeled vehicles, naval guns, missile business and a 50% interest in the Gripen European MBDA joint venture and a 20.5% Continued growth from US businesses range of support solutions, including major ship launchers, artillery systems and intelligent International joint venture.
interest in Saab of Sweden.
Leadership position established in global land systems sector repair activities for the US Navy.
1 3 2 3 Sales by business group % EBITA by business group % Main operating 21 24 26 27 locations 22 19 33 Links to further 28 Download our corporate information reporting literature From the Shareholder Reporting All BAE Systems corporate reports will section of our website you can link Electronics, Intelligence & Support Electronics, Intelligence & Support be available as downloadable pdfs to other areas of interest, including Land & Armaments Land & Armaments from this section of the website.
the Annual Report, financial Programmes & Support Programmes & Support Major markets calendar and much more.
International Businesses International Businesses US, UK, Global US, UK, Sweden, South Africa, Global UK, Global UK Europe, Middle East, Australia Download the latest Key points Continued leadership in the provision High volume of vehicle reset and RAF Typhoons now operational Saudi Typhoon contract secured presentations from 2007 of electronic warfare systems upgrade activity Full six ship Type 45 contract awarded Investment in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 15,710m 1,477m Keep up to date with our New markets developing for the HybriDrive UK business returned to profitability continues Launch of first of class Astute submarine 4 2 presentations on performance Sales for 2007 EBITA for 2007 propulsion systems Wheeled armoured vehicle successes Down-selection for the provision of vehicles from our Results Centre.
Orders received for second and third Astute Stable demand for ship repair services for the Australian Defence Force Good progress in next-generation combat Class submarines vehicle programmes Proposed acquisition of Tenix Defence Offshore Patrol Vessel arbitration settled Access the Notice of announced in January 2008 Meeting and vote online You will find the Notice of Meeting for our 2008 Annual General HQ & Other Businesses Meeting available here.
You can also vote electronically on Visit the 2007 Shareholder Reporting Centre at: the resolutions proposed at HQ & Other Businesses comprises the regional the meeting.
com investors reporting aircraft asset management and support activities, head office and UK shared services activity, including research centres and property Shareholder feedback 1 before elimination of intra-group sales management.
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense If you would like to give us any feedback on this years Annual Report, 3 excluding HQ & Other Businesses please send your written comments to our investor relations team at: 4 including share of equity accounted investments BAE Systems plc 6 Carlton Gardens p36 p28 p30 p32 p34 London SW1 5AD United Kingdom or by e-mail to andy.
com The paper used in this document has FSC certification and is sourced from well managed forests and controlled sources certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Annual Report 2007 Delivering global growth REAL PERFORMANCE.
BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2007 BAE Systems plc Annual Report 2007 6 Carlton Gardens Contents London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom See overleaf for an overview Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 of our business today Registered in England and Wales No.
com Directors report Results in brief, highlights Chairmans letter 2 Delivering global growth and outlook 1 Executive leadership 4 Chief Executives review 6 Land & Armaments 30 Business review Strategic overview 12 Programmes & Support 32 Implementing our strategy 14 International Businesses 34 Financial review 18 HQ & Other Businesses 36 Key Performance Indicators KPIs 25 Corporate responsibility review 37 Business group reviews 27 Risk management and principal risks 44 Electronics, Intelligence & Support 28 Resources 51 Board of directors 54 Other statutory and reguatory Corporate governance information, including statement Corporate governance 56 of directors responsibilities 84 Remuneration report 64 Financial statements Index to the accounts 88 Company balance sheet 135 Independent auditors report 89 Notes to the Company accounts 136 Consolidated financial statements 90 Five year summary 144 Notes to the Group accounts 94 Shareholder information Shareholder information 146 Glossary 148 Financial calendar 147 Annual Report online 149 Shareholder feedback 149 The following symbols are used Annual and Interim Reports in Further information within this Report digital format online They point you towards further To receive shareholder communications information either within the report electronically in future, including or online.
your Annual Report, visit: www.
com annualreport p67 Cross reference within report For more information visit www.
com Annual Report 2007 Cover image: Cautionary statement RG33 Mine Resistant All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy, Delivering global growth Ambush Protected vehicle plans and objectives and the markets and economies in which it operates, are forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements which reflect managements assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties n respect of this report save as would arise under English law.
In particular, section 463 Companies Act 2006 limits the liability of the directors of BAE Systems plc so that their liability is solely REAL PERFORMANCE.
