Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Other statutory and regulatory information Principal activities each, 275,000,000 7.75p net cumulative redeemable preference The BAE Systems Group delivers, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries shares of 25p each and one Special Share of 1. and equity accounted investments, a full range of products and As at 31 December 2007, BAE Systems issued share capital of services for air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, 89,362,726 comprised 3,574,509,017 ordinary shares of 2.5p information technology solutions and customer support services.
each and one Special Share of 1.
Directors Rights and obligations of ordinary shares The current directors who served during the 2007 financial year are On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary listed on pages 54 to 55.
Of those directors, Ian King was appointed shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have to the Board on 1 January 2007, Walt Havenstein on 2 January 2007 one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and Andy Inglis on 13 June 2007.
On 16 October 2007 the Company and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
announced that Mike Turner, the Chief Executive, would be retiring at Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles the end of August 2008. of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend The following directors also served on the Board in 2007 from where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
1 January 2007 to the date of their retirement as stated below: Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, on a return of capital on a winding-up, holders of Director Date retired from the Board ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment of the 1 Special Share, Professor Sue Birley 9 May 2007 to participate in such a return.
Dr Ulrich Cartellieri 26 September 2007 Rights and obligations of cumulative redeemable preference shares Chris Geoghegan 31 December 2007 Following conversion of all the cumulative redeemable preference Steve Mogford 9 May 2007 shares in issue into ordinary shares pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, there were no cumulative redeemable Dividend preference shares in issue as at 31 December 2007.
The Company An interim dividend of 5.0 pence per share was paid on 30 November has no intention of re-issuing such shares and the effect of a special 2007.
The directors propose a final dividend of 7.8p per ordinary resolution to be proposed at the 2008 AGM will be, amongst other share.
Subject to approval of the shareholders, the final dividend will things, to delete the provisions of the Articles of Association relating be paid on 2 June 2008 to shareholders on the share register on to such shares.
Rights and obligations of the Special Share Annual General Meeting AGM The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for Trade The Companys AGM will be held on 7 May 2008.
The Notice of Annual and Industry the Special Shareholder now the Secretary of State General Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and details the for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
Certain provisions resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
of the Companys Articles of Association cannot be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These provisions include the Office of Fair Trade undertakings requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in As a consequence of the merger between British Aerospace and concert, can have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the former Marconi Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, the the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, the Company gave certain undertakings to the Secretary of State for Trade requirement that decisions of the directors at their meetings, in their and Industry now the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and committees or via resolution must be approved by a majority of British Regulatory Reform.
In February 2007, the Company was released directors and the requirement that the chief executive and any from the majority of these undertakings and the remainder have been executive chairman are British.
superseded and varied by a new set of undertakings.
Compliance with the undertakings is monitored by a compliance officer.
Further The holder of the Special Share is entitled to attend a general meeting, information regarding the undertakings and the contact details of the but the Special Share carries no right to vote or any other rights at any compliance officer may be obtained through the Company Secretary such meeting, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect at the Companys registered office or through the Companys website.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, on a return of capital on a Supplier payment policy winding-up, the Special Share shall be entitled to repayment of the It is Group policy that each business unit is in compliance with 1 capital paid up on the Special Share in priority to any repayment local best practice in the country of operation in respect of supplier of capital to any other members.
Agreed payment schedules are maintained provided that the supplier complies with all relevant terms and conditions.
It is The holder of the Special Share has the right to require the Company Group policy that changes to the agreed payment schedule are only to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Special Share into made with the prior agreement of the supplier.
one ordinary share at any time.
The average number of days credit provided in 2007 by suppliers was Treasury shares 39 days 2006 37 days.
As at the date of this report 61,945,000 ordinary shares were held in treasury.
The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance with Charitable donations the Companies Acts and, in particular, the voting rights attaching to During 2007, the amount donated for charitable purposes in the UK these shares are automatically suspended.
Further details of the Companys charitable activities are set out on page 40.
Restrictions on transfer of securities The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as follows: Political donations the Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred No political donations were made in 2007. to the Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee: Structure of share capital the directors shall not register any allotment or transfer of any As at 31 December 2007, the Companys authorised share capital of shares to a foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, 180,000,001 comprised 4,450,000,000 ordinary shares of 2.5p 84 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information who at the time have more than a 15% voting interest in the The majority of directors holding office must be British.
Otherwise Company, or who would, following such allotment or transfer, the directors who are not British shall vacate office in such order have such an interest: that those who have been in office for the shortest period since their appointment shall vacate their office first, unless all of the directors the directors shall not register any person as a holder of any otherwise agree among themselves.
Any director who holds the office shares unless they have received: i a declaration stating that of either chairman in an executive capacity or chief executive shall upon registration, the share s will not be held by foreign persons also be British.
or that upon registration the share s will be held by a foreign person or persons: ii such evidence if any as the directors may require The Company must have six directors holding office at all times.
If the of the authority of the signatory of the declaration: and iii such number is reduced to below six, then such number of persons shall evidence or information if any as to the matters referred to in the be appointed as directors as soon as is reasonably practicable to declaration as the directors consider appropriate: reinstate the number of directors to six.
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary the minimum number of directors.
the directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register any transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as to prevent At each AGM of the Company, any director who was elected or last dealings in listed shares from taking place : re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the then current calendar year must retire by rotation and such further the directors may also refuse to register any instrument of transfer directors must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one-third of shares unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one of the directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring director is eligible class of share and it is lodged at the place where the register of for re-election.
members is kept, accompanied by a relevant certificate or such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association the right of the transferor to make the transfer: The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where class the directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of rights are varied, such amendments must be approved by the members shares in favour of more than four persons jointly: of each class of shares separately.
where a shareholder has failed to provide the Company with certain In addition, certain provisions of the Articles of Association cannot information relating to their interest in shares, the directors can, in be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These certain circumstance, refuse to register a transfer of such shares: provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting interest and regulations for example, insider trading laws : in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are British, the requirement that decisions of the directors at their restrictions may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of meetings, in their committees or via resolution must be approved the Financial Services Authority whereby certain of the Groups by a majority of British directors and the requirement that the chief employees require the Companys approval to deal in shares: and executive and any executive chairman are British.
awards of shares made under the Companys share incentive plan At the 2008 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association The Company is not aware of any arrangements between its primarily in order to accommodate the provisions of the new shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares Companies Act 2006. and or voting rights.
Powers of the directors Significant direct and indirect holders of securities The directors are responsible for the management of the business As at 20 February 2008, the Company had been advised of the following of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject significant direct and indirect interests in the issued ordinary share to applicable legislation and regulation and the Memorandum and capital of the Company: Articles of Association.
AXA S. A. and its group of companies 10.32% At the 2007 AGM, the directors were given the power to buy back Barclays PLC 3.98% a maximum number of 320,008,915 ordinary shares at a minimum Capital Group Companies, Inc. 6.99% price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was an amount equal to 105% Franklin Resources, Inc. and affiliates 4.92% of the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Legal and General Group Plc 4.07% Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased.
This Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes power will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2008 AGM or The Trustees of the employee trusts do not seek to exercise 9 August 2008.
A special resolution will be proposed at the 2008 voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No voting rights are AGM to renew the Companys authority to acquire its own shares.
exercised in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
As part of a share buyback programme which commenced in October Restrictions on voting deadlines 2006, the Company repurchased 33,270,000 of its ordinary shares The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for having a nominal value of 831,750 during 2007 for an aggregate exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in consideration of approximately 147m.
The shares repurchased relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
The represented 0.93% of the called-up share capital of the Company as at number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each 31 December 2007.
No further shares have been repurchased since resolution are publicised on the Companys website after the meeting.
The repurchased shares are held in treasury.
Appointment and replacement of directors At the 2007 AGM, the directors were given the power to issue new Subject to certain nationality requirements mentioned below, the shares up to an amount of 26,664,742.
This power will expire on Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a director.
the earlier of the conclusion of the 2008 AGM or 8 August 2008.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 85 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Other statutory and regulatory information continued Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the 2008 AGM to renew and have elected to prepare the parent company financial the Companys authority to issue further new shares.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Directors indemnities The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with all its current The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as directors and those persons who were directors for any part of 2007 adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in Companies Act 2006.
A similar indemnity has been provided to relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant Sir Richard Evans, a former director who retired from the Board on part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view 30 June 2004 but remained an employee of the Company in a partare references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give Change of control significant agreements a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial counterparties to exercise termination, alteration or other similar statements, the directors are required to: rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Group has entered into a 1.5bn Revolving Credit Facility dated them consistently: 1 February 2005 as amended and a 500m Letter of Credit Facility dated 27 March 2006, which provide that, in the event of a change make judgements and estimates that are reasonable of control of the Company, the lenders are entitled to renegotiate and prudent: terms, or if no agreement is reached on negotiated terms within for the Group financial statements, state whether they have a certain period, to call for the prepayment or cancellation of the been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: facilities.
The Revolving Credit Facility was undrawn as at 31 December 2007: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject The Company has entered into a Restated and Amended to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Shareholders Agreement with European Aeronautic Defence company financial statements: and and Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and Finmeccanica S. p. A Finmeccanica relating to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis as amended.
In the event that control of the Company passes to unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the certain specified third party acquirors, the agreement allows EADS parent company will continue in business.
and Finmeccanica to exercise an option to terminate certain The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records executive management level nomination and voting rights and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial certain shareholder information rights of the Company in relation position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its to the MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise of this option, financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They the Company would have the right to require the other shareholders have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably to purchase its interest in MBDA at fair market value.
The Company open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and EADS have agreed that if Finmeccanica acquires a controlling and detect fraud and other irregularities.
interest in the Company, EADS will increase its shareholding in MBDA to 50% by purchasing the appropriate number of shares in Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also MBDA at fair market value: responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that The Company, BAE Systems North America Inc. now BAE Systems, law and those regulations.
Inc. and BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into a Special Security Agreement dated 29 November 2000 with the US Department of Statement of disclosure of information to auditors Defense regarding the management of BAE Systems, Inc. in order The directors who held office at the date of approval of this to comply with the US governments national security requirements.
Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Agreement is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors may be terminated or altered by the US Department of Defense.
are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken to make himself aware of any relevant audit In addition, the Companys share plans contain provisions as a result information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on of that information.
a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
By order of the Board Auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the Company, have indicated their David Parkes willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing their Company Secretary re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
20 February 2008 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law 86 www.
baesyste ms. com Financial statements Independent auditors report 89 Consolidated financial statements 90 Notes to the Group accounts 94 Company balance sheet 135 Notes to the Company accounts 136 Five year summary 144 The first of class Type 45 destroyer, HMS Daring, successfully completed her stage one sea trials on schedule in August 2007.
