Our accounts Our business Our governance Our accounts 81 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Contents Shareholder information Registrars and transfer office Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT Our business or visit the Mailing Preference Service website at www.
Balfour Beatty is a world-class All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to receive Our performance 01 corporate documents by email should, in the first instance, be directed to the Gifting shares to your family or to charity engineering, construction, Companys Registrars and clearly state the shareholders registered address Overview 03 and, if available, the full shareholder reference number.
Please write to: To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Financial review 04 Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have services and investment business Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you Directors valuation of PPP concessions 06 Telephone 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift well-positioned in infrastructure network extras and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Monday Principal risks and risk management 08 registered charity no.
1052686, whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
Alternatively you can email them at: Any shares that you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when ssd@capitaregistrars.
markets which offer significant possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other UK They can help you to: charities.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 11m has been given to almost check your shareholding: 1,500 charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the long-term growth.
register a change of address or name: Registrars: further information about the scheme is available from the ShareGift obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax voucher: Internet site www.
record the death of a shareholder: amalgamate multiple accounts: We work in partnership with Share dealing services resolve any other question about your shareholding.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing sophisticated customers service for UK resident shareholders.
To use this service, shareholders should Dividend mandates contact Capita Registrars on 0870 458 4577 or visit www.
Our governance If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society who value the highest levels of The Company has also established an execution-only postal share dealing account, you should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
Directors report 10 service, through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, for private investors who wish to Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing quality, safety and technical buy or sell Balfour Beatty plcs shares.
Further details can be obtained from: System BACS.
Information about Balfour Beattys Dividend Reinvestment Plan Remuneration report 16 DRIP can also be obtained from the Registrars.
The Balfour Beatty Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited expertise.
Our skills are applied 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, Telephone: 020 7155 5155 Shareholder information on the internet and Alternatively, a low-cost, execution-only postal share dealing service for the electronic communications in appropriate combinations to purchase and sale of Balfour Beatty plc shares is available from Pershing The Balfour Beatty website at www.
com offers shareholders and Securities Ltd.
The service is restricted to UK residents, and transactions are meet individual customer need.
prospective investors a wealth of information about the Company, its people limited to u15,000 approximately 10,000 in value.
For details, please contact: and businesses and its policies on corporate governance and corporate Pershing Securities Ltd, Broker Services Team, The Royal Liver Building, Pier responsibility.
It should be regarded as your first point of reference for Head, Liverpool L3 1LL, Tel: 020 7661 6616 purchases, 020 7661 6617 sales information on any of these matters.
Our strategy, which is set out in Capita IRG Trustees Limited, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Pershing Securities In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you can access and manage your Ltd are each authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
shareholdings whenever and wherever you like.
By creating a Share Portal the following pages, is designed Pershing Securities Ltd is also a member of LIFFE and the London Stock Exchange.
account, you are able to access the full range of online services, including the ability to: Share price to continue to deliver strong, view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation: The Balfour Beatty share price can be found at the Balfour Beatty website view movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history: reliable, responsible growth at www.
com and in the appropriate sections of national register a bank mandate to have your dividends paid directly into your newspapers under the classification Construction and Building Materials.
bank account: It is also available on Ceefax and Teletext and a number of personal finance change your registered address: in shareholder value over the websites on the Internet.
Historic share prices are available from the library sign-up to receive e-communications or access the online proxy voting facility: at Hoare Govett.
Telephone: 020 7678 5926. download and print shareholder forms.
Our accounts The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: The Share Portal is easy to use.
You can take control of your shareholding and Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc 23 Ordinary shares: 0096162 keep your details up to date.
Preference shares: 0097820 Alternatively, you can email: shareportal@capita.
Group income statement 24 Balfour Beatty actively supports Climate Care, a not-for-profit organisation The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Group statement of recognised income and expense 24 that funds global sustainable energy and forest restoration projects that reduce Ordinary shares: BBY Company income statement 25 greenhouse gases.
Preference shares: BBYB As well as cutting greenhouse gasses, Climate Cares projects also help to Company statement of recognised income and expense 25 improve peoples standard of living and to protect wildlife habitats.
For more Capital gains tax information on Climate Care, visit www.
Balance sheets 26 In support of the Climate Care programme, Balfour Beatty will donate For capital gains tax purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour Cash flow statements 27 1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers to receive shareholder Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 307.3p per share.
This has been communications electronically.
Notes to the accounts 28 adjusted for the 1-for-5 rights issue in June 1992 and the 2-for-11 rights issue in September 1996.
Unsolicited mail Group historical summary 80 Enquiries Balfour Beatty is obliged by law to make its share register available on request Shareholder information 81 to other organisations who may then use it as a mailing list.
This may result Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position in you receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited should be made in writing to the Corporate Communications Department at the mail, you may do so by writing to the Mailing Preference Service, an Companys Registered Office address or by email to info@balfourbeatty.
independent organisation whose services are free to you.
Once your name and address have been added to its records, it will advise the companies Balfour Beatty plc and other bodies that support the service that you no longer wish to receive Registered Office: 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ unsolicited mail.
If you would like more details, please write to: Registered in England Number 395826 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Balfour Beatty plc Print or online?
130 Wilton Road London SW1V1LQ its quick and easy online... Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7216 6950 Strong its more environmentally friendly online... www.
com its more cost-effective online.
Why not view our online annual report at: Performance www.
com bby investors reports Sustainable Future Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Balfour Beatty plc Print or online?
com bby investors reports Sustainable Future Our accounts Our business Our governance Our summary financial statement 61 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Contents Shareholder information Registrars and transfer office Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT Our business 201m or visit the Mailing Preference Service website at www.
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to receive Introduction 01 136m corporate documents by email should, in the first instance, be directed to the Our performance 02 117m Gifting shares to your family or to charity Companys Registrars and clearly state the shareholders registered address Group overview 04 and, if available, the full shareholder reference number.
Please write to: To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Chairmans statement 06 Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you Chief Executives review 08 Telephone 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus 02 may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift 05 06 07 network extras and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Monday Delivering excellent performance and building a sustainable future... 15 registered charity no.
Alternatively you can email them at: Operating review: Any shares that you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when Our performance ssd@capitaregistrars.
possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other UK Building, Building Management and Services 28 Our three-year record.
They can help you to: charities.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 11m has been given to almost Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services 31 check your shareholding: 1,500 charities.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the Rail Engineering and Services 35 register a change of address or name: Registrars: further information about the scheme is available from the ShareGift obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax voucher: Internet site www.
Investments 39 record the death of a shareholder: Corporate responsibility 44 amalgamate multiple accounts: Share dealing services resolve any other question about your shareholding.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing service for UK resident shareholders.
Our governance If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society The Company has also established an execution-only postal share dealing account, you should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
Board of Directors 48 service, through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, for private investors who wish to Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing Summary Directors report 50 buy or sell Balfour Beatty plcs shares.
Information about Balfour Beattys Dividend Reinvestment Plan 04 Summary remuneration report 52 DRIP can also be obtained from the Registrars.
The Balfour Beatty Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, Telephone: 020 7155 5155 Group overview Shareholder information on the internet and The Groups principal areas of Alternatively, a low-cost, execution-only postal share dealing service for the electronic communications activity and expertise.
purchase and sale of Balfour Beatty plc shares is available from Pershing The Balfour Beatty website at www.
com offers shareholders Securities Ltd.
The service is restricted to UK residents, and transactions are and prospective investors a wealth of information about the Company, limited to u15,000 approximately 10,000 in value.
For details, please contact: its people and businesses and its policies on corporate governance and Pershing Securities Ltd, Broker Services Team, The Royal Liver Building, Pier corporate responsibility.
06 Capita IRG Trustees Limited, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Pershing Securities In conjunction with Capita Registrars, you can access and manage your Ltd are each authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
By creating a Share Portal Chairmans message Pershing Securities Ltd is also a member of LIFFE and the London Stock Exchange.
account, you are able to access the full range of online services, including Retiring Chairman Sir David John the ability to: Share price reviews the year.
view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation: The Balfour Beatty share price can be found at the Balfour Beatty website view movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history: at www.
bank account: It is also available on Ceefax and Teletext and a number of personal finance change your registered address: websites on the Internet.
Historic share prices are available from the library sign-up to receive e-communications or access the online proxy voting facility: 08 at Hoare Govett.
Our summary financial statement The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: The Share Portal is easy to use.
You can take control of your shareholding and Summary Group income statement 55 Strategic review Ordinary shares: 0096162 keep your details up to date.
Summary Group statement of recognised income and expense 55 Ian Tyler explains Balfour Beattys Preference shares: 0097820 Alternatively, you can email: shareportal@capita.
strategy and how it is being Summary Group balance sheet 56 Balfour Beatty actively supports Climate Care, a not-for-profit organisation The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: implemented.
Summary Group cash flow statement 57 that funds global sustainable energy and forest restoration projects that reduce Ordinary shares: BBY greenhouse gases.
Notes to the summary financial statement 58 Preference shares: BBYB As well as cutting greenhouse gasses, Climate Cares projects also help to Independent auditors statement to the members of Balfour Beatty plc 60 improve peoples standard of living and to protect wildlife habitats.
For more Capital gains tax Shareholder information 61 information on Climate Care, visit www.
In support of the Climate Care programme, Balfour Beatty will donate For capital gains tax purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour 1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers to receive shareholder Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 307.3p per share.
adjusted for the 1-for-5 rights issue in June 1992 and the 2-for-11 rights issue 28 in September 1996.
Unsolicited mail Operating review Enquiries Balfour Beatty is obliged by law to make its share register available on request The story behind the 2007 numbers to other organisations who may then use it as a mailing list.
This may result Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position and the Groups approach to in you receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited should be made in writing to the Corporate Communications Department at the corporate responsibility.
mail, you may do so by writing to the Mailing Preference Service, an Companys Registered Office address or by email to info@balfourbeatty.
If you would like more details, please write to: Registered in England Number 395826 Our business 01 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Introduction Balfour Beatty is a world-class engineering, construction, services and investment business well-positioned in infrastructure markets which offer significant long-term growth.
We work in partnership with sophisticated customers who value the highest levels of quality, safety and technical expertise.
Our skills are applied in appropriate combinations to meet individual customer need.
Our strategy, which is set out in the following pages, is designed to continue to deliver strong, reliable, responsible growth in shareholder value over the long term.
02 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Our performance reflects the increasing success of our business strategy Strong growth in profits and earnings Strong operating cash performance Good progress in strategic acquisition and investment programme Record order book and future workflows Dividend increase of 26% Before exceptional items and amortisation, and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations in adjusted earnings per share.
Washington DC Air Force Memorial Our business 03 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Revenue including joint ventures and associates 7,488 5,506 7, 488m 4,590 36% 05 06 07 Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation 201 136 201m 117 48% 05 06 07 Adjusted earnings per share before exceptional items and amortisation and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations 35.0 27.3 24.1 35.0p 28% 05 06 07 Order book 11.4 9.1 7.6 11.4bn 25% 05 06 07 Total shareholder return value at year-end of 100 investment made five years previously, as measured by share price growth and reinvested dividends 360 331 287 360 25% 05 06 07 Since 2000 Balfour Beattys reported pre-tax profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation, and adjusted earnings per share have grown by compound annual rates of 13% and 19% respectively.
04 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Group overview What we do Building, Building Management and Services Rail Engineering and Services Balfour Beatty is an international specialist in the Balfour Beatty is an international leader in the design, construction, equipping, maintenance and design, construction, equipping, maintenance, management of buildings and selected aspects of management and renewal of rail assets their internal environment.
Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services Investments Balfour Beatty is a leading international provider Balfour Beatty promotes, develops and invests in of civil and other specialist engineering, design privately funded infrastructure assets in selected and management services, principally in transport, sectors, on an international basis.
Forth Rail Bridge Our business 05 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Where we work revenue by destination 5,155m 1,480m 342m 247m UK 69% US 20% Asia Pacific 5% Middle East, Near East 3% 263m 1m Continental Europe 3% Central and South America Some of the asset owners for whom we work US Army Corps of Engineers 06 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chairmans statement We are absolutely committed to the continuing delivery of the reliable, responsible growth that our shareholders have enjoyed over recent years.
Percentage 2007 2006 increase Revenue including joint ventures and associates 7,488m 5,506m 36% Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation 201m 136m 48% after exceptional items and amortisation 157m 109m 44% Earnings per share adjusted 35.0p 27.3p 28% basic 35.1p 21.2p 66% Dividends per share 11.5p 9.1p 26% Order book 11.4bn 9.1bn 25% Financing net cash before PPP subsidiaries non-recourse 374m 305m net borrowings of PPP subsidiaries non-recourse 61m 21m Before exceptional items and amortisation, and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations.
Our business 07 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 The Group in 2007 There were a number of exceptional items, resulting in a net exceptional profit of 7 million 2006: 25 million charge.
2007 was a very good year for the Group, both in terms of financial Operating cash flow was, once again, strong and in line with profits.
performance and progress made in pursuing our medium and long-term Year-end net cash stood at 374 million 2006: 305 million, despite net strategic objectives.
acquisition expenditure of 106 million and before taking account of the We continued to enhance the earnings capacity of the Group.
consolidation of 61 million of non-recourse net debt held in PPP subsidiaries The acquisition of Centex Construction now Balfour Beatty Construction US 2006: 21 million.
was a very important step in creating a major domestic business in the United The year-end order book increased by 25% to 11.4 billion 2006: States.
This process has continued with the agreement to acquire GMH 9.1 billion, with almost 2 billion of further work at preferred bidder stage.
Military Housing, announced in February 2008.
The acquisitions of Exeter Revenue from continuing operations, including the Groups share of joint International Airport, Cowlin and Covion, and a number of smaller acquisitions ventures and associates, at 7,488 million 2006: 5,506 million was up by 36%.
in rail technology and upstream professional services further strengthened our business core.
Safety and environment We have also continued the process of improving the management of our non-financial responsibilities the safety of our people, our interaction with The Groups Accident Frequency Rate reduced by a further 16% in 2007, the physical environment, and our wider role in the communities in which we continuing the positive trend of recent years, despite very significant increases serve.
We promote innovation in the businesses in a number of ways, not least in the numbers of people employed by the Group and for whom we are through the Chairmans Innovation Prize for Graduates, over 150 of whom were responsible on project sites.
We also continued to make good progress in recruited during the year.
The clear strategy which the Board developed and agreed in 2005, which is described in detail by Ian Tyler on pages 8 to 14, has accelerated our growth The Board and brought a number of high-quality businesses and new investments into Jim Cohen retired from the Board on 18 February 2007.
responsibility for the development of both our UK PPP business and our Our strong cash position has been maintained despite very significant international rail operations and left with the Boards sincere gratitude and cash expenditure on acquisitions and we are very well placed to continue best wishes.
to add to the business mix.
On 19 February 2008, it was announced that Anthony Rabin will become Our reputation for reliability, expertise and delivery has never Deputy Chief Executive with effect from 31 March 2008, with responsibility been stronger.
for the management and development of our international infrastructure Since 2003, Balfour Beatty has doubled its revenues and earnings.
investment business, which is of increasing strategic importance to the Group.
It has been gratifying to see our share price rise from its level of below 2.00 Duncan Magrath will become Finance Director and join the Board, having been at that time.
Deputy Finance Director since he joined the Group in 2006.
We owe our success over this period to the talents, dedication and hard As you know, I will be retiring from the Board and from the Group work of Balfour Beatty people at all levels and locations of the organisation.
I am sure shareholders will join me in expressing their thanks to them all for It has been a great privilege to lead Balfour Beatty during a period their efforts.
Our continuing ability to attract, retain and offer exciting of exceptional progress for the Group.
I have enjoyed working with a most opportunity to people of the highest calibre is central to our future ambitions.
talented and dedicated group of people during that time immensely.
Steve Marshall, who succeeds me after the AGM, will bring Results comprehensive public company experience and a thorough familiarity with the In 2007, our pre-tax profits from continuing operations before exceptional construction and support services sectors to the task.
He will lead a Board with items and amortisation of intangible assets for the 12 months to 31 December exceptional executive management and non-executives of great experience and 2007 were up 48% at 201 million 2006: 136 million.
Adjusted earnings per a highly independent outlook.
I leave the company in excellent hands.
ordinary share before exceptional items and amortisation, and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations were up 28% at 35.0p Outlook 2006: 27.3p.
Basic earnings per ordinary share stood at 35.1p 2006: 21.2p.
Balfour Beatty is a world-class business, well positioned in infrastructure The Board recommends a final dividend of 6.9p per ordinary share, making markets which offer significant long-term growth.
a total dividend for the year of 11.5p 2006: 9.1p, an increase of 26%.
We have record order books and an exceptionally strong pipeline Operating profits from continuing operations in the building sector increased of high-quality new work approaching contract.
Our acquisitions will add by 74%, in the engineering sector by 83% and in the rail sector by 16%.
Reported substantially to our earning power.
results in the investments sector were down on 2006 as our investment in We are absolutely committed to the continuing delivery of the reliable, resources in markets outside the UK and our bidding activity increased significantly.
responsible growth that our shareholders have enjoyed over recent years.
We are clear about our priorities for the further development of the business and have the proven management capability to deliver.
I am confident that we will continue to make further good progress in 2008 and beyond.
Sir David John KCMG Chairman 08 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives review Balfour Beatty had a very good year in 2007.
Achieving a 48% improvement in pre-tax profits from continuing operations and a 28% increase in adjusted earnings clearly demonstrates the all-round health of the business and the strength of our many long-term, blue-chip customer relationships.
Our results reflect great credit on people at all levels and locations across the Group.
Sir David John is to step down as Balfour Beatty Chairman at this The Chairman years AGM after five years in the post.
In that period, our revenues and earnings have doubled.
Our share price at the time he became Chairman was 187p.
He is owed a great debt of thanks by the Company for his untiring work as Chairman and I would like to offer my own personal thanks for his guidance and advice since I became Chief Executive at the beginning of 2005.
Our business 09 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 A year of progress and achievement Whatever the numbers may say about us, events and achievements around the business are just as telling.
Construction of the immensely complex 550m Birmingham Hospital PPP project continued on budget and ahead of schedule.
We are now engaged with 10 NHS Trusts in major projects critical to the task of improving public healthcare in the UK.
British Energy chose Balfour Beatty for the care of all of its nuclear power facilities in an integrated package for the next seven years.
The Hong Kong Government entrusted us with the construction of its major new government complex: the US Navy with building over 5,000 new housing units at 11 bases in the south-east US: the US Department of Defense with building a major new technical centre: and National Grid with upgrading and developing the electricity transmission network across the whole eastern half of England.
We handed over the hugely complex rail station and systems work at Heathrow Terminal 5 to BAA on time: made substantial progress on the worlds biggest shopping mall in Dubai: and steered the massive Kings Cross Underground Station redevelopment project through another series of important cost and time deadlines.
We used our strong cash position to grow further the earning power of the business.
We added a leading presence in the US building market, strengthened our regional building business in the UK, broadened the range of support services we offer and extended the range of technology we have available to service the rail market.
Of course, the year was not without its disappointments and the entry into administration of Metronet, in which we had a 20% interest, was first amongst them.
We have worked closely with London Underground and the PPP Administrator to ensure that the daily operations of the Tube have been unaffected.
We remain committed to the creation of a world-class underground system for London and will continue to provide a range of services under the new arrangements which have been put in place.
Ian Tyler Chief Executive 10 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives review Our strategy Our strategy is to grow both Our goal at Balfour Beatty is to deliver consistent, long-term value growth to our shareholders.
We will do this by striving to become the leading provider organically and by acquisition of high-quality, customer critical infrastructure in each of our chosen markets.
in disciplines within or By becoming the partner of choice to sophisticated owners in our chosen disciplines adjacent to our established and geographies, we believe we will achieve secure, industry best margins in our core skills in our principal contracting activities and substantial, sustainable equity returns from our long-term geographic markets.
Our core skills are anchored in our engineering expertise.
We enjoy an enormous depth of experience and capability in the conception, creation and care of infrastructure assets.
The markets which we serve, with few exceptions, are national or sub-national.
We therefore seek market leadership, which affords optimum access to customers, suppliers and talent, in a small number of specific geographic territories.
Our strategy is to grow both organically and by acquisition in disciplines within or adjacent to our established core skills in our principal geographic markets.
In the short term this will be true, particularly in the UK and the US.
We will, in due course, also develop major regional businesses from strong existing bases in South-East Asia, the Gulf Region and Western Europe.
Our chosen markets are almost all experiencing steady growth, with several advancing more quickly.
Within these markets, we have long-term relationships with strong, sophisticated, successful customers who are committed to major long-term infrastructure investments.
Our very substantial order book and the investment plans of our long-term customer base give us excellent visibility of our workload for the next two to three years and a high level of confidence in our ability to continue to grow strongly over this period.
Our business, as currently constituted, also has excellent longer-term prospects arising from, for example, the London Olympics, the planned nuclear programme, Crossrail and continuing investment in education and healthcare in the UK and heavy public, particularly military, spending in the US.
Two years ago, we identified four principal areas in which to invest, which would further underpin and promote growth in the medium and longer term.
Since that time, we have made excellent progress in the four areas, which are: extending our UK regional coverage in building and civil engineering: developing a major capability in professional and technical services: taking our private finance skills beyond the UK PPP market: and establishing strong, multi-disciplinary domestic businesses outside the UK, particularly in the US.
Our business 11 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 UK infrastructure We make amongst our best Traditionally, our coverage has been strongest in Scotland and parts of the north of England with a lesser presence in the Midlands, the south and in Wales.
In 2003, and most reliable margins we took a major step forward with the acquisition of Mansell, a quality building where we lead the market in construction and refurbishment business, widely spread across the UKs regions, infrastructure provision in the which provided a strong presence, with high-quality customers in both the public UKs regions.
These markets and private sectors.
are delivering and promise At the time of acquisition in December 2003, Mansell had annual revenues of a further vigorous demand little over 500m.
Under Balfour Beatty management, Mansell will have grown its growth as investment in new revenues to approximately 850m in 2007 and more than doubled its operating profits.
In mid 2006, we acquired Birse, a civil engineering company, particularly strong buildings, affordable housing, in the north of England and the Midlands, with skills in the coastal, rail and process roads, bridges and other sectors additional to those already in the Balfour Beatty Group.
The business was transport facilities continues quickly and successfully integrated into Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering, while to increase.
retaining its own market identity, and has accelerated the Groups continuing growth in regional engineering markets.
Strategic developments In August 2007, we continued the expansion of our regional businesses with Cowlin acquired for 53m the acquisition of Cowlin, a high-quality building and refurbishment contractor based in Bristol, which provides a strong, established presence in the south and south-west Birse, acquired in 2006, of England and in Wales.
The business has regional offices in Bristol, Cardiff and integrated successfully Plymouth and employs approximately 500 people.
Mansells strong growth continues Cowlin, which has become part of Balfour Beatty Construction, is particularly Other regional targets identified strong in the healthcare, education, property and leisure markets.
It is a wellrespected brand with a quality reputation, a large secured order book and an experienced management team.
Through the acquisition, Balfour Beatty has become a top-tier player in Wales, and the south and south-west of England.
01 01 Capricorn Quay development, Bristol Cowlin 12 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives review Professional and technical services Balfour Beatty Management continues to be one of the UKs fastest growing Balfour Beatty Management, consultancies.
Formed in 2003, it now has over 500 professional staff.
In 2007 it grew our UK-based professional and organically and, in order to broaden the scope and coverage of its operations, through technical services business, acquisition.
Two commercial services companies were acquired in the year, one has grown substantially in specialising in commercial developments, principally in London, and the other serving 2007.
This puts us in an the industrial sector from a base in the north-east of England.
increasingly powerful position Balfour Beatty Management is now an integral part of the Groups major UK customer relationships and of its complex project bids.
It leads and co-ordinates a to satisfy our long-term variety of the Groups major activities including the 550m overhead electricity relationship customers alliance for the east of England for National Grid: the 350m integrated facilities demand for a higher-level, management and maintenance programme for British Energy: and the Groups role as integrated presence at the top complex build integrator for BAAs programme to develop its major airports.
It was of their supply chain and to responsible for all aspects of the final commissioning of Balfour Beattys work at engage in design, project Heathrow Terminal 5 and is the major force for the development and operation of planning and programme Exeter International Airport.
It has led the bidding process for the Groups submissions for the 2012 London Olympics Aquatic Centre and the M25 PPP management in the broader concession project.
It has also developed a substantial business base in its own right.
For the Department of Transport, it has managed the timely delivery of the first phase of the Strategic developments new Kings Cross Underground Station and is now co-ordinating the second phase Acquisition of two UK commercial due to be delivered by the end of 2009.
It is also managing the Victoria Line upgrade.
consultancies It is working on major commercial developments in London and Glasgow, including Key role in successful Group bids for the transformation of Chelsea Barracks for private residential use.
The company is British Energy, BAA and National Grid now targeting the UK industrial and energy sectors.
Balfour Beattys professional and technical services expertise in the US is Further success in independent provided by Heery International.
Active in the national building market, Heery too market penetration is growing through a mixture of organic development and acquisition.
Development of key energy sector expertise 02 03 02 Miami International Airport Heery International 03 Kings Cross underground station Balfour Beatty Management Our business 13 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Private finance Currently, the UK PPP market shows no sign of slowing and Balfour Beatty Capital is In the period since the UK bidding for a further six new projects, potentially to add to the 27 UK PPP concessions Government first turned to which have already been secured.
In education, the Building Schools for the Future private finance to add BSF programme has provided a substantial new market.
In healthcare, investment momentum to its public service of the peace dividend in Northern Ireland is creating major opportunities and while agenda, Balfour Beatty has the mega-hospital market may now be over, there remains a range of smaller, but still become a leader in the field.
substantial, projects in the pipeline.
In transportation major arterial road widening projects will provide the next The expertise which has been major investment programme, while PPP remains an option for realising the developed in the Group, as a objectives of the Governments major expenditure programme in the affordable result, represents an ideal base housing sector.
from which to extend our reach Balfour Beatty became an investor in non-PPP infrastructure in the early 1990s into other infrastructure when it took a 25.5% share of Barking Power, an interest which it still retains.
investment markets both in the In early 2007 it completed the acquisition of Exeter International Airport and has UK and internationally.
since explored a number of other opportunities in the airport and utility sectors.
The extension of our investment business into international markets is being undertaken through two routes.
Expert teams have been established in the US, Strategic developments Germany and South-East Asia to identify, develop, bid and execute projects in those Acquisition of Exeter territories.
In November 2007, we achieved our first success when we were named as International Airport preferred bidder for the 90m Institute of Technical Education in Singapore ITE.
Agreement to acquire GMH In February 2008, we announced an agreement to acquire GMH Military Housing Military Housing in the US in the US.
GMH is a leader in its market, with a portfolio of 15 concessions covering Preferred bidder status achieved over 30,000 units of family status accommodation on 42 military bases across the on ITE Singapore US.
The acquisition, which is expected to be completed in the second quarter of this year, will, in addition to enhancing Group earnings, add an experienced and successful management team to the task of developing our presence in the growing US PPP market.
04 04 Institute of Technical Education, Singapore Gammon Capital 14 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives review International markets When we entered 2007, our US business presence comprised separate businesses in O To u s r u ss trta at in e g gyr o is w tto h g in ro e w a rb no in th gs professional and technical services in the national building sector, in civil engineering o an rg da s nh ic aa re llh y o aln dd e rb vya a lu ce q u in is tih tie on work principally in Texas and California, and in multi-disciplinary rail contracting.
ilo nn d g is tc eirp m lin, B es a lw foiu th r iB ne o art ty During 2007 and the early part of 2008, we made two important moves to build a m d u ja st c e en st ta tb ol io su hr s e us bts atb aln is th ia e ld on this base.
In March 2007, we completed the acquisition of Balfour Beatty c co on re tr s ak citliln sg i n a n od u ri n pv rie nsc tim pa elnt Construction US formerly Centex Construction.
The company is a top-tier building g bu es oig nre as p sh eis c o m ua ts rk id ee ts t. he UK.
construction and construction management business, well placed in a number of growth markets, with a proven and committed management team, and processes Our primary objective is to and culture which are highly compatible with those of Balfour Beatty.
create, in the US, a multiBalfour Beatty Construction US, with annual revenues of over $2bn, undertakes disciplinary business with the construction management and delivery of institutional and commercial buildings similar characteristics to our in the education, healthcare, correctional, government, transportation, leisure and successful UK model adapted office sectors.
Amongst its major customers are Federal Government, Disney to local characteristics, with the Corporation, Boston Properties, Marriott and Bank of America.
capacity to integrate financing, In the period since its acquisition, Balfour Beatty Construction US has performed ahead of our expectations and represents a first-class asset from which to grow both professional and technical in its own markets but also through geographic expansion and, in combination with services, project delivery and our other US businesses, in new markets.
In February 2008, we reached agreement to acquire, subject to regulatory and other consents, GMH Military Housing, which develops, renovates, finances, Strategic developments operates and manages military housing projects on lines similar to the UK PPP model.
Acquisition of Centex Construction Balfour Beatty Construction US acts as its construction partner.
completed in March 2007 In time we anticipate that our US business will be comparable, in size, to our UK business.
Acquisition of GMH Military Housing Our ability to continue and even accelerate the on-going development of our agreed in February 2008 business is not limited by opportunity, but by the resources needed to assess, invest and acquire with the same qualities of successful discrimination and integration as has so far been achieved.
We are a naturally attractive home for quality business in our areas of core competence and expect to develop the business further in 2008.
05 National Museum of the Marine Corps Balfour Beatty Construction US 05 Ian Tyler Chief Executive Our business 15 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering excellent performance and building a sustainable future... London Heathrow, Terminal 5 16 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering the strategy Balanced business model Through Balance Our investment and contracting businesses complement each other.
Our business 17 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 The Group benefits from two distinct choice to work with our investment Birmingham Hospital generic business streams which are business as its concession partner.
With a current An excellent example of this balance portfolio of 27 PPP infrastructure projects, in action is provided by the 550m and the anticipated acquisition of GMH Birmingham Hospital project.
Balfour Military Housing, our investment business Beatty Capital has brought extensive provides a consistent and growing equity hospital planning, operation and return and generates long-term, reliable management and a 23m equity cash ows.
It also provides substantial investment to the task of creating a workows for our contracting businesses.
new 1,213 bed acute hospital and a Over the last five years it has generated 137 bed specialist psychiatric hospital substantial contracting orders to our and teaching facility.
The hospital is construction and service businesses.
being built to the very latest healthcare To return the compliment, our market standards and will use the latest leading capability in design, planning, technical equipment.
programme management, construction The construction and long-term service services and whole life asset management provision to the hospital is all being carried is frequently a key factor in our customers out by Balfour Beatty Group companies.
18 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering the strategy Strong long-term partnerships Through Partnership Our customers see us as an indispensable partner of choice.
Our business 19 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Major infrastructure owners in both the In the US, Balfour Beattys work in US Military public and private sectors increasingly creating a new generation of married believe that best value is to be found in status accommodation at a wide range of close, long-term relationships.
Balfour locations makes the Group a major longBeattys leadership in a wide range of term partner to the US military.
contracting disciplines, together with its The Military Privatization Housing high level programme management skills Initiative was introduced in 1996 to and whole-life asset management create new housing and eradicate the capabilities, constitute an increasingly backlog of repairs and rehabilitation at attractive package to a wide range of many US bases.
For example, Upon completion of the agreed National Grid, United Utilities, British transaction for Balfour Beatty to acquire Energy, BAA and the Highways Agency GMH Military Housing, Balfour Beatty will in the UK, and the Department of Defense, also become responsible for owning and Bank of America and Disney Corporation managing concessions across the US over in the US, use Balfour Beatty as, a 50-year period.
effectively, an extension of their own organisations.
20 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering the strategy An innovative approach Through Innovation The future depends on new ideas being driven through the business.
Our business 21 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering complex infrastructure to the Technical Education, College West.
Educational Systems highest standards in the most costWe offered an education-led design effective manner frequently involves doing developed in consultation with local and things in new and different ways.
This has Each customer has unique needs.
created a total learning environment Balfour Beatty applies techniques and laboratories, classrooms and shared lecture ideas appropriate to each of its customers facilities able to accommodate the most objectives, constantly searching for new up-to-date teaching and learning techniques.
and better solutions and sharing best In the UK, Balfour Beatty is creating practice across customers and its own seven new learning centres in Knowsley on organisational boundaries.
Merseyside under the UK Building Schools Our work in the education sector, for for the Future initiative.
Once again we are example, is increasingly differentiated by engaged not just in the building and our in-depth knowledge of the latest management of new premises but in the educational techniques and developments.
future development of a clear educational In Singapore, we have recently been vision through researching and evaluating awarded a 90m PPP project to design, progressive learning environments and build and operate the new Institute of teaching models from around the world.
22 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering the strategy The best people and processes Through Excellence We have great people at Balfour Beatty: their ideas create success.
Our business 23 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Critical infrastructure demands the highest initiatives were required to deliver British Energy standards of professionalism.
enhance and maintain their assets, The contract was secured, largely as customers no longer buy on price alone a result of the demonstrable depth of but evaluate technical skill, individual expertise of Balfour Beatty people from and collective experience, know-how, daily maintenance of high-quality services, organisational efficiency and underlying through innovative system controls for systems and processes.
multi-site mobilisation, to the provision of Above all, they look to work with strategic input on the key issues facing talented people with a passion to deliver.
Balfour Beatty was recently appointed to Critically, Balfour Beatty could carry out a full-service integrated facilities provide solutions to almost all the scope management programme for British of required work from within its own Energy over a seven-year period.
resources, using the skills of Balfour This followed almost 200 Balfour Beatty Beatty Management, Haden Building man days on pre-proposal site visits Management and Balfour Kilpatrick.
and workshops, to identify what 24 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering the strategy Comfortable with complexity Through Expertise We have a reputation for the successful delivery of complex projects.
Our business 25 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 One of the Groups greatest competitive and execution of all the rail systems for the Heathrow Terminal 5 strengths and a key to many of our longHeathrow Express and the Piccadilly Line term contractual relationships is our extensions, delivery of the rail terminal proven ability to help our customers tackle complex within Terminal 5A, the track the most complex challenges successfully.
transit system connecting the terminal We have a long-standing reputation for satellites, and a range of ancillary work delivering the most complex projects on including gates, bridges and toilet units.
This ability has been The rail station, equivalent in size to further enhanced by the continuing six football pitches, houses six platforms.
development of our professional and Balfour Beatty managed and tted out the technical services arm and an everstation, including the design of all nishes, increasing facility in combining our multimechanical and electrical systems, disciplinary skills in the right combination glazing, steelwork, lifts, escalators and and balance to achieve customer objectives.
Balfour Beatty has played a key role The project was especially challenging as in creating Heathrow Terminal 5, the it incorporated two separate rail systems agship development for BAA.
The Group one heavy rail and the other a light has been responsible for the integration metropolitan system.
26 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Delivering the strategy Working and acting responsibly Through Responsibility Our aim is to ensure a sustainable future.
Our business 27 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Our customers do not just demand Sport achieves many things for young London Youth Games excellence in operational performance, people.
It promotes personal well-being, technical skills and project management.
breeds confidence and gives a sense of They also want to be sure that their purpose.
It offers opportunities where there partners and suppliers meet or surpass may be few alternatives.
It supports social their own high standards of responsible cohesion and acts against social exclusion.
We set ourselves demanding In order to secure the future of the targets in these areas and welcome the Games, which involve all London boroughs opportunity to differentiate ourselves in and the City, Balfour Beatty has agreed terms of safety, environmental management to sponsor them until 2013.
In addition and wider social responsibility.
to providing core funding for their The Groups clearly defined policies administration and development, a and practices with regard to safety and substantial portion of the 1.7m support the environment continue to drive package is set aside for grant applications performance improvements in both areas, from the individual boroughs to finance and we have also taken a number of specic projects to recruit coaches, create community initiatives aimed at enhancing clubs and increase the participation of the lives of young people, particularly girls, the disabled and those at risk of those at risk or facing disadvantage.
28 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Building, Building Management and Services Strong progress in the UK and a major initiative in the US 01 Highlights Profits up by 74% Order book increased by 69% Acquisition of Centex Construction in the US Acquisition of Cowlin and Covion in the UK Financial summary Companies Revenue Balfour Beatty Construction UK Balfour Beatty Construction US 3.6bn Balfour Kilpatrick 2006: 2.1bn Haden Building Management 01 York College Balfour Beatty Construction UK Haden Young Unexecuted orders 02 Lawrence High School Heery International Heery International Mansell 6.1bn 2006: 3.6bn Specialist areas Profit Design Construction 75m Construction and 2006: 43m programme management Electrical engineering Including 113m share of joint ventures and associates 2006: 115m.
Mechanical engineering Profit from operations before 26m exceptional charges 2006: nil and 6m Building and amortisation of intangible assets facilities management 2006: nil.
02 Refurbishment and fit-out Affordable housing Our business 29 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Major developments in 2007 We made steady progress in the London refurbishment market, including major schemes for the London boroughs of Hammersmith and Fulham, Barnet, Our ambition to become a major player in the US building construction market Ealing and Islington.
Hackney was awarded late in the year as part of the was achieved through the acquisition of Centex Construction, subsequently Decent Homes scheme.
renamed Balfour Beatty Construction US.
This is a high-quality business We were also very successful in private markets.
Good progress operating in those state markets which enjoyed higher than average growth continued on the Holborn Viaduct project for Castlemore, leading to our and with a management culture and strategic objectives highly compatible appointment for their new 70m Temple Quay project in Bristol.
Elsewhere in with Balfour Beatty.
London, we won major new projects in St Martins Lane, Tudor Street, Gresse In the UK, our programme to extend our leading presence in regional Street and Bartholomew Lane.
Balfour Beatty Construction successfully UK building construction markets continued with the acquisition of Cowlin, completed Atlantic Quay in Glasgow for Wilson Bowden.
which has a strong position in the south and south-west of England and in Major works for BAA at the new Terminal 5 at Heathrow were completed Wales.
We also enhanced our offer to the outsourced services market with on time and on budget and we have begun work, as complex build integrator, the acquisition of Covion, a fast-growing integrated services business.
on the mideld pier project, also at Heathrow, which has the potential to be worth some 350m in total.
Mansell has also been selected for BAAs new Our markets commodity building framework.
Mansell had a very good year under its major framework contracts, UK markets remain buoyant, with public spending on schools, hospitals, including work for the US Air Force at Liberty Village, Lakenheath and for Unite defence and social housing continuing to grow and private sector customers and BT.
Good progress was made on the new swimming pool in Sunderland.
generally increasing their expenditure on their key building infrastructure.
In the early part of 2008, the Group secured the contract for the London Olympic In the US, market conditions in our key construction markets in Florida, Texas, Aquatic Centre.
the Carolinas and Washington DC were strong and our professional and technical services business continued to benefit from both public and private UK building services spending on new infrastructure, particularly in the south, south-east and west.
It was another good year for Haden Young and Balfour Kilpatrick in UK building services, with aggregate profits improving once again.
Haden Our 2007 performance Youngs pre-eminent position in healthcare was augmented through a new generation of complex major hospital mechanical and electrical systems work profits for the year grew very signicantly.
Balfour Beatty Construction at Pontefract and Pinderelds, Salford and Tameside to add to ongoing work in US contributed a first nine months profit at better than anticipated levels, Birmingham, Glasgow and at UCLH.
The company further augmented its while very good progress was made across the board in building construction, leadership in this eld, through the further development of its specialist off-site building services and facilities management in the UK and in professional manufacturing units in Salford, West Bromwich and Weston-super-Mare.
Balfour Kilpatricks position in the education market was also further strengthened, with ongoing projects in Birmingham, Bassetlaw and North Review of operations Lanarkshire augmented by work under the new Knowsley BSF project.
It also secured work at Sunderland Academy.
Haden Youngs work in the sector UK building construction included projects for Highland Schools, Queen Margaret University in Edinburgh In UK building construction, both Balfour Beatty Construction and and a contract award for Mid-Kent College.
Mansell performed very well and increased their aggregate profits by over Elsewhere, we successfully completed Phase 1 of Liverpool Arena and 30%.
Cowlin, which was acquired in August to create critical mass in Conference Centre as part of Liverpools year as European Capital of Culture.
the south and south-west of England and in Wales, also contributed in line with expectations.
Progress on public healthcare projects was very good, with on or ahead of schedule delivery on the hospital project programmes in Birmingham, Pontefract and Pinderelds, Glasgow, Brentwood and UCLH, and successful 03 mobilisation at Salford and Tameside.
We have also been successful in winning projects in Cromer, Teddington, Basildon and Chester under the Procure 21 programme.
It was also a successful year in the education sector, with construction work on the projects in Bassetlaw, Birmingham and North Lanarkshire on or ahead of schedule, a good start for the new BSF project in Knowsley and new work secured for South Lanarkshire College, Langside College and student accommodation for the University of Kent amongst others.
The 47m York College project was completed and handed over during the year.
Work under the BSF framework in Manchester continued satisfactorily and a similar contract was won in Liverpool.
Mansell continued to enjoy considerable success in the growing affordable housing market.
Its participation in the Sandwell PPP project progressed well, and work for Catalyst, Riverside, and Metropolitan Housing, amongst others, continued satisfactorily.
During the year, new customers included Bromford Housing Association.
In the defence sector, work under regional prime contracts progressed well.
The 40m project to build a new facility at Menwith Hill was awarded late in the year.
03 Integrated facilities management Covion 30 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Building, Building Management and Services continued Balfour Kilpatricks work on the electrical systems for the rail works at US professional and technical services Heathrow Terminal 5 was completed on time and budget and the company profits in Heery International continued their steady growth, with organic was awarded the power contract for the Victoria Line upgrade in London.
expansion augmented by a full-year contribution from Charter Builders in Texas, Work at Kings Cross Underground Station continues to be satisfactory, as is acquired during 2006, and a first contribution from Sequeira and Gavarrete, the case for the 60m Whitelee Wind Farm project.
the Miami-based project management company.
Heery continued to win highIn private sector markets, both companies continued to perform well, quality, publicly funded work, remaining a market leader in the K12 education, with Balfour Kilpatrick completing a refurbishment project for John Lewis in healthcare and correction markets, with its order backlog in schools at Oxford Street and winning new work for Selfridges in London, the St Davids record levels.
Centre in Cardiff and the Paradise Street project in Liverpool.
Haden Youngs In May, Heery secured a $240m contract for the construction management work in the private sector is largely concentrated in London, with prospects and construction of Berlin Prison in New Hampshire.
This is indicative of a good for major Olympic projects and new ofces for Transport for London.
growing penetration of the design and build market, to augment Heerys established positions in architecture, engineering, design and programme UK facilities management and project management.
Its work on Miami International Airport progressed 2007 was a year of strong revenue and profit growth for Haden Building well as did major projects for the Food and Drugs Agency in Washington DC, Management, with its future prospects further enhanced by the acquisition of three Veterans Hospitals in the south of the US and at San Jose, and the Covion, the integrated services provider, in October.
Mobilisation programmes American football stadium, the Cotton Bowl, in Dallas, Texas.
for the major Metropolitan Police and Department for Work and Pensions Heery has made several successful acquisitions in the period 2004 contracts were highly successful, a number of new PPP contracts were added to 2007 and continues to look at the potential for adding new operations to the portfolio and at the end of the year a major contract was secured for through this route.
British Energy in conjunction with other Balfour Beatty companies.
Performance under the major contract for the Royal Mail, in which we Outlook have a 49% interest, improved following a significant amount of management restructuring in response to the challenges of 2006.
Performance under the Despite some threat of a slowing in the rate of UK spending growth, and contract for BT was again good and in the early part of 2008 a major extension concerns about recession and the impact of the sub-prime market, principally to this contract was secured.
Performance under the companys portfolio of in the US, Balfour Beattys high-quality, long-term order books, strong blue-chip long-term PPP healthcare and education contracts continued to be good.
customer relationships and current pipeline give us confidence in further During the year, new contracts for PPP hospitals in Pontefract, Pinderelds, substantial progress in the sector in 2008.
Salford and Tameside and learning centres in Knowsley were secured.
In the private sector, new business was won for Nelson Bakewell, the property managers, and, most signicantly, British Energy.
Under a seven-year, 350m contract, Haden will work alongside Balfour Kilpatrick and Balfour 04 Great Ormond Street Hospital Mansell Beatty Management to provide British Energy with facilities management 05 John Lewis refurbishment, London Balfour Kilpatrick and maintenance services for its portfolio of 11 nuclear power stations and two ofce complexes across England and Scotland.
04 In October, the acquisition of Covion broadened and deepened the companys range of expertise in technology, property and people-related services and increased its penetration of the private sector facilities management market.
US building construction Balfour Beatty Construction US, acquired as Centex Construction at the end of March 2007, has given Balfour Beatty a strong position in the US building construction market.
Its performance during the remainder of 2007 was very strong and has exceeded our expectations at the time of acquisition.
In a full year, it will have sales of over $2.2bn, and it has approaching 250 active projects and over 1,600 employees.
Some 89% of its budgeted revenues for 2008 and 72% of its budgeted revenues for 2009 had been secured by the end of 2007.
Almost all of its work is secured on the basis of technical capability and track record, with price being determined only after its selection as preferred contractor.
05 In 2007, its regional businesses, which are based in Texas, Florida, North Carolina and Washington DC, and its nationwide military housing business all performed well.
Notable amongst many major projects wins during the year were: the $1.2bn project, under the US Department of Defenses Base Realignment and Closure programme, to build a major new technical centre at Fort Belvoir in Virginia: and the $500m Navy South-East military housing project, under which over 5,000 new married status housing units will be constructed at 11 bases in five different states.
Balfour Beatty Construction US entered 2008 with a record order book.
The companys state markets, which show signicantly higher predicted population growth than US averages, are likely to prove relatively resilient should any overall economic downturn develop.
Our business 31 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services Good progress in the UK, Dubai, Hong Kong and the US 01 Highlights Profits up by 83% Sale of our interest in Devonport Management Eastern Overhead Alliance Contract worth 550m US business returns to profit Financial summary Companies Revenue Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering 2.7bn Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc 2006: 2.3bn Balfour Beatty 01 UK transmission system upgrade Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions Infrastructure Services Unexecuted orders 02 M1 widening Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering Balfour Beatty Management Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions 4.4bn Balfour Beatty Sakti 49% 2006: 4.55bn Dutco Balfour Beatty 49% Profit BK Gulf 49% 02 Gammon 50% 86m 2006: 47m Specialist areas Professional and technical services From continuing operations, including 556m share of joint ventures and associates Design 2006: 594m.
Construction Profit from continuing operations before 9m exceptional charges 2006: 21m and 3m Project management amortisation of intangible assets 2006: 1m.
Foundations, strengthening, testing Civil engineering Electrical engineering Transmission lines Road management and maintenance Utility upgrade and maintenance 32 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services continued Major developments in 2007 Our 2007 performance In June, we completed the sale of our 24.5% interest in Devonport profits for the year improved substantially, with particularly strong progress in Management Limited DML to Babcock International.
Long-term involvement the UK from the regional civil engineering business and the utility businesses in DML was not core to our strategy and the sale, part of a wider rationalisation and signicantly improved performance in South-East Asia, Dubai and the in the ownership of the defence supply industry, represented excellent value United States.
Towards the end of the year, Balfour Beatty Utilities and Balfour Beatty Review of operations Power Networks were merged to form Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions.
Subsequent reorganisation has created a structure designed to optimise the Professional and technical services service levels which the business offers to its UK utility customers.
Balfour Beatty Management continued to make good progress in 2007 with another strong performance and significant expansion.
By the end of the year Our markets the company employed over 500 professional and technical staff and had increased its order book by 50%.
The market for professional and technical In UK civil and ground engineering, regional markets are showing the first services continued to be buoyant, in particular in the area of sophisticated, signs of real growth for some time, particularly in Scotland and the south-east.
Prospects for the major project business include major opportunities on Two small acquisitions were made during the year a commercial Crossrail, M25 widening and the Olympics.
The UK utilities market, conditioned development specialist based in London and a 130-strong commercial services 1 as it is by the five-year regulatory cycle, is largely xed for the next 2 2 years and business based in the north-east of England.
The market for professional and technical services continues to The company now leads and co-ordinates a range of the Groups major grow in a number of sectors.
long-term contract activities including the overhead line and cabling alliance Outside the UK, the Dubai market continues to grow strongly, as do those and the Greater Manchester Gas Alliance for National Grid, the Groups work as in Macau and Singapore in South-East Asia.
Markets in Hong Kong and the US complex build integrator for BAA and the Groups major facilities management are relatively at, but continue to offer significant opportunity.
It also has substantial open market business in its own right including for Transport for London at Kings Cross Underground Station, for Candy in the residential development of the Chelsea Barracks and at the Pollock retail centre in Glasgow.
At Kings Cross, all programme elements have been delivered on time with the remaining work due for 2009 completion.
Work on the Victoria Line upgrade is progressing well and the company is leading Group bids for the M25 widening and maintenance PPP and for the Groups Olympic work.
03 03 New government HQ, Hong Kong Gammon Construction Our business 33 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 UK infrastructure UK utilities Results in Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering improved signicantly, largely as In the electricity sector, Balfour Beatty Power Networks volumes and a result of organic growth in the regional civil engineering business, augmented profits improved.
This was largely as a result of the first period of work on by a first full years contribution from Birse which was acquired in mid 2006. the 550m Eastern Overhead and Cable Alliance contract for National Grid, Our work on the Forth Rail Bridge has been extended for a further three signed in March 2007, an increasing workload in Scotland and growing years and we have been awarded the contract for the Isle of Man Airport, volumes in Australia.
The Eastern Alliance contract is for an extensive following the successful completion of a similar job in the Shetlands.
programme of work to upgrade and develop the electricity transmission Frameworks for County Councils, for BAA in Scotland and for the Environment network in the eastern half of England.
A new framework contract for roads in the east Increasing pressure on the power infrastructure around the world and midlands was secured during the year, as was the Sadlers Farm highway the relative scarcity of expert resource in new power line construction and project.
The Liverpool Cruise Liner Terminal was completed successfully.
existing system upgrade is offering the company a wide range of international In the major projects sector, good progress was made on the widening bidding opportunities.
project on the M1 between junctions 6a10, on the Northern Ticket Hall contract at Kings Cross Underground Station and on the civil engineering works for the East London line.
Construction work began on the 200m A3 Hindhead project, one of several Early Contractor Involvement schemes won by the Group in recent years.
Birse Rail, which carries out civil engineering works in the rail sector, made a good contribution, with strong performance on Network Rail frameworks in the midlands and the north-west and for local maintenance depots and disabled access work on a wide range of stations.
A major project at Nuneaton Station was fully mobilised during the year.
The complete recovery and restitution following the Grayrigg derailment was completed.
Bidding activity has been intense during the year and 2008 will see the outcomes of major tenders for the M25 PPP project, work on Thameslink and for a number of contracts related to the 2012 Olympics.
Balfour Beatty Ground Engineering, which comprises Stent Foundations and Pennine, had another very satisfactory year with a strong performance in both bored and pre-cast piling.
Pennine, acquired in 2005, secured its first contract in Canada to add to established export business in Dubai.
The company has excellent prospects for a range of 2012 Olympicsrelated work, building on its successful experience for the new Wembley and Emirates stadia in London.
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Services, the road and other infrastructure management and maintenance specialist, performed well in a highly competitive market, albeit with slightly lower profits than 2006s particularly strong results.
Performance within the existing portfolio of Highways Agency, local authority, and Balfour Beatty PPP contracts was good and the most recently won major contracts in Essex and north-west Scotland progressed well following a successful mobilisation period.
New contracts for Windsor and Maidenhead, and Wokingham were secured and are currently in mobilisation.
Other notable successes included the award of preferred bidder status for the Carlisle Northern Relief Road, which involves an extensive 04 maintenance network, and contracting responsibility for all Balfour Beatty Capitals street lighting projects.
Contracts for Hampshire County Council and Highways Agency Area 3 were lost in competitive tender and will be handed over during the course of 2008.
The contract for Westminster continues to perform well.
A number of new local authority contracts will be bid during the year, as will a number of Highways Agency Areas.
04 Burj Mall Dutco Balfour Beatty 34 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services continued It was another very good year for Balfour Beatty Utilities as work progressed In Macau, the 200m Venetian Hotel and Casino project was completed on on a large, settled portfolio of long-term contracts in the gas and water sectors, time and work is now underway on a new 42-storey, 2,000 room hotel tower for which represents a full order book until at least 2010.
All the contracts are Venetian Orient as part of Macaus rapid development as a regional leisure and proceeding well, with particularly strong strategic relations developing further recreational centre.
with both United Utilities and National Grid.
Preparation for the next round of In Singapore, the market is now strong and bidding activity is extensive.
AMP bids will begin during the course of 2009.
We were awarded the new Chinatown Interchange Station, the first stage of During the year, we were successful in securing a new contract for the new downtown mass transit line in late summer in addition to a major road Yorkshire Water, and the 420m Northern Gas Networks contract has been improvement project at Woodsville interchange.
Preparatory work commenced successfully mobilised and is performing well.
on the ITE PPP project in Singapore where we are the preferred bidder.
Towards the end of the year, the merger of Balfour Beatty Utilities and In Dubai, Dutco Balfour Beatty and BK Gulf, in which we have 49% Balfour Beatty Power Networks to form Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions interests, both had very good years in a strong market.
The marine and was announced.
This business is, by some distance, the largest utilities construction businesses continued to grow strongly with several major project provider in the UK and has been organised into three units Power Solutions, awards.
The newly established interior t-out business also had a very which will work on National Grid and other network owners major electricity successful year and the companys operations have now been extended into projects: Network Solutions, which will include the majority of our regional Abu Dhabi.
water and low and medium voltage electrical activities: and Integrated Substantial progress was made on the Burj Mall project, the worlds Solutions, which will be responsible for the complex, long-term multilargest shopping mall, which is due to open during 2008.
Final settlement disciplinary relationships with United Utilities and the North-West Gas was agreed on the highly complex Royal Air Wing contract and several Alliance with National Grid.
major road schemes, most notably the Jumeirah Lake Tower Interchange and the Emirates Road widening, progressed well.
A new camel racing track International infrastructure was delivered on time and early works have begun on the new Tiger Woods Good progress was made on all fronts outside the UK during the year.
In the US, Championship Golf Course and Sports Complex.
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Incs performance improved sharply and the BK Gulf had an outstanding year and grew substantially.
Complex company is now profitable after several years of losses arising from contract mechanical and electrical work on the Atlantis Hotel and the Palms leisure problems on the eastern seaboard and in its central division.
complex progressed well and long-term framework agreements were signed for The actions taken to address performance issues in the companys central the company to be the M & E partner for work carried out by both Carillion and division have proved effective during 2007, with residual projects proceeding to Multiplex.
Major works at the airport are coming to a satisfactory conclusion.
satisfactory conclusions and good progress made in the resolution of The facilities management business is set for a period of strong growth with outstanding accounts.
Settlements have been achieved on a number of the contracts secured for the Atlantis complex and the National Bank of Dubai.
eastern seaboard bridge projects which have contributed to losses in past years.
The company has a healthy order backlog and is pursuing selective Outlook bidding strategies in its chosen markets, most notably the West Coast and Texas.
It is also looking at broadening its activities within these regions, where Our markets continue to offer substantial opportunity, with Dubai, Singapore and it has substantial knowledge and connections.
regional markets in the UK particularly buoyant.
We expect to see another year of It was an excellent year in the water sector, particularly in California with good progress in the sector in 2008. three major and several minor new contracts contributing positively.
Highways work in both California and Texas proceeded satisfactorily, particularly on the $1.3bn SH130 project near Austin, which is now nearing completion.
The $140m SH45 project, also adjacent to Austin, was won during the year.
The Texas roads market is highly competitive and the potential for PPP 05 Greenbush Line Boston, US Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc procurement is being explored, with several projects coming to the market and Balfour Beatty Rail Inc through this route.
The traditionally procured market in Texas is also healthy.
05 Two major projects were completed successfully in New England during the year the $350m Greenbush commuter rail project, which had a high civil engineering content, and the Narragansett Water tunnel at Providence, Rhode Island.
Substantial bidding activity is underway in Texas and on the West Coast in healthy transport and water markets.
In Hong Kong, Gammon Construction, in which we have a 50% interest, had an excellent year with a number of projects being completed to time and budget and final settlements achieved on a number of projects completed in previous periods.
Bidding opportunities in Hong Kong, Macau and particularly Singapore are plentiful and the order book has almost doubled during the year.
Shortly after the year end, we announced the award of the 320m Tamar project to build a new Hong Kong Government complex in the period to 2011.
Other notable project wins in Hong Kong included civil engineering and construction works for the university and at the airport and major building projects for Hong Kong Land and other developers.
Good progress was made on major works on the Hong Kong rail system, most notably the Kowloon Southern Loop station project and for Swire Properties.
Our business 35 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Rail Engineering and Services Good progress in performance, technology and organisation 01 Highlights Heathrow Terminal 5 rail works handed over on time Confirmation of ongoing renewals role for LUL and Network Rail New signalling joint ventures and technology systems acquisitions Good progress on the East London line Financial summary Companies Revenue Balfour Beatty Rail Projects Balfour Beatty Rail Services 785m Balfour Beatty Rail Systems and Solutions 2006: 770m Balfour Beatty Rail 01 Signalling technology and installation Signalling Solutions Order book Germany Austria 02 Remote condition monitoring Balfour Beatty Rail Systems and Solutions Balfour Beatty Rail International 0.9bn Balfour Beatty Rail Inc 2006: 0.95bn Specialist areas Profit 02 Design 44m Construction 2006: 38m Project management Maintenance Including 10m share of joint ventures and associates 2006: 4m.
Track renewals Profit from operations before 2m Specialist plant, exceptional credits 2006: 2m.
products and systems Electrification and power supplies Signalling Remote condition monitoring 36 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Rail Engineering and Services continued Major developments in 2007 Review of operations The 2007 uncertainties for our rail business arising from the entry into PPP UK rail administration of Metronet and the stated intention of Network Rail to reduce Following the appointment of a new Group managing director with its supply base for rail renewals from six to four were resolved positively, with responsibility for rail early in the year, the structure of our UK rail interests conrmation of our ongoing role on both the underground and overground was revised signicantly.
The guiding principles of the reorganisation networks.
The UK Government published a Rail White Paper which confirmed programme were to make the organisation more customer sensitive and signicantly increased future investment, including the go ahead for Thameslink.
responsive, to shorten reporting lines and to increase cost effectiveness The Crossrail project was confirmed and prospects for the electrication of through overhead reduction.
The UK rail headquarters operation was disbanded and three new We continued to strengthen our market position with acquisitions in divisions were created, all reporting directly to the Group managing director.
systems technology and in the Swedish market at a total cost of 12m, and the The existing divisions were merged, with Renewals and Plant pulled together formation of new signalling joint ventures in both the UK and Germany.
The UK as Balfour Beatty Rail Services, Projects and London Underground Services business was reorganised better to match evolving customer requirements.
combined as Balfour Beatty Rail Projects, and the Track Systems and Technologies divisions were integrated to become Balfour Beatty Rail Our markets Systems and Solutions.
During 2007, our rail businesses operated in largely at markets, which are not Balfour Beatty Rail Services had a satisfactory year, with the expected to grow in 2008.
There are now, however, clear signs of medium-term renewals business performing well despite the absence of the settlement improvement in many of our principal markets.
The stimulus of the UK income in respect of the close-out of the previous generation of Network Rail Government White Paper and the conrmation of the Thameslink and Crossrail renewal contracts which augmented its 2006 numbers.
Operational projects create the best market outlook in the UK for some years.
Investment in performance continued to improve during the year and, in September, Network mass transit systems and high-speed rail links around the world is growing and Rail confirmed that we were one of four renewals contractors to be retained major project bidding opportunities are increasing.
for future work as they reduced their current supply base from a group of six.
It is anticipated that the new contracts, currently in negotiation, will be Our 2007 performance nalised during the first half of 2008.
The new arrangements, under which Balfour Beatty will be responsible for the same geographic areas as before, profits for the year improved by 16%.
Performance was good in all business are intended to provide long-term security for the successful contracts and streams in the UK, with our rail projects, renewals, track systems and plant facilitate improvements in dening and planning necessary work.
businesses making progress in a largely flat market.
Outside the UK, our Balfour Beatty Rail Plant, now integrated with the renewals business, international rail electrification and power supply business continued to continued to perform very well as investment in new equipment continued and perform well and our performance in the US improved.
improvements in plant reliability and availability were achieved.
Balfour Beatty Rail Projects improved its performance in a year of significant activity arising from the final stages of the integration and delivery of all the rail systems and services related to the new Terminal 5 at Heathrow Airport for BAA.
Other ongoing projects, including those in Australia, progressed well as did the early stages of the East London Line, largely civil engineering work, which provides the basis for the technical rail work which will be underway shortly.
In October, Signalling Solutions Ltd, a joint venture with Alstom was created, which combines the signalling resources of Alstom Transport Information Systems with those of Balfour Beatty Rail Projects to provide UK and Irish markets with a full-service signalling supplier.
03 The new business, which employs over 300 staff, provides planning, design, product supply, installation, testing and commissioning expertise for all types of railway.
It has already secured over 70m of UK project work.
The contract on the Santiago Metro was completed and a 30m contract has been secured for the track and electrification on the next segment of the system.
Bids are also in preparation for Metro system track and electrification works in Mumbai and New Delhi.
London Underground Services, now combined with Balfour Beatty Rail Projects, performed well with work continuing for London Underground at high volumes, despite Metronets entry into administration.
New contractual arrangements will come into force at the time of the handover of Metronet from the administrator to Transport for London.
03 Network Rail track renewals Balfour Beatty Rail Services Our business 37 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Balfour Beatty Rail Track Systems performed well with a first full-year Rail operations outside the UK contribution from the Edgar Allen business acquired in 2006.
The integration of In Balfour Beatty Rail Germany and Austria, performance was good.
the new business was successfully accomplished during the year.
A condition The final elements of the complex Nuremberg to Ingolstadt electrication of the purchase of Edgar Allen was that the land on which their current project were completed, and good progress was made on the years largest operations are undertaken would remain with the vendor.
In consequence, Deutsche Bahn electrification investment the fully-electried, double-track the Edgar Allen business is moving to new premises at South Queensferry.
Hamburg to Lbeck line project in northern Germany, which is a preparatory The major capital investment programme involved is already well advanced step for the anticipated direct rail link between Germany and Denmark.
and is proceeding on time.
The existing key resources are being retained in The signalling joint venture formed in 2007 with Bombardier Transportation the business as a result of the proximity of the new facilities to the old.
progressed well, with 40m of work now secured for the development of the Balfour Beatty Rail Technologies, with which Track Systems has new European Rail Trafc Management System which will promote the adoption now been combined, continues to develop concepts and products aimed at of a common European signalling system.
improving network safety and reliability.
Work continued on a patented track In early 2007, Balfour Beatty, together with partners, received a stabilisation technology and a low-speed specic solid-state interlocking preliminary award for the rail systems work for the new Gotthard base tunnel signalling system.
in Switzerland by Swiss National Railways.
The multi-disciplinary rail contract, During the year we acquired Laser Rail, the specialist technology, likely to be worth approximately 250m to Balfour Beatty Rail, is due to be software and support services company which supports the engineering of the signed in April 2008.
The work comprises the installation of all rail engineering rail infrastructure and, particularly, its interface with trains.
The company has equipment for two 57 kilometre long tunnels as well as the adjoining open developed and holds intellectual property rights for a variety of specialist north and south track sections.
software for the assessment of  clearance and also more Balfour Beatty will be responsible for total project management, general analysis and management of rail infrastructure data.
UK market complex logistics, trackwork, power supply and cable equipment, light and leadership in this area provides a strong base for international development power systems, overhead catenary lines and other systems, equipment in a fast-growing sector.
Balfour Beatty Rail International, which comprises the Groups rail 04 interests in Italy, Sweden, Spain, China and Malaysia, made good progress.
In Italy performance was good, as work continued on the major high-speed electrication projects between Milan and Malpensa, Milan and Bologna and Bologna and Firenze.
During the year, the business secured the25 million project to design and install a trolley bus system in the city of Pescara, a congestion solution being considered currently by a number of other Italian cities.
In Sweden, the electrication and track modernisation project on the Blekinge coastline was successfully completed and handed over on time.
The work on the Botniabanan track project continued.
Completion is scheduled for 2008 and we have now been awarded the consequent electrication contract.
During the year, two acquisitions were completed in Sweden to augment the existing business.
The Nordic rail signalling and communications business of SAAB Systems, followed by the multi-disciplinary business previously owned by Carillion.
As a result, Balfour Beatty is now the largest and most broadly- 04 Rawang-Ipoh line, Malaysia Balfour Beatty Rail International based rail infrastructure company in Sweden and the Nordic region in general.
05 05 Rail electrification, Dortmund Balfour Beatty Rail Germany 38 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Rail Engineering and Services continued In Spain, Balfour Beatty carried out work on the Madrid and Barcelona metro Balfour Beatty Rail Inc in the US, performed signicantly better than in 2006 systems and is well placed for a number of new high-speed electrication and in line with forecasts.
During the year the major signalling project at Broad projects due to come to market in 2008.
Street in Philadelphia and the Greenbush Commuter Line in Boston for the The development of our rail business in China continued to progress.
Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority were completed.
During the year, we were awarded the 35m contract to design, supply, install Major new projects were secured for the $60m signalling, and commission an overhead line system for the 968 kilometre Wuhancommunications and electrification of the Denver Western Corridor and a bid for Guangzhou railway.
Work continued satisfactorily on our electrication project the $340m multi-disciplinary West Valley Airport line project in Salt Lake City is between Tianjin and Shenyang.
We have also entered a bid for the Tianjinin final adjudication.
There is renewed life in the US mass transit market, Wuhan line and our joint venture for manufacturing components for catenary including proposals coming forward for a number of Airport-City links, projects is now fully operational.
particularly in the western part of the US.
In Malaysia, work was completed successfully on the electrication of The regional rail services business continues to improve performance the Rawang-Ipoh line, with first rolling stock test runs now complete.
We are with some rationalisation to concentrate more effectively on the most now bidding for the electrication work for the northern section of the line up profitable business areas.
There was good progress on the Goldline project to the Thai border.
Our contract for the maintenance of the Klang Valley line in Los Angeles.
During 2008, the rail headquarters operation will be moved from Jacksonville, Florida to Atlanta, the location of both Heery and Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Head Ofces, in order to take advantage of both a more central business location and access to services shared with the other companies.
The business is now well placed for growth on a more stable base in a strengthening market.
Outlook During 2007, our rail business operated in largely flat markets, which are not expected to grow during 2008.
The medium and long-term market outlook is showing clear signs of improvement across the board.
06 06 Milan to Bologna electrification Balfour Beatty Rail Italy Our business 39 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Investments A year of progress in core markets and strategic expansion 01 Highlights Acquisition of Exeter International Airport completed ITE Singapore success our first PPP outside the UK A further three PPP project preferred bidder awards Five PPP projects reach financial close Financial summary Companies Revenue Balfour Beatty Capital UK Balfour Beatty Capital US 394m Balfour Beatty Capital Germany 2006: 320m Gammon Capital PPP Concessions in hand Aberdeen Environmental Services Connect Roads 27 Consort Healthcare 2006: 23 Health Management UCLH Profit Powerlink Transform Schools 16m Other infrastructure investments 2006: 24m Barking Power 01 Exeter International Airport Balfour Beatty Capital From continuing operations, including 343m Exeter International Airport share of joint ventures and associates 02 Institute of Technical Education, Singapore Gammon Capital 2006: 306m.
Specialist areas 02 Profit from continuing operations.
Healthcare Education Roads Power systems Water Airports 40 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Investments continued Major developments in 2007 2007 performance The strategic extension of our investment business into non-PPP investments and profit from continuing operations, before exceptional items, in Investments PPP markets outside the UK was marked by the completion of our acquisition of reduced by 8m to 16m in 2007.
This reflected good underlying concession Exeter International Airport and the award of preferred bidder status on our first performance, but also substantial and increasing investment in developing our non-UK PPP project the 90m Institute of Technical Education in Singapore.
PPP operations in the US, Germany and South-East Asia, in bidding for projects Core UK PPP growth continued.
in these markets and for non-PPP assets.
In July, the Metronet concessions for the London Underground PPP, in Five PPP projects in the UK, with a total capital value of over 700m and which we had a 20% interest, entered PPP administration.
The investment in involving equity investments totalling 48m, reached financial close and Exeter this project was written off as exceptional.
The London Underground PPP was International Airport was also acquired in January 2007, involving an 18m unique and we do not believe that any lasting negative impact on the PPP equity investment for Balfour Beatty.
Preferred bidder status was achieved for market will arise as a result of Metronets administration.
four projects, namely Fife Hospital, Islington Schools, the Institute of Technical Education in Singapore and Carlisle Northern Distributor Road.
The market Barking Power again performed satisfactorily, with profits in line with those of 2006.
In its first year of ownership, Exeter International Airport The UK PPP market remains buoyant and is expected to continue to produce a performed at anticipated levels.
steady ow of opportunities: in schools through the 14-year Building Schools for the Future initiative: in hospitals, particularly in Northern Ireland, although Outlook there has been a reduction in the number of very large hospitals coming to the market elsewhere: and in social housing.
In transport, the award of the 1.5bn We anticipate that the operating performance of our concessions will continue M25 widening scheme, which is expected in the first half of 2008, is likely to meet expectations in 2008.
The UK PPP market remains buoyant and is to be followed by similar schemes to increase motorway capacity.
expected to continue to produce a steady flow of opportunities.
Our investment In the US, the road and rail transport sector is proving slow to take off, in resources to exploit new PPP markets and in bidding projects is accelerating, but both the schools and hospital accommodation markets look very promising.
the costs of which will impact reported results in the sector in 2008.
On completion of the acquisition of GMH Military Housing, we will become a leading participant in the US military accommodation PPP market.
Markets in Germany and South-East Asia are developing steadily.
Strategy Given its clear competitive advantages and market leading positions, Balfour Beatty will continue to pursue UK PPP bidding opportunities and seek to apply its UK PPP expertise in selected international markets where our UK experience is relevant and where the complexity and size of projects provides opportunity for the construction and service capabilities of the Balfour Beatty Group.
In addition, we will seek to leverage our expertise to pursue selected opportunities through renancing and carefully targeted acquisitions and divestments in the secondary PPP market and apply the skills we have acquired in PPP to the wider infrastructure market where there are attractive investment opportunities and the ability to generate work for the remainder of the Group.
Directors valuation 2007 Alternative valuation 2007 466 million Other 30 Education 54 Healthcare 211 299 million Other 22 Education 22 Healthcare 121 Roads 171 Roads 134 Directors valuation Alternative valuation Using the same, blended, post-tax nominal discount rate of 8.1% as in 2006, In response to the increased importance of infrastructure investment, Balfour the 2007 Directors valuation of our UK PPP portfolio stands at 299m Beatty is also providing an alternative valuation.
value the portfolio but applies a single discount rate of 6% to the cash flows, A full explanation of our PPP valuation is on pages 6 to 7 of the Directors excluding shareholder tax, of concessions which have reached financial report and accounts.
close or are at preferred bidder stage.
A full explanation of our PPP valuation is on pages 6 to 7 of the Directors report and accounts.
Our business 41 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Hospitals Education Consort Healthcare, Balfour Beattys branded organisation in the healthcare Balfour Beattys market-leading branded organisation in the UK education market, continued to perform well in 2007.
Consorts portfolio comprises market, Transform Schools, continued to perform well in 2007.
Transforms interests in nine major hospital projects and a committed equity investment portfolio consists of seven large-scale schools schemes with 48m of of 123m, of which 7m is at preferred bidder stage.
committed equity investment, of which 3m is at preferred bidder stage.
North Durham, Edinburgh Royal Inrmary, University College London Construction and operations are proceeding well at our Stoke, Hospital and Royal Blackburn were already fully operational at the beginning Rotherham, Bassetlaw, North Lanarkshire and Birmingham concessions.
At Birmingham Hospital, the mental health facility is due to open in In May, Transform was appointed preferred bidder by Islington Council 2008 and the remainder by 2011. for the 140m PPP concession to deliver eight secondary schools and two pupil In January 2007, Consort became preferred bidder for the Fife General referral units under the Building Schools for the Future BSF programme.
Hospital and Maternity Services PPP project comprising a new 152m wing Balfour Beatty will invest 3m in equity in the project, which will be delivered at Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy, Fife.
in three phases commencing in early 2008.
In June, Consort reached financial close on the Mid Yorkshire Hospitals In December, Transform reached financial close on the 163m Knowsley NHS Trusts Pinderelds and Pontefract Hospitals Development PPP Project.
Metropolitan Borough Council PPP concession to construct seven new The 311m project will deliver a new acute in-patient hospital in Wakeeld learning centres under the Building Schools for the Future BSF initiative.
on the existing Pinderelds Hospital site and a new Diagnostic and Treatment The concession will replace all of the Boroughs existing secondary schools over Centre in Pontefract.
The new hospitals are due to open in 2009 and 2010. a three-year period.
The project will involve state-of-the-art educational In September, Consort reached financial close on the 136m Salford Royal methods and techniques.
NHS Foundation Trust PFI project and the 77m Tameside and Glossop Acute Bids are in preparation for Derbyshire, Southwark and Sandwell schools Services NHS Trust PFI project in Greater Manchester.
On both projects, Consort projects, with a combined value of 685m.
will redevelop and provide new buildings on the existing hospital sites.
Consort Healthcare remains a clear market leader in UK PPP hospitals with a proven track record, a differentiated approach and high levels of client satisfaction.
Bids are in preparation for Enniskillen and Omagh both in Northern Ireland with a combined value of 405m, along with a number of opportunities in Germany and the UK.
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary 73.9% University Hospital of North Durham 50% University College London Hospital UCLH 33.3% Stoke Schools 50% Royal Blackburn Hospital 50% Rotherham Schools 50% Birmingham Hospitals 40% North Lanarkshire Schools 50% Pinderelds and Pontefract Hospitals 50% Bassetlaw Schools 50% Salford Hope Hospital 50% Birmingham Schools 50% Tameside Hospital 50% Knowsley Schools 100% Fife Hospital 50% Islington Schools 80% Preferred bidder.
42 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Operating review Investments continued Infrastructure projects Roads and street lighting Other PPP concessions During 2007, Connect Roads, Balfour Beattys branded organisation in the Powerlink and PADCO have upgraded and now operate and maintain London highways market, performed strongly.
Undergrounds high voltage power system.
They have also procured and The total committed equity in the roads sector is 68m, of which 5m nanced new power assets on behalf of LUL.
The complex programmes is at preferred bidder stage.
involved in this concession are proceeding satisfactorily.
In April, Connect reached financial close on the 25-year, 36m PFI street Aberdeen Environmental Services is responsible for wastewater lighting concession for Derby City Council.
The project involves the replacement treatment in Aberdeen.
In June 2007, the Stonehaven plant which is now being of 20,100 lighting columns and 3,200 illuminated signs during the five-year constructed was incorporated into the project.
The operations and performance capital investment period.
of the concession are in line with expectations.
In November, Connect was awarded preferred bidder status on the In November, Gammon Capital in which Balfour Beatty has a 50% 150m Carlisle Northern Distributor Road PFI project by Cumbria City Council.
interest was appointed preferred bidder for the 90m new Institute of The 30-year concession contract involves the design and construction of a new Technical Education ITE in Singapore.
Financial close is anticipated in the first road and the provision of whole-life operation and maintenance services for a half of 2008 with the first student intake scheduled for July 2010. network of roads in the area.
Balfour Beatty has committed 12m of equity to these concessions.
We are one of three groups to have submitted a bid, as part of a consortium of companies, for the 1.5bn M25 widening project, for which preferred bidder announcement by the Highways Agency is expected in spring 2008.
Other bids are in preparation for the M80 road project and street lighting projects in Surrey, Nottingham and the south-east.
These projects have a combined capital value of over 600m.
M1-A1 50% A50 Stoke Derby link 85% A30 A35 85% M77 Glasgow Southern Orbital 85% Sunderland Street Lighting 100% South Tyne Street Lighting 100% Powerlink PADCO 10% 25% Derby Street Lighting 100% Aberdeen Environmental Services 45% Carlisle Northern Development Route 100% Institute of Technical Education, Singapore 50% Preferred bidder.
Our business 43 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Non-PPP investments Barking Power Metronet discontinued business Barking Power in which Balfour Beatty has a 25.5% shareholding and which Metronet, in which Balfour Beatty was a 20% shareholder, operated and owns and operates a 1,000MW gas-red power station in east London, again maintained the Bakerloo, Central and Victoria Lines BCV and the sub-surface performed very well, with profits at a similar level to those of last year.
For the lines SSL for London Underground from April 2003, in a concession planned majority of the year, the station operated reliably at high levels of its capacity.
Open market electricity prices, which apply to 28% of the stations output, In June, Metronet made an application for an Extraordinary Review of the were again advantageous.
incurred and forecast costs for the BCV Line concession.
This process was set In the latter part of the year, a steam turbine fault limited the stations out under the contract and allowed for an external arbiter to award additional availability.
Full service has now been resumed, with the output losses funding to the extent that Metronet could demonstrate that it had acted in an substantially covered by insurance.
During the year planning permission was economic and efficient manner.
An application for the SSL concession was secured for a potential 450MW extension to the station.
Given the uncertainties pending the outcome of the Review, the level Exeter International Airport of unanticipated costs associated with the concessions capital programmes and Metronets funding position, Transport for London, on behalf of the Exeter International Airport is one of the fastest growing regional airports in Mayor, made an application to the Court for the BCV and SSL concession the UK and currently handles over one million passengers per year, with companies to be placed in PPP administration.
Balfour Beatty has taken an passenger numbers forecast to double by 2016.
Balfour Beatty Capital exceptional charge in respect of Metronet, including the write-off of the equity completed its acquisition from Devon County Council in January 2007 for 60m.
invested in the Metronet concessions and the profits recognised in respect of The acquisition was nanced by 30m of Balfour Beatty equity, with 12m of these investments in prior years.
this sum subsequently sold to an infrastructure investment fund.
An airport development master plan is being prepared in consultation with a wide range of the airports stakeholders and investment in the airport is developing in line with our acquisition plan, phased in anticipation of continuing increases in passenger numbers.
This will eventually include new terminal facilities, aircraft stands and taxiway extensions.
Shortly after the acquisition, Flybe, the largest European regional airline, confirmed its intention to retain its headquarters at the airport and to invest in new technical and maintenance facilities there.
The airport serves a strong local and regional economy and is expected to both increase market share and benefit from an increased propensity to y. Barking Power Ltd 25.5% Exeter International Airport 60% 44 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Corporate responsibility Governance and management Safety The Groups stated aim is to operate in such a way as to have zero fatalities, The Board zero permanent disabling injuries and to be accident-free overall.
Over recent years, the Group and its subsidiaries have made good The Balfour Beatty Board sets policy for the Groups performance in safety, progress in reducing accidents.
In 2007, its Accident Frequency Rate AFR was health, the environment, business ethics, risk management, human rights and reduced by 16%, the fifth consecutive year of improvement, and stood at 0.21 other social issues.
In early 2001, a Business Practices Committee of the Board reportable accidents per 100,000 man-hours worked.
This has been achieved was established to review policy and practice in these areas.
despite very significant increases in numbers employed.
The safety statistics Its terms of reference are currently under review.
are subject to external audit.
Performance is benchmarked against industry norms in the UK, Germany, Guiding principles US and Hong Kong.
This performance compares favourably with these external benchmarks.
Balfour Beatty first produced a coherent set of Company Principles in 1986.
Regrettably, there were 18 fatalities during the year, 14 of which were Since then, they have been regularly reviewed and updated, most recently in joint venture businesses not controlled by the Group or its subsidiaries.
This high level of fatalities during 2007, which has particularly affected our Two companion codes were also developed at that time.
Business businesses in Hong Kong and Dubai, is the subject of intense investigation and Conduct Guidelines explains to every employee what is expected of them a range of corrective actions has been implemented.
Significant effort is made in terms of behaviour, procedures and attitudes, when they are working or in improving safety management standards in the Groups overseas otherwise representing their company.
In 2008, employees will receive online subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to match the high standards that are training in these guidelines.
Stakeholder Codes of Practice sets key operating principles and minimum standards for the Groups operating companies when engaging with employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
Together, these documents constitute a comprehensive system of ethical governance.
Management systems The Group-wide risk management framework provides a common system for identifying and controlling risks of all types.
Each operating company, division and project is subject to rigorous risk analysis, evaluation and management.
Major risks are reviewed regularly at senior management levels.
Safety and health issues are reviewed by the Health and Safety Council, with each main segment of the business having its own equivalent body.
Balfour Beatty requires all its operating companies to have formal safety management systems, which are subject to external audit.
Environmental issues are reviewed at the Environmental Strategy Group comprised of representatives of the operating companies under the chairmanship of the director of Safety, Health and the Environment.
Environmental management systems are audited regularly and Group-wide Safety statistics are collated in respect of the Groups major environmental impacts.
Accident frequency Waste rate reduced by 16% 22% less waste produced 16% 22% i i Our business 45 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Health The rigorous standards which the Group applies to safety management Environmentally sensitive areas are increasingly now being applied to occupational health.
Occupational The Group has extended its range of key indicators to include positive and ill-health is often the result of prolonged exposure to substance, condition, negative effects on environmentally sensitive sites and is developing its policy process or activity and is not, therefore, easily tractable in the short term.
Archaeological aspects of sites are explored thoroughly before The Groups approach is to identify the potential causes of ill-health and commencement of use.
develop specific policies and programmes for each one.
Active programmes exist for hand-arm vibration syndrome, disorders arising from manual handling, alcohol and drug abuse and substances hazardous to health.
Stakeholder engagement Occupational health support services provision was improved in 2007 and There is a comprehensive corporate and operating company-based stress management arrangements were also further enhanced.
communications and engagement programme aimed at ensuring that all stakeholders most notably, employees, customers, suppliers, government, Environment regulators and the communities around or affected by our projects, have access Balfour Beatty works systematically to prevent negative environmental impact to the information they need and can represent their views to the company.
from its activities and to improve its environmental performance at every stage of its work.
The Groups approach is structured and risk based with formal Employees environmental management systems.
It continues to take the necessary steps Most operating companies conduct regular employee attitude and opinion to embed environmental management systems into the business both in the surveys.
During 2007, the first Group-wide survey of employee opinion took UK and overseas.
In addition to other measures, this confirmed that employees were The Group reviews and maintains progress by monitoring trends and aware of the Groups whistle-blowing policy and there were 16 cases raised performance in five specific areas.
These are energy use and global warming: during the year eight in 2006. resource usage: waste and recycling: water consumption: and impact on The Groups equal opportunities performance is measured annually.
The robustness of the Groups environmental In 2007, 20.7% of UK employees were women and 9.4% were of ethnic management systems is also measured.
These statistics are considerably improved from when measurement of the issue first took place in 1999.
At graduate intake level, the Resource usage proportion of women is 20% and of ethnic minorities is 10%.
There is an increasingly systematic focus on our sourcing of materials, usage of non-renewable resources and evaluating and managing the Groups supply Shareholders chain in respect of environmental issues.
Balfour Beatty runs an active shareholder engagement programme involving regular roadshows and one-to-one meetings.
During 2007, senior executives Waste held over 100 meetings with shareholders, representing, in aggregate, The construction process typically generates large volumes of waste.
Over the approximately 60% of the issued share capital.
All financial presentations are last six years, Balfour Beatty has raised the awareness of this problem across webcast in order to ensure that they are accessible to all shareholder groups the business, and has improved its focus on waste reduction, recycling and and other interested parties.
The total amount of UK waste generated in 2007 was 155 tonnes relative Customers to m NSV, a 22% reduction.
Most of the Groups operating companies run regular attitude and opinion surveys.
A substantial proportion of the Groups business is conducted with Energy usage organisations with which its operating companies have long-term relationships.
Balfour Beatty has reduced its UK carbon footprint by 32% over the period 20022007.
The Group invests in new and emerging technologies for vehicle Suppliers emission reduction.
Most particularly, significant improvements have been An increasing proportion of the Groups supply base is retained in long-term achieved by the use of GPS and vehicle tracking systems in more economical relationships based on compatibility of their values and behaviour as well as vehicle routing and usage.
The Group has developed and implemented a Supply Chain Environmental Risk and Impact Grading Tool to assess supply chain risks.
Water consumption Improved reporting of waster consumption data following the installation of water Government and regulations meters has resulted in an increase of 6% in reported water consumption in 2007.
Over half of Balfour Beattys work is carried out for governments.
The Group seeks active and positive relationships with governments, their officers and Carbon footprint advisers and relevant industry regulators to ensure its policies align with their key requirements.
UK carbon footprint reduced Communities around our projects by 32% over five years It is Balfour Beattys policy that all its major projects have a dedicated community relations team.
Typically, major projects will be preceded by exhibitions, and regular newsletters and letter drops will keep interested parties informed at key project milestones.
Key stakeholders will be offered direct access and, when necessary, there will be liaison with local police and other emergency services and help lines.
32% i 46 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Corporate responsibility continued Building better communities Groundwork UK Our corporate responsibility programme Balfour Beatty works with Groundwork UK, the network of local trusts which Balfour Beattys work enhances the physical environment.
It creates supports communities in need by working with partners to help improve the educational, healthcare, transportation and other social capital.
The Group quality of peoples lives, their prospects and potential and the places where believes that it has a responsibility to extend the positive impact which its they work and play.
Every year, Balfour Beatty finances three schemes, which work has on the lives of asset users to the wider community in which the enhance the physical environment close to its major projects and, in so doing, company operates.
engages the energies and time of disadvantaged young people.
Projects in A key theme in Balfour Beattys CSR activities is enhancing the lives of 2007 included upgrading a recreation site in Hertfordshire, a woodland young people, particularly those at risk or at some disadvantage, and improving regeneration scheme in Merseyside and the development of an the communities in which they live and grow.
This theme finds expression environmentally friendly, sustainable allotment garden in Stoke-on-Trent.
through a number of initiatives, at corporate, operating company and local and individual project level.
NCH London Youth Games 2008 will be the second year that NCH has been Balfour Beattys Charity of the Year.
The London Youth Games is Europes largest youth sports programme, with the NCH helps children achieve their full potential.
Through its services, it potential to engage the entire population of Londons state primary and supports some of the UKs most vulnerable and excluded children and young secondary schools in sporting activities and competition.
people affected by issues such as poverty, disability and abuse.
It is the UKs In 2007, Balfour Beatty, which has been associated with the Games for leading provider of family and community centres, childrens services in rural the last two years, decided to take on the role of lead partner to the Games areas, services for disabled children and their families and services for young until 2013 with a sponsorship contribution of at least 1.7m over the period.
The organisers ambition is to greatly increase the size of and participation The Group gave over 115,000 to NCH in 2007.
Over 80,000 of this total in the Games and Balfour Beattys funding and support guarantees that the was raised by employees through a wide variety of events and activities.
This Games will grow over the partnership period.
included a combined team of 21 walkers from Haden Young and Balfour Beatty A substantial proportion of the funding is set aside for grant applications Construction Northern raising over 18,000 on the three peaks challenge.
from the London boroughs for schemes that enhance grass roots participation and, in particular, promote involvement amongst disadvantaged groups Get into Construction including the disabled and children in areas of multiple deprivation.
About one in five young people in the UK are not in work, education or training.
Stoke Football Action The Princes Trust, the UKs leading youth charity, gives practical and financial support to 14 to 30 year olds, helping them to tackle their problems and get Over 100,000 of funding and substantial management support from Balfour their lives back on track.
The charity focuses on those who have struggled at Beatty has unlocked public sector funds to create a 320,000 three-year school, have been in care, are long-term unemployed or have been in trouble football coaching programme in Stoke, where Balfour Beatty is the PPP schools with the law.
Now entering its final year, the programme has proven Balfour Beatty is a founding sponsor and leading member of the Trusts extremely effective in reducing vandalism and other anti-social behaviour Get into Construction initiative, whereby young customers of the Trust are amongst pupils at risk of social exclusion.
given a two-to four-week work experience programme which trains them in carpentry, plastering, bricklaying, painting and decorating.
Those who pass gain a Construction Skills Certificate Scheme Card and six months support from an adviser at the start of their apprenticeship, 01 Stoke Football Action In its first year, over 500 young people from employment or training.
13 schools received football coaching and played in competitive leagues.
By the end of 2008, over 500 young people will have been through the Vandalism rates have dropped steadily since the introduction of the scheme.
The programme is continuing to grow strongly.
02 Get into Construction Disadvantaged young people are given the opportunity to acquire basic construction skills through the Princes Trust Get into Construction initiative.
01 02 Our business 47 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 03 Other aspects of our corporate responsibility programme include: Fighting corruption Balfour Beatty is a corporate supporter of Transparency International, the not-for-profit private company set up in 1993 to fight corruption.
It is also a leading and active member of the UK Anti-Corruption Forum which promotes effective and co-ordinated action to reduce corruption on both a domestic and international basis on both the demand and supply side of construction and infrastructure markets.
Fighting poverty Balfour Beatty is a major sponsor and principal supporter of the international charity, Engineers Against Poverty, which produces practical policies and innovative solutions to support the alleviation of poverty, create jobs and promote enterprise development in low income countries.
Fighting homelessness Balfour Beatty is a patron of CRASH, the construction industry charity for the homeless.
The Group supports the charity through participation in a number of its fundraising schemes.
Chief Executive, Ian Tyler, is the 03 Groundwork Amenity improvement projects across the UK, such as this organisations President.
one for Baytrees Community Garden in Manchester, give young people the chance to get involved in community work.
04 London Youth Games London Youth Games graduates and British Olympians, Christine Ohuruogu and Jo Fenn meet young competitors at the launch of Balfour Beattys six-year sponsorship programme for the London Youth Games.
04 48 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Board of Directors Sir David John KCMG Non-Executive Chairman to 15 May 2008 Ian Tyler Steven Marshall Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman from 15 May 2008 Anthony Rabin Duncan Magrath Deputy Chief Executive from 31 March 2008 Finance Director from 31 March 2008 Peter Zinkin Gordon Sage Planning and Development Director Non-Executive Director Hans Christoph von Rohr Mike Donovan Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stephen Howard Robert Walvis Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Our governance 49 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Sir David John KCMG Steven Marshall Non-Executive Chairman to 15 May 2008 Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Chairman from 15 May 2008 Age 69.
Appointed a Director in 2000 and became Chairman in 2003.
Appointed a Director in 2005 and chairman of audit committee from chairman of Premier Oil plc and The BSI Group, and a past non-executive January 2006.
Currently also chairman of Delta plc and a non-executive director chairman of The BOC Group plc.
Formerly a director of Inchcape plc, he is a of Southern Water.
He is also a former chairman at both Queens Moat Houses member of the CBIs International Advisory Board.
plc and at Torex Retail plc.
He was chief executive of Thorn plc and of Railtrack Group plc, having also served as group finance director at each company.
Ian Tyler His earlier career included a wide range of corporate and operational roles at Chief Executive Grand Metropolitan plc, Black & Decker and BOC.
A Fellow of the Chartered Age 47.
A Director since 1999, he became Chief Institute of Management Accountants.
Executive in January 2005, having been Chief Operating officer since 2002 and prior to that, Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 from the Duncan Magrath Hanson Group where he was finance director of ARC Ltd, one of its principal Finance Director from 31 March 2008 subsidiaries.
He is currently president of Construction Industry Relief, Age 43.
A chartered accountant and a graduate engineer.
Joined Balfour Beatty Assistance and Support for the Homeless Ltd, the construction and property as Deputy Finance Director from Exel plc, where he was director of investor industry charity for the homeless.
relations and financial strategy, following a number of senior financial roles in the UK and US.
Anthony Rabin Finance Director, Deputy Chief Executive from 31 March 2008 Gordon Sage Age 52.
A Director since 2002, he is Non-Executive Director also responsible for the Groups Investments business, having previously been Age 61.
A chemical engineer, he is a nonmanaging director of Balfour Beatty Capital.
Prior to joining Balfour Beatty, he executive director of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc.
Between 1970 was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand and before that, a senior assistant director and 2001 he held a series of increasingly senior positions in Rio Tinto plc, at Morgan Grenfell.
nally as executive director responsible for its industrial minerals and diamonds businesses.
Peter Zinkin Planning and Development Director Hans Christoph von Rohr Age 54.
Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning and Development Non-Executive Director Director in 1991 after a series of senior positions in the finance function.
He is a partner of the international law Previously, he worked at the London Business School and UMIST.
rm TaylorWessing, a member of the Advisory Council of Deutsche Bank AG, a member and past chairman of the supervisory board of the Industrial Mike Donovan Investment Council, a member of the supervisory board of SWB AG, and a Non-Executive Director member of the board of trustees of Underwriters Laboratories Inc.
He has an engineering background and chairman of the German Institute for Market Economy and Competition.
was most recently chief operating officer of Marconi plc from 2001 to 2005.
Previously, he was chief executive officer of the German manufacturing group, Prior to that he was chief executive officer of Marconi Systems and was Klckner-Werke AG.
previously responsible for managing major divisions of British Aerospace, Vickers and the Rover Group.
Robert Walvis Non-Executive Director Stephen Howard Age 61.
Previously with the Royal Dutch Shell Non-Executive Director Group, latterly as chairman of the Global Corporate Centre of the Royal Dutch Age 55.
He is a lawyer by background and Shell Group of Companies.
He is a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey was most recently group chief executive of Novar plc.
Prior to that, he was plc and British Energy plc, and chairman of the supervisory board of Allianz chief executive of Cookson Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Nederland Groep NV.
He is the senior independent Director.
SEGRO plc and is chief executive of Business in the Community.
Board Committee membership during 2007 was as follows: Audit Committee Business Practices Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Steven Marshall Chair Sir David John Chair Sir David John Chair Robert Walvis Chair Mike Donovan Mike Donovan Mike Donovan Stephen Howard Stephen Howard Christoph von Rohr Stephen Howard Steven Marshall Gordon Sage Robert Walvis Steven Marshall Gordon Sage Christoph von Rohr Gordon Sage Christoph von Rohr Ian Tyler Robert Walvis 50 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary Directors report Dividends Throughout 2007 and as at the date of this report, the Chairman was Sir David John, the Chief Executive was Ian Tyler and the senior independent The Directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares of 6.9p net Director was Robert Walvis.
The chairman of the Audit Committee in 2007 was per share, making, with the interim dividend of 4.6p, a total dividend for 2007 Steven Marshall who remains chairman as at the date of this summary report.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference Sir David John continued as chairman of each of the Nomination Committee share have been paid for 2007. and the Business Practices Committee, and Robert Walvis continued as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, throughout the year, and each Share capital and major shareholders remains chairman as at the date of this summary report.
During the year to 31 December 2007 no ordinary shares were repurchased The Board operates both formally, through Board and Board Committee for cancellation and 4,957,163 preference shares representing 4.23% meetings, and informally through regular contact between Directors as of the preference share capital were repurchased for cancellation for a total required.
Decisions on a list of specic matters, including the approval of consideration of 7,500,534 at an average price of 151.3p.
1,286,018 ordinary financial statements, major tenders and capital expenditure, and most shares were issued following the exercise of options held under the Companys acquisitions and disposals, are reserved to the Board or Board Committees.
savings-related share option scheme and 1,271,342 ordinary shares were Matters falling outside the list are delegated to management.
The list of these issued following the exercise of options held under the Companys executive reserved matters is reviewed by the Board from time to time, most recently in share option schemes.
No other shares were issued during the year.
At 31 December 2007, the Directors had authority, under the Chairman shareholders resolutions approved at the AGM and separate class meeting Sir David John became Chairman in May 2003, having joined the Board held in May 2007, to purchase through the market 43,071,984 ordinary shares in August 2000.
Sir David spends an average of two days per week on and 17,245,795 preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
the business of the Company.
He has other significant commitments as This authority expires at the conclusion of the separate Class meeting which non-executive chairman of The BSI Group and of Premier Oil plc.
The Board follows the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
considers that his other commitments are not of such a nature as to hinder As at 4 March 2008, the Company had been notied in accordance with his activities as chairman of the Company or those as chairman of the the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority Nomination and Business Practices Committees.
It was announced on of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: 25 February 2008 that Sir David was stepping down as Chairman after the AGM on 15 May 2008 and that Steven Marshall would succeed him Standard Life Investments Limited 9.06% as Chairman.
Lloyds TSB Group plc 6.30% Schroder Investment Management Limited 6.06% Directors Legal & General Group plc 4.01% Brief biographical details of the Directors, including the Chairman, are given Prudential plc 3.43% on pages 48 and 49.
All the Directors pictured served throughout the year other than Duncan Magrath, who will join the Board on 31 March 2008.
From September 2003, non-executive Directors have been appointed Corporate governance and the Combined Code for specic three year terms, and it is part of the terms of reference of the Overview Nomination Committee to review all appointments of non-executive Directors The Board continues to endorse and apply the principles of good corporate at three year intervals or as near to that as is practicable and make governance reected in the 2006 Combined Code the Code, as appended recommendations to the Board accordingly.
to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors continue to The governance of the Company through the year in the light of the be independent.
principles and supporting principles and provisions of the Code is described Rotation of Directors, election and re-election in the following paragraphs.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 and The Articles of Association of the Company provide that each Director shall save as otherwise explained in the paragraph headed Compliance with the retire from ofce in the third year following the year in which last elected or Code on page 51, the Board believes that the Company was in compliance re-elected, and shall be eligible for re-election.
This year, the only Director to with the provisions of the Code.
He is seeking re-election, being eligible.
In addition, Honorary President Duncan Magrath, who was appointed from 31 March 2008, seeks election for Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been appointed the first time.
to this position in May 2003 following his retirement as Chairman.
Board Committees The Board The main Board Committees, the membership of which is either wholly or The Board currently comprises 10 Directors, of whom seven, including the substantially comprised of non-executive Directors, continue to be the Audit Chairman, are non-executive.
Duncan Magrath was appointed an executive Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Director from 31 March 2008.
Jim Cohen, an executive Director throughout Business Practices Committee.
The Directors believe that the Board The terms of reference of the Board Committees are available on the continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and, with them, the ability Companys website.
to provide effective leadership for the Group.
Our governance 51 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Board, Committee and individual director evaluation individual tender and project review procedures commencing at operating The Board as a whole and its main Committees were the subject of an company level and progressing to Board Committee level if value or evaluation exercise carried out in 2004 by an external consultant.
The actions perceived exposure breaches certain thresholds: agreed which arose from the report were implemented through 2005.
A full regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and evaluation exercise of the Board and its main Committees was carried out in environmental matters: 2007.
While no substantive issues emerged from this, a number of minor procedural matters were identied as meriting attention and these are under the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and capital consideration for implementation during 2008 together with any changes to expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: Board procedures necessitated by the coming into force of the Companies the review of specic material areas of Group-wide risk and the formulation Act 2006. and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: Risk management the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures, The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of risk updated through the free and regular ow of information to address the management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
As for changing risks of the business: previous years the Board has continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes and internal controls during 2007 and to the date of specic policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the financial this report.
Such assessment is based on reports made to the Board, the Audit management of the Group, including arrangements with the Groups bankers Committee and the Business Practices Committee, including: and bond providers, controls on foreign exchange dealings and management of currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital expenditure the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: procedures, application of accounting policies and financial controls: a Group-wide certication that effective internal controls had been a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all functions maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance or breakdown in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
Under it, the key risks had occurred with or without loss, the status of corrective action: and facing each part of the Group are regularly reviewed and assessed, together a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and mitigation with the steps to avoid or mitigate those risks.
The results of those reviews of significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
are placed on risk registers and, where necessary, specic action plans are developed: The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the Groups exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the Board recognises that reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business financial any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the processes and controls and spot checks in areas of perceived high business risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable risk: and and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
not all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal Annual General Meeting control are applied as agreed between the parties to the venture.
Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and Sir David John, who chairs the Nomination and Business Practices Committees, framework for risk management.
These accord with the revised Turnbull Steven Marshall, who chairs the Audit Committee, and Robert Walvis, who Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and up chairs the Remuneration Committee, will be available at the Annual General to the date of signing this report.
Meeting to answer any questions arising from the work of these committees.
The Board continues to regard the Annual General Meeting as an important The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number occasion on which to communicate with shareholders, and research into of different processes, some of which are interlinked.
These include: subjects of likely interest to shareholders is undertaken so that questions can the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating company be answered during the meeting for the benefit of all shareholders present.
and of the Group as a whole in order to identify, inter alia, the risks to the Shareholders may also put questions in advance of the Annual General Meeting Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where appropriate, by writing to the Company Secretary.
The business to be put to the Annual any relevant mitigating actions: General Meeting is set out in the separate circular to shareholders.
monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and Compliance with the Code forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular areas of business or project risk.
This is used to update both managements The Company believes it is compliant with the Code save only in the following understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the respect, namely, that the effectiveness of the Groups whistle-blowing methods used to mitigate and control the risks identied: procedures is reviewed by the Business Practices Committee, and not the Audit Committee.
This is because, based on the Companys experience, the great majority of whistle-blowing type complaints arise out of non-financial matters, mainly employment related.
The Audit Committee is copied with all reports made to the Business Practices Committee on the whistle-blowing procedure and practice.
52 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary remuneration report A resolution to approve the full Directors remuneration report, which can Annual incentive plan be found on pages 16 to 22 of the Directors report and accounts 2007, will be Each executive Director participates in an annual incentive plan, under which proposed at the AGM of the Company to be held on 15 May 2008. predetermined financial targets must be achieved before any payment is earned.
The maximum potential bonus which could have been earned by Remuneration Committee executive Directors for 2007 was 80% of basic salary and the performance indicator chosen was profit before tax and exceptional items profit.
The Remuneration Committee RemCo consists entirely of independent A bonus of 40% of basic salary would have been earned for the achievement non-executive Directors and has been chaired by Robert Walvis since of performance in line with target.
Two-thirds of these bonuses are payable in November 2003.
Its other members are Stephen Howard, Steven Marshall, cash, while the remaining one-third is deferred in the form of ordinary shares in Gordon Sage and Christoph von Rohr.
Sir David John attends meetings by the Company under the Deferred Bonus Plan the DBP.
No member of the RemCo has any personal financial interest, other with shares awarded in lieu of dividends paid during the deferral period, will be than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the RemCo, nor potential released to the Directors after three years, providing they are still employed by conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, and no member of the the Company at that time unless specified leaver conditions are met in which RemCo has any day-to-day involvement in the executive management of case early vesting may be permitted under the rules of the DBP.
It is currently intended that the annual incentive plan for 2008 will operate Executive Directors remuneration in the same way as for 2007 and the RemCo will continue to review the General policy competitiveness and structure of the annual incentive plan in future years.
It is the policy of the RemCo to provide an overall remuneration package that is Long-term incentive scheme competitive and which facilitates the recruitment and retention of high calibre The RemCo believes that performance related long-term incentives which align management.
The annual and long-term incentive plans make up an important executives with both business strategy and shareholders interests are an part of each executive Directors remuneration and are structured so as to important component of overall executive remuneration arrangements.
motivate senior managers to deliver high standards of performance, without The Company operates a Performance Share Plan the Plan under encouraging excessive risk taking.
It is intended that the share-based elements which conditional awards of shares in the Company are made to executive of the package will not only drive performance over the long term but will Directors and other selected operational and functional senior managers.
also assist in aligning the interests of senior management with those The maximum market value of any award, at the award date, will be 150% of shareholders.
of basic salary, other than in exceptional circumstances, where the limit is The structure of executive Directors remuneration was similar in 2007 200% of basic salary.
It is currently the intention of the RemCo that an award to that in 2006 and no significant changes to the existing policy are currently of 150% of salary will only be made to the Chief Executive, with the other envisaged for 2008.
Under the current arrangements, if target performance executive Directors receiving conditional awards over shares with a market is achieved, basic salary will represent around one-half of total earnings.
If maximum is achieved, which would involve a superior level of performance The awards will vest, subject to the achievement of performance substantially in excess of business plan, basic salary will represent around conditions, three years after the date of grant.
It is the intention of the RemCo one-third of total earnings.
to make awards under the Plan in 2008 and that the performance conditions Basic salaries will follow a similar format to those which apply to the award made in 2007.
It is the policy of the RemCo to set basic salaries at levels which it believes For this award there are two performance conditions each applying to separate are competitive given the size and complexity of the Company, as well as the parts of the award.
50% of an award is linked to an adjusted earnings per broad business sectors in which it operates.
The RemCo looks to set basic share growth target and the remaining 50% is linked to total shareholder salaries at around the median of the market, but also takes into account its own return performance relative to a comparator group.
There is no provision for judgement of the performance of the Groups businesses and the performance the re-testing of these performance conditions.
The RemCo intends to continue to use this approach in The RemCo considers that the EPS and TSR performance conditions the foreseeable future.
The basic salaries of executive Directors are reviewed provide a good blend of performance metrics, with EPS growth rewarding annually at 1 July.
strong financial performance and TSR rewarding stock market performance, providing a strong and direct alignment with investors.
Our governance 53 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Pensions Service contracts The executive Directors participate in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund the It remains the Companys policy and practice to include in executive Directors Fund.
This provides for a pension at a normal retirement age of 62 under contracts a 12 month rolling notice period from the Company and six months the Funds rules and each Director pays an annual contribution equal to 5% of notice on the part of the Director.
This policy will continue in the future.
The pension for a Director who can complete 20 or more Service contracts of executive Directors do not include provision for years pensionable service at normal retirement age is targeted at two-thirds specific payment in the event of early termination, nor do they provide for of final pensionable salary, subject to HMRC limits.
If members choose to opt extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.
out of the Fund as a result of their benets reaching or exceeding the Lifetime The RemCo would seek to ensure that the Director fulfils his obligation Allowance, a cash supplement will be payable to them.
A Fund specic to mitigate his losses in the event of termination and would also give earnings cap has been maintained in the Fund for those members who were consideration to phased payments where appropriate.
subject to the HMRC earnings cap and, in line with previous policy, a Non-executive Directors discretionary cash supplement will be paid in lieu of pension provision above Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board following the Fund specic earnings cap.
recommendations from the Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans Share ownership guidelines remuneration falls within the remit of the RemCo and the Board determines To further align the interests of senior management with those of shareholders, the terms on which the services of other non-executive Directors are provided.
executive Directors and other key senior managers are subject to share All non-executive Directors are elected for a term of three years and must retire ownership guidelines.
Executive Directors are required to build up a holding and, if eligible, seek re-election at the AGM in the third calendar year following in ordinary shares in the Company to the value of 100% of their basic salary the year in which they were elected or last re-elected.
They are not eligible to at a reference date.
In order to achieve this, they will be expected to retain join any pension scheme operated by the Company and cannot participate in at least half of the shares after payment of any taxes due which vest from any of the Companys share option, annual incentive or long-term incentive awards made under the Plan and the DBP.
None of the appointment letters for non-executive Directors contain executive Directors shareholding in the Company exceeded this guideline.
provision for specic payment in the event of termination for whatever cause.
Details of the shareholdings of all the Directors can be found in the table The fees of the non-executive Directors are reviewed from time to time with on page 54. the last review having taken effect from 1 July 2006.
Performance graph The graph below shows Balfour Beattys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance compared to the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment companies TSR over the five financial years ended 31 December 2007.
This index has been chosen principally because this is a broad index of which the Company is a constituent member.
The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends from a 100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc and in the index at the start of the period and have been calculated using 30 trading day average values.
Jim Cohen retired from the Company on 18 February 2007. ii Jim Cohen, Anthony Rabin and Ian Tyler received taxable cash supplements in lieu of pension provision on their salary above the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund specic earnings cap.
iii The performance target for annual bonus was profit before tax and exceptional items profit.
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 resulted in a bonus of 80% of basic salary for each executive Director.
Two-thirds of this bonus is payable in cash and these are the amounts shown in the table above.
The remaining one-third will be deferred in the form of ordinary shares in the Company which will be released to the Director on 31 March 2011, providing he is still employed by the Company at that time.
The number of shares comprising the deferred element will be determined based on the share price at the award date of 31 March 2008. iv Awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2004 to Jim Cohen, Anthony Rabin, Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin vested during the year.
At the date of vesting the closing market price was 476p and the value of the shares which vested was 280,516, 275,594, 324,813 and 305,126 respectively.
v Jim Cohen, Anthony Rabin and Peter Zinkin exercised savings-related share options during the year.
The closing market prices on the dates of exercise ranged between 438.5p and 462.75p and the values realisable on exercise were 2,525, 1,603 and 2,888 respectively.
Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of Balfour Beatty plc during the year are set out below.
Number of ordinary shares At At 1 January 31 December Name of Director 2007 2007 M J Donovan 5,000 S L Howard 5,000 Sir David John 5,000 5,000 S Marshall 5,000 5,000 A L P Rabin 101,153 101,728 G H Sage 5,000 5,000 I P Tyler 113,005 133,005 R J W Walvis 10,000 10,000 P J L Zinkin 102,110 122,171 Our summary financial statement 55 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 For the year ended 31 December 2007 Summary Group income statement 2007 2006 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptional items exceptional items items Note 3 Total items Note 3 Total Notes m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 7,488 7,488 5,506 5,506 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 1,022 1,022 1,019 1,019 Group revenue 6,466 6,466 4,487 4,487 Cost of sales 5,959 33 5,992 4,121 4,121 Gross profit 507 33 474 366 366 Net operating expenses amortisation of intangible assets 9 9 1 1 other 381 6 387 286 19 305 Group operating profit 126 48 78 80 20 60 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 65 6 71 48 48 Profit from operations 191 42 149 128 20 108 Investment income 29 29 26 26 Finance costs 19 2 21 18 7 25 Profit before taxation 201 44 157 136 27 109 Taxation 53 65 12 35 1 34 Profit for the year from continuing operations 148 21 169 101 26 75 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 4 2 20 18 16 16 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 150 1 151 117 26 91 and amortisation of intangible assets.
2007 2006 Notes pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share continuing operations 5 39.3 17.6 discontinued operations 5 4.2 3.6 35.1 21.2 Diluted earnings per ordinary share continuing operations 39.0 17.4 discontinued operations 4.2 3.6 34.8 21.0 Dividends per ordinary share proposed for the year 11.5 9.1 For the year ended 31 December 2007 Summary Group statement of recognised income and expense 2007 2006 m m Actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations 2 36 PFI PPP cash ow hedges fair value revaluations 7 32 reclassied and reported in net profit 7 PFI PPP financial assets fair value revaluations 26 2 reclassied and reported in net profit 3 Changes in fair value of net investment hedges 4 14 Currency translation differences 7 17 Tax on items taken directly to equity 5 26 Net expense income recognised directly in equity 19 37 profit for the year from continuing operations 169 75 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 18 16 Total recognised income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 132 128 56 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 At 31 December 2007 Summary Group balance sheet 2007 2006 m m Non-current assets Intangible assets goodwill 694 427 other 59 9 Property, plant and equipment 215 183 Investments in joint ventures and associates 381 458 Investments 57 46 PFI PPP financial assets 62 22 Deferred tax assets 125 102 Derivative financial instruments 3 2 Trade and other receivables 77 50 1,673 1,299 Current assets Inventories 72 75 Due from customers for contract work 338 252 Derivative financial instruments 1 3 Trade and other receivables 881 626 Cash and cash equivalents PFI PPP subsidiaries 3 other 391 323 1,686 1,279 Total assets 3,359 2,578 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,718 1,289 Due to customers for contract work 415 265 Derivative financial instruments 6 1 Current tax liabilities 7 28 Borrowings PFI PPP non-recourse term loans 3 other 16 17 2,165 1,600 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 135 77 Derivative financial instruments 6 Borrowings PFI PPP non-recourse term loans 61 21 other 1 1 Deferred tax liabilities 7 5 Liability component of preference shares 87 90 Retirement benefit obligations 286 288 Provisions 128 109 711 591 Total liabilities 2,876 2,191 Net assets 483 387 Equity Called-up share capital 216 215 Share premium account 52 43 Equity component of preference shares 16 16 Special reserve 164 169 Share of joint ventures and associates reserves 178 243 Other reserves 9 5 Accumulated losses 152 304 Total equity 483 387 The summary financial statement, extracted from the Directors report and accounts, has been approved for issue by the Board and signed on its behalf by A L P Rabin Director 4 March 2008 Our summary financial statement 57 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 For the year ended 31 December 2007 Summary Group cash flow statement 2007 2006 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 281 217 Income taxes paid 24 24 Net cash from operating activities 257 193 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 83 24 Interest received 26 29 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 198 80 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 80 57 Purchase of investments 11 8 Investment in and loans made to joint ventures and associates 50 22 Investment in financial assets 39 12 Disposal of businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed 92 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 9 9 Net cash used in investing activities 168 117 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 5 6 Purchase of ordinary shares 4 3 Proceeds from new loans 42 35 Repayment of loans 1 27 Finance lease principal repayments 1 Buy-back of preference shares 8 19 Ordinary dividends paid 42 52 Interest paid 7 5 Preference dividends paid 11 12 Net cash used in financing activities 26 78 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 63 2 Effects of exchange rate changes 8 6 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 308 316 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 379 308 58 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Notes to the summary financial statement 1 Basis of preparation The summary financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union.
The Groups accounting policies are set out in the Directors report and accounts 2007.
2 Segment analysis continuing operations Building, Civil and building specialist Rail management engineering engineering Corporate and services and services and services Investments costs Total 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 m m m m m m Performance by activity: Results Group revenue 3,527 2,112 775 51 1 6,466 Group operating profit 75 63 43 25 30 126 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 23 1 41 65 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 75 86 44 16 30 191 Exceptional items 26 9 2 33 Amortisation of intangible assets 6 3 9 Profit from operations 43 74 46 16 30 149 North Europe America Other Total 2007 2007 2007 2007 m m m m Performance by geographic origin: Group revenue 4,958 1,471 37 6,466 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 145 18 28 191 Exceptional items 27 6 33 Amortisation of intangible assets 4 5 9 Profit from operations 114 7 28 149 Building, Civil and building specialist Rail management engineering engineering Corporate and services and services and services Investments costs Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 m m m m m m Performance by activity: Results Group revenue 2,030 1,677 766 14 4,487 Group operating profit 42 46 35 19 24 80 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 1 1 3 43 48 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 43 47 38 24 24 128 Exceptional items 21 2 19 Amortisation of intangible assets 1 1 Profit from operations 43 25 40 24 24 108 North Europe America Other Total 2006 2006 2006 2006 m m m m Performance by geographic origin: Group revenue 3,893 572 22 4,487 Profit from operations before exceptional items and amortisation 125 12 15 128 Exceptional items 1 18 19 Amortisation of intangible assets 1 1 Profit from operations 123 30 15 108 Other principally comprises the Groups operations in Hong Kong and Dubai.
Our summary financial statement 59 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 3 Exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets Group Metronet Other Total Group 2007 2007 2007 2006 m m m m Charged against profit before taxation Metronet net contract losses 27 27 North America integration and reorganisation costs 6 6 2 National Engineering and Contracting Company impairment of goodwill 16 Other items 1 Premium on buy-back of preference shares 2 2 7 27 8 35 26 Credited to taxation Tax on items above 9 2 11 1 Recognition of US deferred tax assets 51 51 Credited to charged against profit from continuing operations 18 45 27 25 Charged against credited to profit from discontinued operations Profit on sale of operations 57 57 Metronet impairment of investment 87 87 tax thereon 10 10 Exceptional items credited to charged against profit for the year 95 102 7 25 Amortisation of intangible assets 9 9 1 Tax thereon 3 3 Credited to charged against profit for the year 95 96 1 26 4 Discontinued operations Discontinued operations include the Groups 24.5% interest in Devonport Management Ltd, which was sold on 28 June 2007 and resulted in a profit on sale of operations of 57m, and the Groups 20% interests in Metronet Rail BCV Holdings Ltd and Metronet Rail SSL Holdings Ltd, following the appointment of a PPP Administrator to the concession companies on 18 July 2007, resulting in a 87m impairment of investment, before a tax credit of 10m.
5 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings EPS Earnings EPS Basic Basic Basic Basic 2007 2007 2006 2006 m Pence m Pence Continuing operations 169 39.3 75 17.6 Discontinued operations 18 4.2 16 3.6 151 35.1 91 21.2 Exceptional items 7 1.6 25 5.9 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 6 1.5 1 0.2 Adjusted earnings earnings per ordinary share 150 35.0 117 27.3 The weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic earnings per share was 430.0m 2006: 427.1m.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share, before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets, and including the pre-exceptional results of discontinued operations, has been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Groups underlying trading performance.
6 Post balance sheet events On 11 February 2008, the Group agreed to acquire the military PPP accommodation business of GMH Communities Trust for a cash consideration of approximately US$350m.
The transaction is conditional upon certain US military division, funder and regulatory consents.
60 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Independent auditors statement to the members of Balfour Beatty plc We have examined the Groups summary financial statement for the year Basis of opinion ended 31 December 2007 which comprises the summary Group income We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 statement, the summary Group balance sheet, the summary Group cash flow The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by statement, the summary Group statement of recognised income and the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on expense, the notes to the summary financial statement, the summary the Groups and Companys full annual accounts describes the basis of our Directors report and the summary Directors remuneration report.
audit opinion on those financial statements and on the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in remuneration report.
accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Opinion we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys annual accounts, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we of Balfour Beatty plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and complies have formed.
with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review and summary Deloitte & Touche LLP financial statement in accordance with United Kingdom law.
Our Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the London summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the Directors 4 March 2008 report and the Directors remuneration report, and their compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and summary financial statement as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Summary reports The Annual review and summary financial statement includes a summary of information contained in the Directors report and accounts 2007.
The aim is to provide shareholders with information in a clear and concise manner.
For this reason, the Annual review and summary financial statement does not contain all the information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Company and the Group and their state of affairs.
For further information, the full Annual report and accounts 2007, comprising the Annual review and summary financial statement and the Directors report and accounts containing the Financial review, the Directors report, the Directors remuneration report, the financial statements and the independent auditors report, which is unqualified, should be consulted.
A copy of the Directors report and accounts 2007 may be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary, Balfour Beatty plc, 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ.
It is also available on the Groups website at www.
If you wish to receive the Directors report and accounts in future years you should write to Capita Registrars at the address on the inside back cover.
Design and production: Radley Yeldar London Our accounts Our business Our governance Our summary financial statement 61 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Contents Shareholder information Registrars and transfer office Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT Our business or visit the Mailing Preference Service website at www.
All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to receive Introduction 01 corporate documents by email should, in the first instance, be directed to the Our performance 02 Gifting shares to your family or to charity Companys Registrars and clearly state the shareholders registered address Group overview 04 and, if available, the full shareholder reference number.
Please write to: To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have Chairmans statement 06 Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU a small number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you Chief Executives review 08 Telephone 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus 02 may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift network extras and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Monday Delivering excellent performance and building a sustainable future... 15 registered charity no.
The Balfour Beatty Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Group overview 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA, Telephone: 020 7155 5155 Shareholder information on the internet and The Groups principal areas of Alternatively, a low-cost, execution-only postal share dealing service for the electronic communications activity and expertise.
If you would like more details, please write to: Registered in England Number 395826 Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Balfour Beatty plc Print or online?
com bby investors reports Sustainable Future
