Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. significant accounting policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 3 August 2007. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 42 to 45. b Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, investment properties, other non-current investments and current asset investments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Standards which have been issued and adopted in the year, have had no material impact on the financial statements.
Additional standards have been issued but were not effective during the year and are not expected to have any material effect on the results of the Group These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of IFRSs in issue that are effective at the Groups annual reporting date, 31 March 2007.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for purposes of these consolidated financial statements.
c Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account.
d Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements includes the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant inuence commences until the date that significant inuence ceases.
Page 25 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued e Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
f Income available for distribution Under the Articles of Association of certain Group investment undertakings, realised capital surpluses are not available for distribution as dividends.
g Foreign currency translation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange difference arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
h Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk arising from operational and nancing activities.
As the derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would recover or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the credit worthiness of the swap counterparties.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
i Investment property IFRS defines Investment properties as those which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
External, independent valuation rms having appropriate recognised professional qualications and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, value the portfolio annually at the Companys year end.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The Groups investment properties were valued as set out in note 8 on page 33.
The valuations are prepared either by considering the aggregate of the net annual rent receivable from the properties using a yield which reects the risks inherent in the net cash ow which is then applied to the net annual rents to arrive at the property valuation, or on a sales comparison basis.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement.
When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property, which is measured based on the fair value model.
A property interest under an operating lease is classied and accounted for as an investment property on a property-by-property basis when the Group holds it to earn rentals or for capital Page 26 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2007 appreciation or both.
Any such property interest under an operating lease classied as an investment property is carried at fair value.
When the Group uses only part of a property it owns and retains the remainder to generate rental income or capital appreciation the extent of the Groups utilisation is considered to determine the classication of the property.
If the Groups utilisation is less than five per cent.
this is regarded as immaterial such that the whole property is classied as an investment property and stated at fair value.
Acquisition and disposals are accounted for at the date of completion.
It is Group policy to sell, as individual units, ats in residential blocks which have been held as investment but which are now considered uneconomic to retain.
Occasionally there are sales of residential and commercial investment blocks.
The resulting surplus based on the excess sale proceeds over valuation is included in the Income Statement and taxation applicable thereto is shown as part of the taxation charge.
j Other non-current investments Other non-current investments are classied as available for sale investments and are stated at fair value with any resultant gain or loss recognised through reserves.
k Investment in equity securities Investments held for trading are classied as current assets and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Income Statement.
l Other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
m Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Bank overdrafts have therefore been included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows.
n Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
o Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at their cost.
p Net rental income Net rental income comprises rent and service charges receivable less applicable provisions and costs associated with the properties.
Rental income from investment property leased out under operating leases is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
Service charge income is recognised as the services are provided.
Net rental income is stated net of VAT.
Page 27 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The cost of repairs is written off to the Income Statement in the year in which the expenditure occurred.
Lease payments under operating leases are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
q Dividend income Dividend income is recognised in the Income Statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established which in the case of quoted securities is the ex-dividend date.
r Taxation Corporation tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Corporation tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax liability relates to potential capital gains on the sale of investment properties.
The Group has no intention of making material disposals of its property assets in the foreseeable future and as such no allowance has been made for the effect of indexation.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
s Segment reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services within a particular business segment or geographic location, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
t Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment property see accounting policy i and deferred tax assets see accounting policy r, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated to first reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro rata basis.
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had Page 28 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2007 been recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups investments in held-to-maturity securities and receivables is calculated as the present value of expected future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversal of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a receivable is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
u Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
v Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being loan proceeds less issue costs.
After initial recognition interest bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over their life using the effective rate method.
w Principal accounting estimates and judgements The Groups critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed above.
This note highlights the policy critical to the business based on the level of management judgement required in its application, complexity and potential impact on the results and financial position reported for the Group.
The principal area of judgement is the valuation of properties, see note i.
