Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1. significant accounting policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 3 August 2007. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 42 to 45. b Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, investment properties, other non-current investments and current asset investments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Standards which have been issued and adopted in the year, have had no material impact on the financial statements.
Additional standards have been issued but were not effective during the year and are not expected to have any material effect on the results of the Group These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of IFRSs in issue that are effective at the Groups annual reporting date, 31 March 2007.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for purposes of these consolidated financial statements.
c Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account.
d Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements includes the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant inuence commences until the date that significant inuence ceases.
