Financial statements Financial statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation Jointly controlled operations These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations share of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations controlled operations are accounted for on a direct basis and are endorsed by the European Union EU and with those parts of the included in the consolidated income statement.
The Groups share Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
of its investments assets and liabilities is accounted for on a directly The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost proportional basis in the consolidated balance sheet.
convention as modied by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, derivative financial instruments and share-based payments.
Revenue A summary of the more significant Group accounting policies is set Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the total out below.
proceeds of building and development and an appropriate proportion of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally the stage of completion of contract activity.
The sale proceeds of part accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and exchange houses are not included in revenue.
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although the outcome can be estimated reliably.
Revenue and costs are these estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity the amounts, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of from those estimates.
The most significant estimates made by work performed to date.
Contracts are only treated as construction the Directors in these financial statements are set out in Critical contracts when they have been specically negotiated for the accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
construction of a development or property.
Basis of consolidation Restructuring costs The Group financial statements include the results of the holding The acquisition of Wilson Bowden has led to significant restructuring company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 June.
The Group has classied The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated these as a separate line in the income statement as they are material from the date when control passes to the Group using the purchase and it does not consider them to be a part of trading performance method of accounting and up to the date control ceases.
All but rather an investment in the future of the business.
These costs transactions with subsidiaries and inter-company profits or losses are recognised when the Group has a detailed plan that has been are eliminated on consolidation.
communicated to the affected parties.
A liability is accrued for unsettled restructuring costs.
Business combinations All of the subsidiarys identiable assets and liabilities, including Dividends contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements at the at their fair values.
All changes to those assets and liabilities, time that they are paid, and final dividends are recognised at the time and the resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has of agreement by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
gained control of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
Segmental reporting Following the acquisition of Wilson Bowden, the Group consists Jointly controlled entities of two separate segments for management reporting and control A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds purposes, being housebuilding and commercial development.
The an interest with one or more other parties where a contractual Group manages these segments separately due to the different arrangement has established joint control over the entity.
Jointly operational and commercial risks that they face.
These segments controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method therefore comprise the primary reporting segments within the of accounting.
As all of the Groups operations are within the United Kingdom, which is one economic environment in the context of the Groups activities, there are no geographic segments to be disclosed.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 53 Financial statements | Accounting policies Goodwill Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight line basis over Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the 25 years.
Plant is depreciated on a straight line basis over its fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the separately expected useful life, which ranges from one to seven years.
identiable net assets and liabilities acquired.
Inventories Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
businesses is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for impairment Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour cost and those at least annually.
overheads, which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units of the Group at acquisition.
CashLand held for development, including land in the course of generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested development, is initially recorded at fair value.
Where, through for impairment at least annually.
If the recoverable amount of the deferred purchase credit terms, the fair value differs from the amount cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the that will ultimately be paid in settling the liability, this difference is impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any charged as a finance cost in the income statement over the period of goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit settlement.
Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs and is not subsequently reversed.
to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed Intangible assets internal controls to assess and review carrying values and the Brands appropriateness of estimates made.
Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group has capitalised as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
Leases Acquired brand values are calculated using discounted cash ows.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement in equal Where a brand is considered to have a nite life, it is amortised over instalments over the life of the lease.
its useful life on a straight line basis.
Where a brand is capitalised with an indefinite life, it is not amortised.
The factors that result in Leases as lessor the durability of brands capitalised is that there are no material legal, The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that following the completion of constructed developments until the date limit the useful life of these intangible assets.
of the sale of the development to third parties.
Rental income from these operating leases is recognised in the income statement on The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite life a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs brands by performing a value-in-use calculation, using a discount incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to factor based upon the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised in the income of capital.
statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Investments Share-based payments Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to any provision for impairment.
Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at subsidiary undertakings, by the parent company, they are treated as the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed in the income statement a capital contribution to the subsidiary and the Companys investment on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups in the subsidiary is increased accordingly.
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a straight line basis to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values and asset lives are reviewed annually.
Barratt Developments PLC 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements Financial statements | Accounting policies Tax Financial instruments The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups deferred tax.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The tax currently payable is based on the profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and financial because it excludes items of income or expense that are tax liabilities approximate to fair value.
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated Available for sale financial assets using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by These financial assets are initially recognised at the transaction price, the balance sheet date.
and subsequently measured at each balance sheet date at fair value, with movements in the fair value of the assets being recognised Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that directly in equity.
have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in On disposal of these financial assets the difference between the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the the carrying value and the consideration received including any balance sheet date.
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is included in the income statement.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it Trade receivables can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated differences can be deducted.
Pensions Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in Dened contribution trade receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any The Group operates dened contribution pension schemes for certain foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account for construction employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable against profits in the year in which the contributions are made.
Dened benefit Trade payables The assets of the dened benefit pension scheme are measured at Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are fair value.
The liabilities of the dened benefit pension scheme are stated at amortised cost.
measured on an actuarial basis and discounted to present value.
The net obligation is calculated by a qualied independent actuary and is Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, recognised as a liability in the balance sheet.
are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value, which will be The Group uses a corridor approach when accounting for actuarial paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised over gains and losses.
The corridor used is the greater of: the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the 10% of the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the effective interest rate method.
end of the previous year: or 10% of the fair value of plan assets at the end of the previous year.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade payables.
The amount recognised in the income statement is the excess of unrecognised actuarial gains and losses over the corridor spread over Cash and cash equivalents the expected average working lives of members of the scheme.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash and balances in bank accounts with no notice or less than three months notice The operating and nancing costs of the dened benefit pension from inception.
scheme are recognised in the income statement.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Financial statements | Accounting policies Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where bank agreements include a legal right to offset in hand and overdraft balances, and the Group intends to net settle the outstanding position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position in the balance sheet.
Finance income and charges are accounted for using the effective interest rate method in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments swaps The Group has entered into derivative transactions in the form of swap arrangements to manage the interest rate risk arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as detailed in note 23 to the financial statements.
The swap arrangements are designated as a hedge against changes in future cash ows as a result of interest rate movements.
To the extent that these hedges are effective, gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are taken to reserves until realised.
On realisation such gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
To the extent that any hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are recognised in the income statement.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match with related costs that they are intended to compensate.
Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the asset.
Grants related to income are deducted from the related expense in the income statement.
Barratt Developments PLC 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
