notes to the financial statements of the parent company 1 January 31 December.
Amounts in DKK millions 13. financial risk management and derivatives ISS Holding A Ss financial risk management is based on policies approved by the Board of Directors.
ISS Holding A S may use derivatives to hedge financial risks.
Interest rate risk The interest rate risk is measured by the duration of the net debt.
The duration reflects the effect of a simultaneous increase or decrease in the general level of interest rates for the currencies included in the debt portfolio.
As at 31 December 2007, the duration of net debt was approximately 4.2 years 2006: 4.6 years.
A decrease in interest rates will increase the fair value of the debt but only part of this increase will be reflected in the income statement and equity as long-term borrowings are stated at amortised cost and therefore not adjusted to fair value.
The interest rate swap hedging the floating interest rate is adjusted to fair value and recognised directly in equity.
Based on the net debt and taking into account the effect of hedging instruments as at 31 December 2007, a general decrease increase of one percentage point in relevant interest rates would reduce increase the annual net interest expense by approximately DKK 12 million 2006: DKK 23 million, all other things being equal.
ISS Holding A Ss loan portfolio consists of subordinated notes, senior facility and a second lien facility from 2007.
A part of the interest payments on the second lien have been swapped from floating into fixed rates see note 11, Long-term debt.
To manage the duration of the net debt, ISS Holding A S applies derivatives, such as interest rate swaps.
The deferred gain or loss on the interest rate instruments will be recognised directly in equity, net of tax.
On realisation of the hedged item, value changes recognised under equity are reversed and recognised together with the hedged item.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but the hedged future transactions are still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
Contractual values and unrealised gains and losses are specified below for financial instruments used to hedge the interest rate risk: unrealised Included in Taken directly gain loss on the income to equity on Contractual revaluation statement 31 December value to fair value for 2007 2007 Maturity Interest rate instruments - ISS Holding A S 1 Interest rate swap - 2010 EUR, payer 4,027 55 0 55 2010 financial risk management Please refer to note 31, Financial risk management and derivatives to the consolidated financial statements.
1 The swap converts a major part of the floating rates on the second lien facility to fixed interest rate.
Related party transactions The sole shareholder of ISS Holding A S, ISS Equity A S has controlling influence in ISS Holding A S. The ultimate controlling company of ISS Holding A S is FS Invest S. r. l FS Invest, which is 54% owned by funds advised by EQT Partners and 44% owned by Goldman Sachs Capital Partners.
Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Group Management Apart from remuneration and incentive programmes described below there were no significant transactions with members of the Board of Directors or the Executive Group Management during the year.
Incentive programmes The Principal Shareholders have offered a management participation programme, under which the Executive Group Management and a number of senior officers of the Group were offered to make an investment.
The programme is structured as a combination of direct and indirect investments in a mix of shares and warrants of FS Invest, ISS Holding A Ss ultimate parent.
As of 31 December 2007, the investments amounted to DKK 191 million in total for 139 executives and officers.
Furthermore, as described in note 3, Share-based payments, certain senior officers, were granted warrants in FS Invest of which 532,012 were outstanding as of 31 December 2007. continues pARent CoMpAnY FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 163
