notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Impairment tests 1 The Group performs impairment tests on intangibles annually and whenever there is an indication that intangibles may be impaired.
As described in note 9, Goodwill impairment and write-down, no impairment losses have been recognised in 2007.
An impairment loss of DKK 250 million related to the Finnish business was recognised in 2006.
The Groups intangibles primarily relate to the purchase price allocation following the take-over of ISS A S as at 9 May 2005.
A part of the Groups intangibles relate to acquisitions carried out after the take-over of ISS A S as at 9 May 2005.
Companies acquired after the take-over comprise a diverse portfolio of service types, customer segments, geographical regions, contract sizes and management skills.
Impairment tests are carried out per country as this represents the lowest level of cash-generating units CGU to which the carrying amount of intangibles can be allocated and monitored with any reasonable certainty.
This level of allocation and monitoring of intangibles is in accordance with the monitoring for internal management purposes and should be seen in the light of the Groups strategy to integrate acquired companies as quickly as possible in order to benefit from synergies.
Acquired companies are typically organisationally integrated and merged with or activities transferred to existing Group companies shortly after the completion of the acquisition.
Furthermore, synergies and other effects resulting from cooperation with existing Group companies in their geographical or business area normally influence the financial performance of an acquired company.
Consequently, after a short period of time, it is generally not possible to track and measure the value of intangibles of the individual acquired companies or activities with any reasonable certainty.
As a company based in Europe, the Group assumes the long-term market equity risk premium to be 3.5%.
When performing impairment tests for individual CGUs, the risk premium applied may be higher than the Groups.
When doing acquisitions the Group typically applies a hurdle rate, which is significantly higher than the calculated cost of capital.
2 The carrying amount of intangibles and the key assumptions used in the impairment testing for each CGU representing more than 3% 2006: 5% of the carrying amount of intangibles are presented below.
2 The key assumptions applied in the impairment tests are used for accounting purposes and should not be considered a forward-looking statement within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995 and similar laws in other countries regarding expectations to the future development.
3 Includes customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships.
4 The growth in France is expected to be 4.3% on average over the next eight years.
5 The growth in Finland is expected to be 3.9% on average over the next eight years while the margin is expected to be 7.5% on average over the next four years.
6 The growth in the Netherlands is expected to be 4.0% on average over the next six years.
7 The margin in Denmark is expected to be 6.5% on average over the next three years.
8 The growth in Australia is expected to be 5.5% on average over the next seven years.
9 The growth in Germany is expected to be 3.5% on average over the next three years while the margin is expected to be 4.7% on average over the next eight years.
continues ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 117 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Impairment tests continued Estimates used to measure recoverable amount The recoverable amount of each CGU is determined on the basis of its value-in-use.
The value-in-use is established using certain key assumptions as described below.
The key assumptions are revenue growth, operating margin and discount rates.
value-in-use cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by management covering the following financial year.
The operating margin is based on past performance and expectations for the future market development.
The assumptions applied in the short to medium term are based on managements expectations regarding the development in growth and operating margin.
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the expected long-term average growth rate including inflation for the business in which the CGUs operate.
Uncertainties reflecting historical performance and possible variations in the amount or timing of the future cash flow is reflected in the discount rate.
In determining the country specific discount rates, which are calculated net of tax, a target ratio of 75 25 between the market value of debt and enterprise value is used.
A country specific risk premium has been added to the discount rates to reflect the specific risk associated with each CGU.
The Groups activities in finland The impairment test for ISS Finland has been based on a business plan prepared by management of ISS Finland.
Based on the expectations set out in the business plan an impairment loss of DKK 250 million was incurred as at 31 December 2006.
A turnaround plan for the operations in Finland, which was initiated in 2006, has been successfully implemented and the performance in 2007 has exceeded original expectations.
Given the faster than expected turnaround of the Finnish business, management has updated the business plan slightly.
Applying the performance estimates in the updated business plan with an expected long-term growth rate of 3% from 2016 and an estimated long-term margin of 8.0% from 2012 the test performed as at 31 December 2007 shows no impairment.
Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions in the impairment testing is presented below.
The allowed change represents the percentage points by which the value assigned to the key assumption as applied in the expected long-term rate can change, all other things being equal, before the units recoverable amount equals its carrying amount.
2 The growth in Finland is expected to be 3.9% on average over the next eight years while the margin is expected to be 7.5% on average over the next four years.
3 The growth in the Netherlands is expected to be 4.0% on average over the next six years.
4 The margin in Denmark is expected to be 6.5% on average over the next three years.
5 The growth in Australia is expected to be 5.5% on average over the next seven years.
6 The growth in Germany is expected to be 3.5% on average over the next three years while the margin is expected to be 4.7% on average over the next eight years.. continues 118 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
2 In this context intangibles cover the value of goodwill, brands and customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships resulting from acquisition of companies.
3 The growth in Finland is expected to be 3.3% on average over the next nine years while the margin is expected to be 7.6% on average over the next seven years.
4 The growth in the Netherlands is expected to be 3.2% on average over the next seven years.
ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 119
