notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Related party transactions The sole shareholder of ISS Holding A S, ISS Equity A S, has controlling influence in the Group.
The ultimate controlling company of the Group is FS Invest S. r. l FS Invest, which is 54% owned by funds advised by EQT Partners and 44% owned by Goldman Sachs Capital Partners.
Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Group Management Apart from remuneration and incentive programmes described below there were no significant transactions with members of the Board of Directors or the Executive Group Management during the year.
Incentive programmes The Principal Shareholders have offered a management participation programme, under which the Executive Group Management and a number of senior officers of the Group were offered to make an investment.
The programme is structured as a combination of direct and indirect investments in a mix of shares and warrants of FS Invest, ISS Holding A Ss ultimate parent.
As of 31 December 2007, the investments amounted to DKK 191 million in total for 139 executives and officers.
Furthermore, as described in note 4, Share-based payments, certain senior officers were granted warrants in FS Invest of which 532,012 were outstanding as of 31 December 2007.
Non-executive members of the Board of Directors except representatives of the Principal Shareholders have been offered to participate in a directors participation programme, under which they have invested in a mix of shares and warrants of FS Invest amounting to approximately DKK 6.4 million in total.
In addition they have co-invested with the Principal Shareholders for approximately DKK 17.6 million in total.
Joint ventures and associates Transactions with joint ventures and associates are limited to transactions related to shared service agreements.
There were no significant transactions with joint ventures and associates during the year.
All transactions are made on market terms.
In addition to the above and except for intra-group transactions, which have been eliminated in the consolidated accounts, there were no material transactions with related parties and shareholders during the year.
External directorships and external executive positions of the Groups Board of Directors and Executive Group Management Board of Directors Board Member Executive position Sir Francis Mackay Chairman Carlton Partner LLP BioGreen Limited, Director Graysons Limited, Director Leif stling Scania AB, AB SKF, Svenskt Nringsliv Confederation President and CEO of Scania AB of Swedish Enterprise and Teknikfretagen The Association of Swedish Engineering Industries Ole Andersen BCT Holding, Aleris AB and Dako A S Senior Partner and Head of the Copenhagen office of EQT Partners Sanjay Patel Ahlsell Sverige AB and certain holding companies of Co-head of Private Equity in Europe for the Principal Ahlsell Sverige AB, Endemol N. v. and Get A S Investment Area of Goldman Sachs Christoph Sander Casper Limited and subsidiaries of Casper Limited Co-founder and CEO of Casper Limited Steven Sher Ahlsell Sverige AB, Edam Acquisitions B. v. and certain Managing Director, Goldman Sachs International, holding companies of Ahlsell Sverige AB and Endemol N. v. Principal Investment Area Peter Korsholm alternate BTX Group A S Partner at EQT Partners Executive Group Management Jrgen Lindegaard Efsen Engineering A S None Jeff Gravenhorst None None continues 140 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS
