notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements of ISS Holding A S as of and revenue recognition and determination of deferred income for the year ended 31 December 2007, comprise ISS Holding A S and the valuation of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabiliits subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups ties in connection with the acquisition of subsidiaries operations interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
the impairment testing of goodwill, brands, customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships, and any other acquiStatement of compliance sition related intangible assets The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordthe actuarial calculations regarding pension benefits ance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the valuation of provisions other than pension benefits adopted by the EU being effective for accounting periods beginning the assessment of ongoing litigations and the valuation of continon 1 January 2007, and the statutory order on the adoption of IFRS gent liabilities issued pursuant to the Danish Financial Statements Act.
the valuation of tax assets and bad debt provisions.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by all entities of the Group to all periods presented in these consoliThe estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ondated financial statements.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revisions affect only Basis of preparation that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the revision affects both current and future periods.
historical cost basis, as modified by the revaluation of available-forsale financial assets, and financial assets and liabilities including Basis of consolidation derivative financial instruments at fair value through the income Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include ISS statement.
Holding A S and all subsidiaries in which ISS Holding A S, directly or indirectly, holds more than 50% of the voting rights or otherwise has Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are a controlling interest.
measured at the lower of the carrying amount before the changed classification and fair value less costs to sell.
The consolidated financial statements are based on the financial statements of ISS Holding A S and the individual subsidiaries by adding Changes in accounting policies items of a similar nature.
The Group has with effect from 1 January 2007 implemented IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 1 revised 2005, PresentaAssociates Entities, which are not regarded as subsidiaries, but in tion of Financial Statements and IAS 32 revised 2005, Financial which the Group holds investments and exercises a significant, but Instruments: Presentation.
These standards have impacted the disnot a controlling influence are regarded as associates.
The proporclosures given in the notes but it has not impacted the recognition tionate share of the associates profit or loss after tax is recognised and measurement and consequently the accounting policies are unin the income statement in the consolidated financial statements in changed compared to last year.
The comparative figures in the notes accordance with the equity method.
Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are Critical accounting estimates and judgements regarded as joint ventures and recognised in the consolidated finanThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS recial statements by including the Groups proportionate share of the quires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions entities assets, liabilities, income and expenses on a line-by-line basis that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets with items of a similar nature.
and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, any unrealised gains and losses on income and expenses arising from the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about intra-group transactions are eliminated when preparing the concarrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent solidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transfrom other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
actions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated The Group believes the following are the areas involving critical to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses accounting estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the consolidated financial statements: extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
continues ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 91 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations Acquired entities are included in the conTransactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional solidated financial statements as from the date when control comcurrency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Entities that are divested or wound-up are included until the tary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the date where control ceases or the entity is wound-up.
Comparative exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary figures are not restated for entities acquired, divested or wound-up.
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date Acquisitions are treated in accordance with the purchase method, of transaction.
under which identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired entities are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value The income statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into at the date of acquisition.
Identifiable intangible assets are recogDanish kroner using the average exchange rates prevailing during nised if separable or if they arise from contractual or other legal the year, whereas balance sheet items are translated by applying the rights, provided that the fair value can be measured reliably.
Tax exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
impact related to fair value adjustments is taken into account.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Excess cost of acquisition over the fair value of acquired assets, liaforeign entity having a functional currency different from Danish bilities and contingent liabilities is capitalised as goodwill.
Goodkroner are treated as assets and liabilities belonging to the foreign will is allocated to cash-generating units and tested for impairment entity and translated into Danish kroner at the exchange rates ruling annually.
The first impairment test is prepared no later than at the at the balance sheet date.
end of the year of acquisition.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses are included in If the initial accounting for a business combination can be determined the income statement under Net finance costs, except gains losses only provisionally by the end of the period in which the combination arising from the translation of: is effected, adjustments made within twelve months of the acquisition date to the provisional fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and conthe opening balances of net assets of foreign subsidiaries joint tingent liabilities or cost of the acquisition, are adjusted to the initial ventures and investments in associates to exchange rates ruling at goodwill.
The adjustment is calculated as if it was recognised at the the balance sheet date acquisition date.
Subsequent to this the income statements of foreign subsidiaries joint ventures and period, goodwill is only adjusted for changes in estimates of the cost the share of result from associates from average exchange rates to of the acquisition being contingent on future events.
However, subseexchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date quent realisation of deferred tax assets not recognised on acquisition long-term intra-group balances which are considered an addition will result in the recognition in the income statement of the tax beneto the net assets of subsidiaries joint ventures fit concurrently with a write-down of the carrying amount of goodwill loans in foreign currency and derivatives hedging net investments to the amount that would have been recognised if the deferred tax in foreign subsidiaries joint ventures.
asset had been recognised at the time of the acquisition.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses related to the Gains or losses on the divestment or winding-up of subsidiaries or assotranslation of the above four groups of transactions are taken directciates are measured as the difference between the sales or windingly to equity.
The related tax impact is taken into account.
up sum adjusted for directly related divestment or winding-up costs and the carrying amount of the net assets at the time of disposal or Income statement winding-up including any carrying value of goodwill.
"Accumulated presentation The income statement is presented in accordance with exchange rate adjustments on divested or wound-up subsidiaries or the ""nature of expense"" method: Goodwill impairment and writeassociates recognised in equity are included in the income statement down and Amortisation of brands and customer contracts as well under Net finance costs at the time of divestment or wind-up."
as the Income tax effect hereof are presented in separate line items after Operating profit.
This income statement presentation more foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each appropriately reflects the Groups profitability as it is seen to fairly of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the pripresent the financial performance of the Groups activities.
mary economic environment in which the entity operates functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Revenue comprises the value of services provided during the year Danish kroner, which is the functional and presentation currency of less vAT and duties as well as price and quantity discounts.
Revenue ISS Holding A S. is recognised when it is realised or realisable and earned.
Revenue is continues 92 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies continued considered to have been earned when the Group has substantially vesting period.
Adjustments relating to prior years are included in accomplished what it must do to be entitled to the revenue.
Contract the income statement in the year of adjustment.
work in progress is recognised using the  method based on the value of work completed at the balance sheet Operating leases Operating lease costs are recognised in the income date.
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The obligation for the remaining lease period is disclosed in the notes In assessing whether revenue should be reported on a gross or a net under Contingent liabilities.
basis i. e. net of related costs, the Group considers whether it: i is the primary obligor in the arrangement: ii has the general inventory risk: Other income and expenses, net consists of income and expenses, iii has latitude in establishing price: iv changes the product or perboth recurring and non-recurring, that the Group does not consider forms part of the service: v has discretion in supplier selection: vi is to be part of normal ordinary operations, such as gains and losses involved in the determination of product or service specifications: vii arising from divestments, the winding-up of operations, disposals of has physical loss inventory risk: or viii carries the credit risk.
If these property, restructurings and certain acquisition related costs.
assumptions are fulfilled revenue is reported on a gross basis.
Integration costs includes costs regarding the acquiring Group comGovernment grants Grants that compensate the Group for expenses pany and the acquired company that are a consequence of the inteincurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis gration.
Integration costs include costs of compensating employees in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that for termination of their employment, closing facilities, and terminacompensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the tion of subscriptions and agreements.
income statement on a systematic basis over the useful lifetime of the asset.
Share of result from associates comprises the share of result after tax in associates.
Operating expenses Staff costs comprises salaries and wages, pensions, social security expenses and other employee related expenses.
Net finance costs comprises interest payable on borrowings calcuCost of sales comprises material consumption related to the related using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable corded revenue.
Other operating expenses includes expenses related on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses, and gains and to the operation of service equipment and other non-current assets, losses on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
external assistance as well as other selling, distribution and administrative expenses, including expenses related to marketing, transIncome taxes consists of income tax and changes in deferred tax.
portation, operating leases, subcontractors, audit, legal assistance, Deferred tax is recognised based on the balance sheet liability method losses and loss provisions on receivables etc.
and comprises all temporary differences between accounting and tax values of assets and liabilities.
Furthermore, a deferred tax liability Depreciation and amortisation includes depreciation and amortisais recognised for expected re-taxation of tax-deductible losses reation of intangible and tangible assets excluding Goodwill impairment lised in foreign subsidiaries previously included under Danish joint and write-down and Amortisation of brands and customer contracts, taxation.
which are presented in separate line items after Profit before goodwill impairment amortisation of brands and customer contracts.
Where the tax base can be calculated using different tax regulations, deferred tax is measured based on the planned use of the asset or Share-based compensation The fair value of equity-settled sharethe unwinding of the liability, as applicable.
based compensation plans, is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is fixed at grant date Deferred tax is computed based on the tax rate expected to apply and allocated over the vesting period.
The fair value of the options when the temporary differences are balanced out.
No deferred tax and warrants granted is measured using the Black-Scholes valuaprovisions are made for undistributed profits of subsidiaries and tion method taking the terms and conditions upon which they were goodwill not deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets, ingranted into account.
Non-market vesting conditions are included cluding the tax value of losses carried forward, are recognised at the in the assumptions applied for the number of options and warrants value at which they are expected to be applied either by eliminating that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, tax on future earnings or by setting off deferred tax liabilities within the Group revises this estimate.
The Group recognises the impact the same legal tax unit and jurisdiction.
of the revision of the original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining The recognised income tax is allocated to Income taxes, Tax effect continues ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 93 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies continued of goodwill impairment and write-down and amortisation of brands Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and marketable securities, and customer contracts and Equity, as applicable.
with maturity of less than three months that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant ISS Holding A S is jointly taxed with all Danish resident affiliates.
The risk of changes in value.
Danish income tax payable is allocated between the jointly taxed Danish companies based on their proportion of taxable income full absorpBalance sheet tion including reimbursement of tax deficits.
The jointly taxed comBusiness combinations are accounted for using the purchase method panies are included in the Danish tax on account scheme.
Additions, as described under Basis of consolidation.
deductions and allowances are recognised under Net finance costs.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment and write-down includes impairment losses Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units.
The determination arising from impairment tests as well as write-down of goodwill in of cash-generating units follows the level of monitoring for interconnection with divestments.
This is generally equal to country level.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an Amortisation of brands and customer contracts includes amortisaindication that goodwill may be impaired.
tion of acquired brands and acquired customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships, impairment losses arising from An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of impairment tests and write-down in connection with divestments.
a cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is calculated as the greater of net selling price and value Income tax effect of Goodwill impairment and write-down and Amin use.
In assessing value in use the estimated future cash flows ortisation of brands and customer contracts is presented in a sepaare discounted to their present value.
An impairment loss is not rerate line item in connection with these two line items.
Cash flow statement Brands Acquisition related brands are recognised at fair value at the The cash flow statement shows the Groups cash flows for the pedate of acquisition.
Subsequently, acquired brands with indefinite riod stemming from operating, investing and financing activities, useful lives are measured at historical cost less any accumulated the change in its cash position during the year as well as the Groups impairment losses while acquired brands with finite useful lives cash position at the beginning and the end of the year.
are measured at historical cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a The cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect method based straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the brand, which on Operating profit before other items.
is usually in the range 2-5 years.
The liquidity effect of acquisitions and divestments of businesses is The valuation of acquired brands is based on a discounted cash shown separately under Cash flow from investing activities.
The cash flow model using the after-tax royalty payments the royalty relief flow statement includes cash flows from acquired entities from the method.
Cash flows are discounted on an after tax basis using the date of acquisition and cash flows from divested entities until the local Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC plus a risk premium date of divestment.
for the assumed risk inherent in the brand.
Cash flow from operating activities comprises Operating profit beThe net present value of the cash flow is increased with an estimated fore other items adjusted for non-cash items, changes in working portion of the discounted tax amortisation benefit applicable for capital and provisions and payments regarding income taxes, other a potential buyer based on the local tax amortisation opportunity income and expenses and integration costs.
available for brand names when bought as a trade and asset purchase.
The tax amortisation benefit is discounted.
This increased Cash flow from investing activities comprises cash flow from acquivalue of the brand equals the fair value at the date of acquisition.
sition and divestment of businesses as well as the purchase and sale of non-current assets.
A deferred tax liability is calculated at the local tax rate on the difference between the book value and the tax value.
The initial recogCash flow from financing activities comprises proceeds from and nition of this deferred tax liability increases the amount of goodwill.
repayment of loans, interest, dividends, proceeds from share issues, purchase and sale of treasury shares, cash flow related to derivatives The value of brands is tested for impairment as part of the impairhedging net investments and dividends to Minority interests.
continues 94 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies continued Customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships asset if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied Acquisition related customer contract portfolios and related custowith the item will flow to the Group.
The remaining carrying amount mer relationships are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisiof the replaced item is fide-recognised in the balance sheet and transtion and subsequently carried at cost less accumulated amortisation ferred to the income statement.
All other costs for common repairs and any accumulated impairment losses.
The value is amortised based and maintenance are recognised in the income statement as and on the churn rate of the acquired portfolio using the declining bawhen incurred.
This churn rate is calculated on a contract by contract basis and has historically averaged approximately 12% to 13% annuWhen measuring the value of software developed for internal use, ally.
In certain cases the value of customer contracts is amortised external costs to consultants and software as well as internal direct on a straight line basis based on the legal duration of the acquired and indirect costs related to the development are capitalised.
development costs for which it cannot be rendered probable that future economic benefit will flow to the Group are recognised in the The valuation of customer contract portfolios and related customer income statement as and when incurred.
relationships is based on a discounted cash flow model using an estimated split of the acquired revenue in business segments and the Amortisation and depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis related churn rates and profitability of the revenue at the time of the over the expected useful lives of the assets taking into account the acquisition.
A contributory asset charge as a cost or return requireestimated residual value.
The amortisation and depreciation methods, ment for assets supporting the intangible asset has been included in useful lives and residual values are reassessed annually.
Cash flows are discounted on an after tax basis using the local Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC plus a risk premium Non-current assets Expected useful life for the assumed risk inherent in customer contract portfolios and Software and other intangible assets 5-10 years related customer relationships.
Buildings 20-40 years Leasehold improvements Over the lease term The net present value of the cash flow is increased with an estimated Plant and equipment 3-10 years portion of the discounted tax amortisation benefit applicable for If the estimated useful lives of the assets or the estimated residual a potential buyer based on the local tax amortisation opportunity value is changed the impact on the amortisation and depreciation is available for customer contract portfolios and customer relationrecognised prospectively.
ships when bought as a trade and asset purchase.
This increased value of customer contract Gains and losses arising on the disposal or retirement of non-current portfolios and related customer relationships equals the fair value at assets are measured as the difference between the selling price less the date of acquisition.
direct sales costs and the net carrying amount, and are recognised in the income statement under Other operating expenses in the year of A deferred tax liability is calculated at the local tax rate on the difsale, except gains and losses arising on disposals of property, which ference between the book value and the tax value.
The initial recogare recognised under Other income and expenses, net.
nition of this deferred tax liability increases the amount of goodwill.
leased assets Assets held under finance leases are at inception of The value of customer contract portfolios and related customer relathe agreement measured in the balance sheet at the lower of the tionships is tested for impairment as part of the impairment test.
fair value and the present value of future lease payments.
When calculating the present value, the interest rate implicit in the lease Software and other intangible assets and property, plant and equipor an approximated rate is applied as the discount rate.
Assets held ment are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation, depreciaunder finance leases are depreciated in accordance with the policy tion, impairment loss and write-down.
for non-current assets acquired by the Group.
Cost of assets includes cost price as well as costs directly attributable financial assets Investments in associates are measured in accordto bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to ance with the equity method.
Associates with a negative net asset be capable of operating in the manner intended.
To the cost price is value are stated at zero, and amounts owed to the Group by such added the estimated cost of dismantling and removing the item and associates are written down by the Groups share of the negative net restoring the site on which it is located to the extent that this cost is asset value to the extent it is considered uncollectible.
Should the recognised as a provision.
negative net asset value exceed the receivable, the residual amount is recognised under provisions to the extent the Group has a legal or Subsequent costs of replacing part of an item are recognised as an constructive obligation to cover the negative balance.
continues ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 95 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies continued Costs related to tenders for public offers for PPP Public Private Partdifference between the proceeds initially received and the nominal nership PFI Private Finance Initiative contracts are recognised in value is recognised in the income statement over the loan period.
the income statement as incurred.
If the Group is awarded status as preferred bidder, directly attributable costs and investments from Defined benefit plans Net obligations in respect of defined benefit that date, if any, are recognised under Financial assets.
For PPP PFI pension plans are calculated separately for each plan by estimating contracts awarded, the costs are amortised over the term of the the amount of future benefits that employees have earned in recontract.
If the Group is not awarded the contract, all costs are recogturn for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit nised in the income statement.
is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
Discount rates are based on the market Investments in PFI contracts are classified as available-for-sale and yield of high quality corporate bonds or government bonds in the are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date, with any resulcountry concerned with a maturity approximating to the terms of ting gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
When these the Groups pension obligations.
The calculations are performed by a investments are fide-recognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously qualified actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
When the recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit The fair value is the quoted bid price at the balance sheet date.
relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average Inventories Raw materials and supplies are measured at the lower period until the benefits vest.
To the extent that the benefits vest of cost under the FIFO principle and net realisable value.
Finished immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income goods and Work in progress are measured at the lower of cost plus statement.
Net pension assets are only recognised to the extent that attributable overheads and net realisable value.
The cost price of the Group is able to derive future economic benefits in the way of raw materials and supplies includes the purchase price plus costs refunds from the plan or reductions of future contributions.
directly related to the purchase.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs of completion and selling costs.
Any actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Receivables are measured at amortised cost less a provision for doubtOther long-term employee benefits The Groups net obligation in ful debts based on an individual assessment.
Provisions and realised respect of long-term employee benefits other than pension plans losses during the year are recognised under Other operating expenses.
is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The benefit is Contract work in progress is measured at the sales value of the prodiscounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any portion of work completed at the balance sheet date.
The sales value related assets is deducted.
Discount rates are based on the market is calculated based on the stage of completion and the total amount yield of high quality corporate bonds or government bonds in the expected to be received for each individual contract.
Progress country concerned with a maturity approximating to the terms of the billings related to the completed proportion of work to be performed Groups obligations.
The calculations are performed by a qualified are deducted from the recognised value, while progress billings actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
exceeding the completed proportion of work to be performed are recognised as Prepayments from customers under Current liabilities.
Any actuarial gains and losses are recognised under Staff costs in the income statement.
Securities which are designated as fair value through the income statement are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date, with Other provisions comprise obligations concerning labour related any resulting gains or losses recognised directly in the income statematters, self-insurance, integration costs related to acquisitions, disment.
mantling costs, and various other operational issues.
The provisions are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligaTreasury shares Proceeds related to the acquisition or disposal of tion as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of treasury shares are taken directly to equity.
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are declared.
Derivatives are measured at fair value calculated according to generally accepted valuation methods and are recognised in Other financial liabilities are initially measured at the value of the proreceivables or Other liabilities.
ceeds received less related transaction costs.
Subsequently, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, equal to the capitalised For derivatives hedging the fair value of recognised assets and liabilivalue when applying a constant effective rate of interest, and the ties the value of the hedged asset or hedged liability is also stated continues 96 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies continued at fair value in respect of the risk being hedged.
When a hedging New standards and interpretations not yet adopted IASB has pubinstrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but the hedged lished the following new standards and amendments to existing asset or hedged liability with a determinable maturity still exist, the standards that are not mandatory for the preparation of the conadjustment recorded as part of the carrying amount of the hedged solidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 item is amortised to the income statement from that date onwards December 2007. using the effective interest method.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments on disclosures on operating segments The effective part of the changes in the fair value of derivatives hedgis effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January ing future transactions is recognised directly in equity, net of tax.
This standard does not have any impact on recognition and realisation of the hedged item, value changes recognised under equity measurement but only the presentation and note disclosures.
are reversed and recognised together with the hedged item.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs on the accounting treatment of the hedged future transactions are still expected to occur, the cumuborrowing costs is effective for annual periods beginning on or lative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in after 1 January 2009.
As the Group has very few qualifying assets, accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
the Revised IAS 23 is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Derivatives that qualify as net investment hedges of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are recognised directly in equity, net of tax.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements are effective for annual periods beginning on For derivatives, which do not comply with the hedge accounting or after 1 July 2009.
The potential effect is not yet known.
conditions, changes in fair value are recognised as Net finance costs in the income statement as they occur.
The following interpretations IFRIC have been published but are not mandatory for the preparation of the consolidated financial Non-current assets held for sale Assets are classified as held for sale statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007. when the carrying amount of the assets are expected to primarily be recovered through a sale within 12 months rather than through IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions is effeccontinuing use.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the tive for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
The assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting Group already accounts for intra-group transactions relating to policies.
Thereafter, assets held for sale are recognised at the lower share-based payments in accordance with the principles described of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets held for in IFRIC 11. sale are not amortised or depreciated.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in the income statement.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective for annual The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
The Group has no Assets and related liabilities are separated in the balance sheet and the and does not expect to obtain any concessions subject to IFRIC 12. main elements are specified in the notes to the financial statements.
Consequently, IFRIC 12 is not expected to have any impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Discontinued operations comprises a component of the Groups business that represent a separate major line of business or geographical IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes is effective for annual area of which the operations and cash flows can be clearly distinperiods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group has no guished, i. e. as a minimum a cash-generating unit.
Classification as and does not expect to enter into any customer loyalty programmes discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation with customers subject to IFRIC 13.
Consequently, IFRIC 13 is not meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
The profit or loss is expected to have any impact on the consolidated financial stateseparated in the income statement, assets and related liabilities are ments of the Group.
separated in the balance sheet, and the cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities are disclosed in the notes to the IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum financial statements.
When an operation is classified as discontinued Funding Requirements and their Interaction is effective for annual operation, the comparative income statement is re-presented as if periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
The potential effect the operation had been discontinued from the beginning of the of the interpretation is not yet known.
The Group expects to implement these IFRSs and IFRICs from the mandatory effective date.
ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 97
