notes to the financial statements of the parent company 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies Statement of compliance General The financial statements of ISS Holding A S have been prepared in foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency are translated at accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets as adopted by the EU being effective for accounting periods beginand liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate ning on 1 January 2007 and the statutory order on the adoption of ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities IFRS issued pursuant to the Danish Financial Statements Act.
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses are included in the income statement under Net finance costs.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Income statement basis, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial Operating expenses Staff costs comprises salaries, social security exassets, and financial assets and liabilities including derivative finanpenses and other employee related expenses to Executive Managecial instruments at fair value through the income statement.
Other operating expenses include expenses related to administrative expenses, including audit and legal assistance etc.
Changes in accounting policies ISS Holding A S has with effect from 1 January 2007 implemented Share-based compensation The fair value of equity settled shareIFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 1 revised 2005, based compensation plans, is recognised as an expense with a corPresentation of Financial Statements and IAS 32 revised 2005, responding increase in equity.
The fair value is fixed at grant date Financial Instruments: Presentation.
These standards have impactand allocated over the vesting period.
The fair value of the options ed the disclosures given in the notes but it has not impacted the recand warrants granted is measured using the Black-Scholes valuaognition and measurement and consequently the accounting polition method taking the terms and conditions upon which they were cies are unchanged compared to last year.
The comparative figures granted into account.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in the notes have been adjusted accordingly.
in the assumptions about the number of options and warrants that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, ISS Critical accounting estimates and judgements Holding A S revises this estimate.
ISS Holding A S recognises the imThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS repact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, in the income quires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the rethat affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets maining vesting period.
Adjustments relating to prior years are inand liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated cluded in the income statement in the year of adjustment.
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, Income from subsidiary comprises dividends declared in the year the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about and gains and losses from divestment of subsidiaries.
If dividends carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent declared exceed the accumulated profit since take-over, the dividend from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
is not recognised in the income statement but instead recognised as ISS Holding A S believes the following are the areas involving critical a write-down in the cost of the investment.
accounting estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the financial statements: Net finance costs comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on the assessment of ongoing litigation and the valuation of continfunds invested and foreign exchange gains and losses.
gent liabilities the valuation of tax assets and Income taxes consist of income tax and changes in deferred tax.
ferred tax is recognised based on the balance sheet liability method and comprises all temporary differences between accounting and The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ontax values of assets and liabilities.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revisions affect only Where the tax base can be calculated using different tax regulations, that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the deferred tax is measured based on the planned use of the asset or revision affects both current and future periods.
the unwinding of the liability, as applicable.
continues pARent CoMpAnY FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 153
