notes to the financial statements of the parent company 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies Statement of compliance General The financial statements of ISS Holding A S have been prepared in foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency are translated at accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets as adopted by the EU being effective for accounting periods beginand liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate ning on 1 January 2007 and the statutory order on the adoption of ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities IFRS issued pursuant to the Danish Financial Statements Act.
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Realised and unrealised exchange gains and losses are included in the income statement under Net finance costs.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Income statement basis, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial Operating expenses Staff costs comprises salaries, social security exassets, and financial assets and liabilities including derivative finanpenses and other employee related expenses to Executive Managecial instruments at fair value through the income statement.
Other operating expenses include expenses related to administrative expenses, including audit and legal assistance etc.
Changes in accounting policies ISS Holding A S has with effect from 1 January 2007 implemented Share-based compensation The fair value of equity settled shareIFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 1 revised 2005, based compensation plans, is recognised as an expense with a corPresentation of Financial Statements and IAS 32 revised 2005, responding increase in equity.
The fair value is fixed at grant date Financial Instruments: Presentation.
These standards have impactand allocated over the vesting period.
The fair value of the options ed the disclosures given in the notes but it has not impacted the recand warrants granted is measured using the Black-Scholes valuaognition and measurement and consequently the accounting polition method taking the terms and conditions upon which they were cies are unchanged compared to last year.
The comparative figures granted into account.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in the notes have been adjusted accordingly.
in the assumptions about the number of options and warrants that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, ISS Critical accounting estimates and judgements Holding A S revises this estimate.
ISS Holding A S recognises the imThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS repact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, in the income quires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the rethat affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets maining vesting period.
Adjustments relating to prior years are inand liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated cluded in the income statement in the year of adjustment.
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, Income from subsidiary comprises dividends declared in the year the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about and gains and losses from divestment of subsidiaries.
If dividends carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent declared exceed the accumulated profit since take-over, the dividend from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
is not recognised in the income statement but instead recognised as ISS Holding A S believes the following are the areas involving critical a write-down in the cost of the investment.
accounting estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the financial statements: Net finance costs comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on the assessment of ongoing litigation and the valuation of continfunds invested and foreign exchange gains and losses.
gent liabilities the valuation of tax assets and Income taxes consist of income tax and changes in deferred tax.
ferred tax is recognised based on the balance sheet liability method and comprises all temporary differences between accounting and The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ontax values of assets and liabilities.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revisions affect only Where the tax base can be calculated using different tax regulations, that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the deferred tax is measured based on the planned use of the asset or revision affects both current and future periods.
the unwinding of the liability, as applicable.
continues pARent CoMpAnY FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 153 notes to the financial statements of the parent company 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is computed based on the tax rate expected to apply Balance sheet when the temporary differences are balanced out.
No deferred tax financial assets Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at cost.
provisions are made for undistributed profits of subsidiaries and Investments are written down to the recoverable amount if this is goodwill not deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets, inexceeded by the cost.
Cost is written down to the extent that the cluding the tax value of losses carried forward, are recognised at the dividends declared exceed the accumulated profit since take-over.
value at which they are expected to be applied either by eliminating tax on future earnings or by setting off deferred tax liabilities within Receivables are measured at amortised cost less a provision for doubtful the same legal tax unit and jurisdiction.
debts based on an individual assessment.
Provisions and realised losses during the year are recognised under Other operating expenses.
The recognised income tax is allocated to Income taxes and Equity, as applicable.
Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are declared.
ISS Holding A S is jointly taxed with all Danish resident affiliates.
The financial liabilities are initially measured at the value of the proDanish income tax payable is allocated between the jointly taxed Danceeds received less related transaction costs.
Subsequently, financial ish companies based on their proportion of taxable income full absorpliabilities are measured at amortised cost, equal to the capitalised tion including reimbursement of tax deficits.
The jointly taxed comvalue when applying a constant effective rate of interest, and the panies are included in the Danish tax on account scheme.
Additions, difference between the proceeds initially received and the nominal deductions and allowances are recognised under Net finance costs.
value is recognised in the income statement over the loan period.
Cash flow statement Derivatives are measured at fair value calculated according to genThe cash flow statement shows ISS Holding A Ss cash flows for the erally accepted valuation methods and recognised in Other receivperiod stemming from operating, investing and financing activities, ables or Other liabilities.
the change in cash position during the year as well as ISS Holding A Ss cash position at the beginning and the end of the year.
For derivatives hedging the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities the value of the hedged asset or hedged liability is also stated The cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect method based at fair value in respect of the risk being hedged.
When a hedging on Operating loss.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but the hedged asset or hedged liability with a determinable maturity still exist, the Cash flow from operating activities comprises Operating loss adadjustment recorded as part of the carrying amount of the hedged justed for non-cash items, changes in working capital and income item is amortised to the income statement from that date onwards taxes.
using the effective interest method.
Cash flow from investing activities comprises investments in or sale The effective part of the changes in the fair value of derivatives hedgof subsidiaries and cash flow from purchase and sale of non-current ing future transactions is recognised directly in equity, net of tax.
realisation of the hedged item, value changes recognised under equity are reversed and recognised together with the hedged item.
When Cash flow from financing activities comprises proceeds from and a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised but repayment of loans, payments regarding interest, dividends and prothe hedged future transactions are still expected to occur, the cumuceeds from share issues.
lative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and marketable securities, with maturity of less than three months that are readily convertible For derivatives, which do not comply with the hedge accounting to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant conditions, changes in fair value are recognised as Net finance costs risk of changes in value.
in the income statement as they occur.
154 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | pARent CoMpAnY FInAnCIAL StAteMentS
