notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 January 31 December.
Significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements of ISS Holding A S as of and revenue recognition and determination of deferred income for the year ended 31 December 2007, comprise ISS Holding A S and the valuation of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabiliits subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups ties in connection with the acquisition of subsidiaries operations interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
the impairment testing of goodwill, brands, customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships, and any other acquiStatement of compliance sition related intangible assets The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordthe actuarial calculations regarding pension benefits ance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the valuation of provisions other than pension benefits adopted by the EU being effective for accounting periods beginning the assessment of ongoing litigations and the valuation of continon 1 January 2007, and the statutory order on the adoption of IFRS gent liabilities issued pursuant to the Danish Financial Statements Act.
the valuation of tax assets and bad debt provisions.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by all entities of the Group to all periods presented in these consoliThe estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ondated financial statements.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revisions affect only Basis of preparation that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the revision affects both current and future periods.
historical cost basis, as modified by the revaluation of available-forsale financial assets, and financial assets and liabilities including Basis of consolidation derivative financial instruments at fair value through the income Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include ISS statement.
Holding A S and all subsidiaries in which ISS Holding A S, directly or indirectly, holds more than 50% of the voting rights or otherwise has Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are a controlling interest.
measured at the lower of the carrying amount before the changed classification and fair value less costs to sell.
The consolidated financial statements are based on the financial statements of ISS Holding A S and the individual subsidiaries by adding Changes in accounting policies items of a similar nature.
The Group has with effect from 1 January 2007 implemented IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 1 revised 2005, PresentaAssociates Entities, which are not regarded as subsidiaries, but in tion of Financial Statements and IAS 32 revised 2005, Financial which the Group holds investments and exercises a significant, but Instruments: Presentation.
These standards have impacted the disnot a controlling influence are regarded as associates.
The proporclosures given in the notes but it has not impacted the recognition tionate share of the associates profit or loss after tax is recognised and measurement and consequently the accounting policies are unin the income statement in the consolidated financial statements in changed compared to last year.
The comparative figures in the notes accordance with the equity method.
Joint ventures The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are Critical accounting estimates and judgements regarded as joint ventures and recognised in the consolidated finanThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS recial statements by including the Groups proportionate share of the quires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions entities assets, liabilities, income and expenses on a line-by-line basis that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets with items of a similar nature.
and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, any unrealised gains and losses on income and expenses arising from the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about intra-group transactions are eliminated when preparing the concarrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent solidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transfrom other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
actions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated The Group believes the following are the areas involving critical to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses accounting estimates and judgements used in the preparation of the are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the consolidated financial statements: extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
continues ConSoLIdAted FInAnCIAL StAteMentS | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 91
