USEFUL INFORMATION 150 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 glossary of terms Property Assured periodic tenancy APT Market-rented tenancy arising from succession from regulated.
Tenant has security of tenure.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Market-rented tenancy where landlord may obtain possession if appropriate notice served.
Assured tenancy AT Market-rented tenancy where tenant has right to renew.
Investment value IV or market value Open market value of a property subject to relevant tenancies in place.
Home reversion Rent free tenancy where tenant has right of occupation until possession is forfeited usually on death.
If tenant retains an equity interest in the property this is a partial home reversion.
Regulated tenancy Tenancy regulated under 1977 Rent Act, rent usually sub market set by rent officer and tenant has security of tenure.
Vacant possession value VP Open market value of a property free from any tenancies.
Corporate Grainger NAV NNNAV adjusted for the after tax value of the reversionary surplus in our regulated and equity release portfolios discounted back to present value using our risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital over the expected average period of realisation.
Base case and sensitivities exist.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Mandatory for UK listed companies for accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2005.
USEFUL INFORMATION 151 Financial Cap Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the interest rate on a loan.
Contingent tax The amount of tax that would be payable on the difference between the carrying value of trading properties as recorded in the balance sheet and their market value.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share.
Earnings per share EPS profit attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year.
Gearing The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, to the market net asset value.
Goodwill On acquisition of a company, the difference between the fair value of net assets acquired and the purchase price paid.
Grainger NAV NNNAV adjusted for the taxed discounted reversionary surplus on regulated and home reversion portfolios.
Gross net asset value Gross NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of property assets held as stock, and adding back deferred tax and before adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
Hedging The use of financial instruments to protect against interest rate movements.
IAS 39 Accounting standard containing complex rules for the recognition of the market value of long-term debt and financial instruments.
Interest cover profit on ordinary activities before interest and tax divided by net interest payable.
Loan to value LTV Ratio of net debt to the market value of properties.
Net net asset value triple net or NNNAV Gross NAV adjusted for tax liabilities which would accrue if assets sold at market value and for the market value of long-term debt and derivatives.
Return on capital employed Growth in NNNAV plus dividends paid per share as a percentage of opening NNNAV.
Return on shareholders equity profit before nancing costs plus all revaluation surpluses as a percentage of opening gross capital.
Swap Financial instrument to protect against interest rate movements.
Total shareholder return TSR Return attributable to shareholders on basis of share price growth with dividends reinvested.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC The weighted average cost of funding the groups activities through a combination of shareholders funds and debt.
USEFUL INFORMATION 152 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate addresses Newcastle Putney Luxembourg Citygate 1st Floor 9 Parc dActivite Syrdall St James Boulevard SW15H Building L-5365 Munsbach Newcastle upon Tyne 73-75 Upper Richmond Road Luxembourg NE1 4JE London Germany Tel: 0191 261 1819 SW15 2SR D-68161 Mannheim London Manchester Germany 161 Brompton Road St Johns House Willy-Brandt-Platz 3 London Barrington Road Malta SW3 1QP Altrincham Suite 1, 17 Tel: 020 7795 4700 Cheshire Sir A Bartolo Street WA14 1TJ Birmingham Ta Xbiex The Circle Exeter Malta Harborne Lower Ground Floor Ireland Birmingham 4 Barneld Crescent 57 Herbert Lane B17 9DY Southernhay Dublin 2 Exeter Ipswich Ireland EX1 1RF 42a Barrack Square Martlesham Heath Ipswich Suffolk IP5 3RF www.
co. uk Printed in the UK by MPG impressions, Environmental Management System ISO 14001 accredited and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certified.
This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks and approximately 96% of the waste associated with this product will be recycled.
The Cover is printed on Go Velvet which uses pulp that is bleached using the ECF Elemental Chlorine Free process and is recyclable, compostable or biodegradable.
It is manufactured at a paper mill that is certified to ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
The text of this report is produced on Revive 50:50 Silk which is produced with 50% recycled fibre from both preand post-consumer sources, together with 50% ECF fibre and Revive 100 uncoated which is produced from 100% post-consumer reclaimed material.
Both are from sustainable forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Designed and produced by corporateedge.
com GRAINGER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 www.
co. uk ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
