Events after the balance sheet date DirectorsReport Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 29 to the onsolidated  Financial Statements.
Group results and dividends Change in share capital The results for the year ended 1 December 2007 are shown in the onsolidated hanges in share capital are shown in note 22 to the onsolidated Financial Income Statement on page 58.
The directors recommend the payment of a Statements.
That note also contains a summary of the rights attaching to each class final ordinary share dividend for 2007 of 5.
5p net per share on 2 May 2008 to of shares and details of the number of ordinary shares held in employee benefit shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 April 2008, which trusts.
The ompany was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% of its existing together with the interim dividend paid on 2 November 2007 makes a total ordinary share capital at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
The authority will expire of 7.6p net per ordinary share for the year 2006: 8.5p.
at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in April 2008 unless renewed.
Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the Acquisitions and disposals forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of the resolution renewing the 1 Acquisitions authority to purchase ordinary shares are included with the Notice of Annual 1.1 On 2 February 2007, the Group purchased the assets of ommercial Aviation General Meeting enclosed with this Report.
Products for an immediate cash consideration of $5.7 million 2.9 million and a deferred contingent cash consideration of up to $.
Substantial shareholdings The ompany has been notified, as at 27 February 2008, under the provisions of the 1.2 On 19 July 2007, the Group purchased Executive Beechcraft, Inc for an Disclosure and Transparency Rules that came into force on 20 January 2007, of the immediate cash consideration of $75.9 million 7.4 million and a deferred following interests in the voting rights of the ompany: cash consideration of $2.5 million 1. million.
On 27 July 2007, the Group acquired Marathon Flight Services for an Aviva plc 7.97 immediate cash consideration of $5.4 million 2.6 million, and a deferred Standard Life Investments 7.05 cash consideration of $0.6 million 0. million.
Prudential plc 6.5 1.4 On 1 August 2007, Signature Flight Support Athens S. A. purchased A&T Schroders plc 4.96 Aviation Services business for an immediate cash consideration of 0.6 million Legal & General Group plc 4.02 0.4 million.
The business provides ground handling services in the general Barclays Global Investors.
22 aviation market at Makedonia Airport, Greece.
Research and development 1.5 On 27 September 2007, the Group purchased the assets of arolina Air enter The Group continues to devote considerable effort and resources to research and of Hilton Head, Inc. for an immediate cash consideration of $16.7 million development of new processes and products.
osts are charged against income 8.2 million.
1.6 On 9 November 2007, the Group announced the acquisition of Regent Aviation Market value of land and buildings based in St. Paul Minnesota for $50.
Regent Aviation The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the Groups properties has operations at St. Paul Downtown Airport and Rochester International are not substantially different from the values included in the Groups financial Airport in Rochester Minnesota.
2 Disposals Financial risk management and treasury policies 2.1 On 6 February 2007, the Group completed the sale of the Signature Flight The financial risk management and treasury policies of the Group are set out on page Support orporation facility at Oxnard Municipal Airport, Oxnard, alifornia 7 and in notes 17 and 18 to the onsolidated Financial Statements.
to Golden West Air Terminals, Inc.
Note: no cash changed hands on this sale except for fuel inventory on hand.
2.2 On 19 June 2007, the Group entered into a sale agreement to dispose of Oxford Aviation Training for a consideration of 2.0 million.
The disposal was completed on 29 June 2007, on which date control of Oxford Aviation Training passed to the acquirer.
On 19 July 2007, the Group completed the sale of Oxford Aviation Services Limited, trading as Oxford Airport, to OA Acquisitions Limited for a debt free cash free consideration of 9.1 million.
The consideration relating to the various acquisitions and disposals stated above reflects exchange rates at the date of announcement of the relevant transaction.
40 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Board of directors Suppliers payment policy The current directors of the ompany at the date of this report appear on The ompany and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when pages 8 and 9.
They held office throughout the financial year under review agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of with the exception of Hansel Tookes who was appointed to the Board on the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of the payment.
19 February 2007 and Simon Pryce who was appointed to the Board on 11 June 2007.
Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting The ompanys Annual General Meeting will be held on 0 April 2008.
Directors interests in shares Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting.
As well as Remuneration Report.
more routine matters such as the renewal of authority to allot shares, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares, resolutions are being proposed Directors Indemnities to adopt new Articles of Association to update the ompanys current Articles On 2 July 2007 the ompany entered into a deed of indemnity in favour of Simon primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by Pryce and on 22 August 2007 the ompany entered into a deed of indemnity in the ompanies Act 2006.
The resolutions are explained in a letter from the favour of Hansel Tookes under which the ompany agreed to indemnify each hairman which accompanies the Notice.
director against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office.
The Charitable and political donations ompany had entered into deeds of indemnity in 2006 in favour of each of its then Group donations to charities worldwide were 95,000 2006: 22, 800 with UK directors and on 19 November 2007 these and the deed in favour of Simon Pryce charities receiving 17,500 2006: 6,000.
No donations were made to any political were amended so that all the deeds of indemnity in favour of the ompanys party in either year.
current directors are in identical terms.
In addition the ompany has entered into an indemnity deed poll in substantially similar terms dated 19 March 2007 in favour Auditors of members of the Executive Management ommittee and other members of As required by section 2 4ZA of the ompanies Act 1985, each of the directors, senior management.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors they are at the date of the approval of this report, confirms that: qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 09B of the a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which ompanies Act 1985 or section 2 4 of the ompanies Act 2006, as applicable.
the ompanys auditors are unaware: and At the date of this report, these indemnities are therefore in force for the b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to benefit of all the current directors of the ompany and other members of make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the senior management.
ompanys auditors are aware of that information.
On 1 November 2007 a subsidiary of the ompany, BBA Aviation Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 2 4 Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted in accordance of the ompanies Act 2006 in favour of its directors under which each director with section 2 4ZA of the ompanies Act 1985. is indemnified against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the ompany omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
office and such provisions remain in force as at the date of this report.
Directors Report approved by the Board on 27 February 2008 and signed on its Agreements behalf by: Under s992 of the ompanies Act 2006 the ompany discloses that in the event of a change of control in the ompany i its $900m revolving credit facility Andrew Wood dated 7 September 2007 and certain industrial revenue bonds in the amount of Group Finance Director $44.0 million currently guaranteed by the ompany could become repayable and ii certain authorisations issued to the ERO business to carry out certain works on the authorising OEMs engines could become terminable by the relevant OEM OEMs include Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney anada and Honeywell.
Under s992 of the ompanies Act 2006 the ompany also discloses in addition to the clause in Simon Pryces contract referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 49 and the potential release of shares awarded to Simon Pryce referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 50 an amendment to an employment agreement between a subsidiary company and Greg Murrer entered into in February 2000 and an amendment to an employment agreement between a subsidiary company and Sarah Shaw entered into in March 2000, both of which have provisions such that in certain circumstances relating to a change of control of the ompany they could receive compensation upon early termination of up to two years remuneration, based on basic salary, bonus, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period.
Employees There are various opportunities to provide employees with information on matters of concern to them and to improve employees awareness of the financial and economic factors that affect the performance of the ompany.
These include all hands briefings, staff forums and meetings with trade unions that take place throughout the year.
Further details about our philosophy in this area are set out on page 4.
41 The schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Matters outside Directors Report the scope of this formal schedule are decided by management in accordance with Directors Corporate Governance Report delegated authorities approved by the Board and Audit Committee.
The Boards policies and procedures are set out in a Directors File which is 1 Compliance provided to all directors on appointment and which is updated routinely.
2 The Boards Role 3 The Board and Independence 3.
The Board and Independence 4 Chairman and Group Chief Executive At the date of this report, the Board comprises a chairman, four other non-executive 5 Board Appointments directors and three executive directors who contribute a wide range of 6 Information and Professional Development complementary skills and experience.
A short biography of each current director is 7 Performance Evaluation set out on page 39.
8 Board Committees 9 Audit and Accountability Changes during the Year a.
Financial reporting During the year, Roberto Quarta stepped down from his position as non-executive b.
Audit Committee Chairman of the Company and on 17 January 2007 Michael Harper was appointed c. Systems of Internal Control to the temporary position of Executive Chairman.
As reported in last years Annual 10 Shareholder Relations Report, the Board considered alternative arrangements at the time of Michael Harpers appointment as Executive Chairman and concluded that the Companys 1.
Compliance interests were best served by the appointment, which had the support of its major The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate governance are shareholders.
Michael Harper became non-executive Chairman on the appointment maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
of Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive on 11 June 2007.
Simon Pryce will be The Company applies the principles of corporate governance set out in Section 1 seeking election at the forthcoming AGM.
of the revised Combined Code issued in June 2006 through its own behaviour, by David Rough retired from the Board at the AGM on 26 April 2007 and Bob monitoring corporate governance best practice and by adopting appropriate Phillips retired from the Board at the expiry of his term of appointment on recommendations of relevant bodies.
On David Roughs retirement as non-executive director, John Roques The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2007 with the provisions set succeeded him as the Boards Senior Independent Director and he is available to out in Section 1 of the Combined Code except as follows: the roles of Chairman shareholders if they have concerns which normal channels of contact with the and Group Chief Executive were held by the same individual for a period in 2007 Board would not resolve or for which such channels would be inappropriate.
John which is explained further in paragraph 3 on this page and paragraph 4 on page Roques appointment as a non-executive director was renewed with effect from 43 : there was not a majority of independent non-executive directors on the 11 January 2008 for a further term until the conclusion of the AGM to be held in Nomination Committee for two short periods when there were no meetings of the 2009.
Mark Harper who was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2006 took Committee which is explained further in paragraph 8b on page 44 and bonuses on the role of Remuneration Committee Chairman on David Roughs retirement and benefits in kind for an executive director based in the US are historically and is also CSR Responsible Director.
pensionable which is explained further in the Directors Remuneration Report Nick Land who was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2006 assumed on page 56. the chairmanship of the Audit Committee from John Roques on 1 March 2007.
The auditors report concerning the Companys compliance with the Combined On 19 February 2007 Hansel Tookes was appointed to the Board.
The Board has determined that all its non-executive directors including John Roques, who was appointed to the Board in January 1999 are independent in 2.
The Boards Role character and judgement.
The Board believes that Michael Harper was also The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success of the Company.
independent in character and judgement on appointment as Chairman although Its role includes providing effective leadership and setting the Groups strategic he was temporarily Executive Chairman in 2007 and interim CEO for much of 2006 aims.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate and is of the view that he has demonstrated his independence throughout his controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
It is responsible for reviewing period of office.
managements performance and oversees senior level succession planning within At the forthcoming AGM Mark Harper, Nick Land and Andrew Wood retire by the Group.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys values and standards, rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles and John Roques having served ensuring the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
on the Board for more than nine years retires in accordance with the provisions of There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2007 which were attended by the Combined Code and each intends to seek re-election at that time.
The Board all the directors, other than the February meeting which Bob Phillips was not able believes that each of Mark Harper, Nick Land and John Roques should be re-elected to attend and the April meeting for which David Rough gave his apologies.
These by shareholders as a non-executive director because, as evidenced by Board meetings focus on strategy, financial and business performance.
Additional performance evaluations, each continues to be effective and demonstrate meetings were called as required to deal with specific matters.
The Board agenda commitment to his role.
The Board believes that each of them will continue to do so.
is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Group Chief Executive, the Group The Board fully reviewed the renewal of John Roques appointment in the light of Finance Director and the Group Secretary.
the Boards performance evaluations and additional Board discussion took place.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision including The Board particularly values the continuity of experience which John Roques has approval of matters such as: provided during a period of substantial change in Board membership and which strategy and objectives he continues to provide as the Company moves into its second year as a business Group policies focused on aviation services.
annual budgets dividends acquisitions and disposals of businesses expenditure over a certain limit financial results appointments to the Board 42 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 During the year the Chairman met the other non-executive directors without the The Board has a written framework for the induction of new directors.
This includes attendance of the executive directors and there was a formal meeting of the Senior site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers and the provision of Independent Director and non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
A personal induction programme is prepared for each There were several other occasions during the year when discussions between new director tailored to the experience and needs of the individual.
New directors various directors took place on an informal basis.
are available to meet major shareholders on request.
Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board before Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for an initial accepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.
Executive directors term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory provisions and may retain the fees from any such directorship.
During the period to 30 June 2007 continued satisfactory performance of duties following the Boards annual Michael Harper was paid the following fees from non-executive directorships to performance evaluation.
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic but which he had been appointed prior to his appointment as Group Chief Executive may be made by mutual agreement.
In addition, it is the Companys practice that and subsequently Executive Chairman of the Company: Catlin Group Limited all directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive involved in deciding his own remuneration or fees.
Letters of appointment for On the appointment of Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive on 11 June 2007 the non-executive directors are available for inspection by shareholders at each Michael Harper stood down from his temporary role of Executive Chairman and AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
resumed his position as a non-executive director.
During the period between 17 January 2007 and 11 June 2007, while Michael Harper was Executive Chairman, 6.
Information and Professional Development there was no division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive accurate, Executive.
Since 11 June 2007 there has again been a clear division of responsibilities timely and clear information with Board and Committee papers being circulated between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
This is reinforced by a written in advance of the meeting.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of statement of the division of responsibilities between the two positions which has corporate governance and relevant regulatory developments as they arise and been reviewed and approved by the Board.
Michael Harper as Chairman is primarily receive appropriate briefings.
For example, in 2007 the Board was updated on responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He is responsible relevant aspects of the new UK Companies Act 2006 whilst the Audit Committee for setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors receive information in an is routinely briefed on accounting and technical matters by senior management accurate, clear and timely manner.
He is responsible for promoting effective and the external auditors.
decision-making, ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees and In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintained regular contact individual directors are evaluated on an annual basis and that appropriate Board during the year with other directors to discuss specific issues.
Opportunities exist training and development occurs.
Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive is throughout the year for informal contact between Board members and with members responsible for the development and implementation of Board strategy and policy, of the senior management team and site visits are arranged for Board members.
the running of the Groups business, ensuring that the business strategy and The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its current directors, activities are effectively communicated and promoted within and outside the the identification of individual development needs is best left to the individual business and for building positive relationships with the Companys stakeholders.
If any such needs became evident through the annual performance evaluation, the director would be encouraged to pursue the necessary 5.
The Company will provide the necessary resources for developing The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and progressive refreshing of and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
It believes that the necessary arrangements to manage succession issues All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary promptly and effectively are in place.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors wishing to do so the appointment of new directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the delegated to the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process is initiated by Companys expense.
the Board and a selection procedure established to identify suitable external search The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions consultants for the vacancy.
The process differs in its detail depending on whether against its directors.
The Company has also entered into indemnities with its the appointment is for an executive or non-executive position, but the essentials directors as described on page 41 of this Directors Report.
Following the appointment of a suitable external consultant, details of the role and capabilities required for the appointment are prepared.
Performance Evaluation The consultant then draws up a list of potential candidates and a shortlist is created In the autumn of 2007 the Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior Independent through consultation amongst Nomination Committee members.
The Board Director, led the performance evaluation and appraisal process for the Board and as a whole is also regularly updated as to the status of the appointment process.
The Chairman discussed with each director individually their Meetings as appropriate are arranged with Committee members and the replies to a questionnaire they had previously completed concerning the Board, Committee aims to ensure that each Board member is given the opportunity to its Committees and their operation: any other concerns they had and their own meet the short-listed candidates.
The Nomination Committee will then meet to performance.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director, in consultation with the finalise a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
A similar other non-executive directors and taking into account the views of the executive process was carried out during 2007 for the appointment of Hansel Tookes and directors, reviewed the performance of the Chairman and the performance Simon Pryce.
This process was also used for the appointment of Michael Harper evaluation and appraisal process as a whole.
Overall the conclusion from the Board as a non-executive director in 2005, when he was considered a potential successor evaluation and appraisal process was positive, with each individual director to the position of Chairman in due course, and in the circumstances at the time of contributing actively to the effective performance of the Board and the Committees his appointment as Chairman in 2007 the use of external search consultants was of which he is a member.
The Board considered the outcomes of the evaluation at not thought appropriate.
its November meeting and agreed a number of action points, including a more formally scheduled Board training programme and a more structured timetable of presentations from each of the businesses within the Group, and set itself objectives relating to strategy, succession planning, management development training and corporate social responsibility to be achieved in the course of 2008.
Nomination Committee Directors Report Composition Directors Corporate Governance Report The composition of the Nomination Committee during 2007 is set out in the table below.
The Nomination Committee comprised three non-executive directors and 8.
Board Committees two executive directors for most of the year, apart from two short periods when the The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee and Committee had a membership of two non-executive directors and two executive an Audit Committee.
Written terms of reference for each Committee are available directors.
The Committee did not meet during the periods when there was not a on request and are posted on the Companys website.
majority of independent non-executive directors on the Committee.
During Year a. Remuneration Committee 01 01 07 Resigned Appointed 31 12 07 27 02 08 Composition Roberto Quarta 17 01 07 During 2007 the Remuneration Committee comprised those non-executive Michael Harper directors set out in the table below.
Apart from Hansel Tookes and Michael Harper, Simon Pryce 11 06 07 these directors were on the Committee at the time of determining remuneration Andrew Wood for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Michael Harper was not a member of the Nick Land 17 01 07 Committee while he was employed by the Company in an executive capacity.
The John Roques 17 01 07 members of the Remuneration Committee concluded after discussion that Michael as Chairman 27 04 07 Harper had been independent in character and judgement on his appointment as Chairman and therefore that it was appropriate for him to become a member of the David Rough 26 04 07 Remuneration Committee after he became a non-executive Chairman.
as Chairman 17 01 07 During Year Other directors may attend Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
01 01 07 Resigned Appointed 31 12 07 27 02 08 The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During 2007 the Committee Mark Harper met formally on three occasions with attendance by all Committee members.
as Chairman 27 04 07 This was supplemented with numerous individual briefings and meetings between Michael Harper 01 07 07 Committee members.
Nick Land Bob Phillips 05 05 07 Role John Roques The principal role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on David Rough 26 04 07 the appointment of the Companys executive and non-executive directors.
It is Hansel Tookes 19 02 07 responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies.
In making appointments, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge During 2007 the Remuneration Committee met on seven occasions.
These and experience on the Board and in the light of this evaluation considers the meetings were attended by all Committee members save for Bob Phillips in capabilities required for the role and, in the case of a non-executive appointment, February.
Executive directors and the Group HR Director may attend these the time available to fulfil the role.
Use is made of independent search consultants meetings by invitation.
and the final appointment rests with the full Board.
More information on the role of the Nomination Committee is set out in Board Appointments above.
Role Details regarding the Audit Committee are set out in paragraph 9b on page 45.
The Committee has two principal functions: first, making recommendations to the Board on the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of executive directors and other designated senior executives and second, determining on behalf of the Board the specific remuneration package for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for discussing and agreeing a compensation policy for the Group.
In conjunction with the Group Chief Executive and Group HR Director, the Committee is tasked with developing a broad compensation framework for senior management and for reviewing the remuneration for certain senior executives.
The specific application of this policy and framework to each senior executive is the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Audit and Accountability Going Concern a.
Financial Reporting In compliance with corporate governance requirements, the directors consider Statement of directors responsibilities that after a critical review of the Groups 2008 budget and medium-term plans The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have law and regulations.
been prepared on a going concern basis.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group b.
Audit Committee financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Composition adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required During 2007 the Audit Committee comprised the independent non-executive by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and directors as set out in the following table.
The Chairman of the Committee until Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
1 March 2007, John Roques, and the replacement in that role with effect from International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements 1 March 2007, Nick Land, each have relevant and recent financial experience and present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial a professional accountancy qualification as required by the Smith Guidance.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects In addition the other Committee members all have experience of corporate of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and financial matters.
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the During Year International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and 01 01 07 Resigned Appointed 31 12 07 27 02 08 presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation Nick Land will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting as Chairman 01 03 07 Standards.
However, directors are also required to: Mark Harper properly select and apply accounting policies: Bob Phillips 05 05 07 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides John Roques relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and as Chairman 01 03 07 p rovide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements David Rough 26 04 07 in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and During 2007 the Audit Committee met on four occasions, generally coinciding with financial performance.
key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
There was full attendance by all the Committee members except that Bob Phillips was unable to attend the February The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United meeting and David Rough the April meeting.
The external auditors and Head of Group Internal Audit regularly attend these meetings.
The Chairman, Group Chief Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller also generally join at least part of Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee Chairman the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: may call a meeting at the request of any director or the Companys external auditors.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Role The Committee may consider any matter that might have a financial impact on to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
However, its primary role is: first, reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and the internal audit work programme: and second, reviewing the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and annual and half yearly reports before they are presented to the Board.
In addition, the Committee reviews twice yearly reports on the Groups key business risks.
enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The Committee assesses compliance with the directors responsibility statement.
The Committee also reviews the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee is responsible The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the for making recommendations to the Board regarding the remuneration and appointment of its external auditors.
It is the policy of the Audit Committee to United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
review such appointment at least every five years and a review was completed this year.
The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review of A procedure is in place to enable the directors to provide the confirmation regarding audit information required under section 234ZA of the Companies written reports circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports and any other matters with the relevant auditors and management.
This confirmation is set out on page 41 of the Directors Report Additional Disclosures.
a year the Audit Committee holds a confidential session without management present with the Head of Group Internal Audit and with the external auditors.
45 The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by the directors and Directors Report accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October Directors Corporate Governance Report 2005: Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness business objectives.
It can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against Central to the Audit Committees work is the review and monitoring of the external material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, taking account of auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee carried out a formal audit service assessment in respect The key features of the Groups internal control system are listed below.
of work carried out during the year including a review of audit plans and the qualifications, expertise, resources, effectiveness and independence of the external 1.
During 2007 the Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director and auditors.
The Audit Committee has also carried out a detailed performance comprising senior executives, met twice to review and analyse how business evaluation and believes that it has satisfied the requirements of the Combined Code risks are being managed.
These reviews assessed the following categories and the Smith Guidance.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that during the year of risk: it had formal and transparent arrangements for considering financial reporting and business: internal control principles and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the financial: external auditors.
compliance: and A key safeguard to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is the operational and other including health, safety and environmental.
Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by its external auditors.
Central to this process was a detailed written self-assessment of risks by This policy is reviewed annually.
It prohibits the Groups external auditors from company and division and functional risk assessments, each carried out by the carrying out certain additional services for the Group including book-keeping, responsible executive.
These were reviewed by the internal audit department internal audit, valuations, actuarial services and financial systems design and and the Risk Committee.
Any significant control issues arising between implementation.
Services which the external auditors may be permitted to carry meetings can be brought to the attention of senior executives at regularly out include assurance services such as reporting accountant work and tax scheduled meetings of the Executive Management Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the majority of the tax services supplied the outcome of the work of the Risk Committee was reported to the Audit by Deloitte & Touche LLP are compliance-related and represent a small proportion Committee, which in turn reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of Group tax fees.
of internal control on behalf of the Board.
The Audit Committee agreed a As a matter of principle, the Companys policy is not to use the external auditors modification of this process in the last quarter of 2007 and going forward into for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers it 2008.
The detailed written self-assessment of risks by company, division and appropriate or conflicts arise, suppliers other than the preferred supplier may be function are now plotted on risk maps, with both the assessments and risk asked to tender.
Only in exceptional and unusual circumstances will this include the maps being reviewed by the internal audit department and by senior external auditors.
management at quarterly operating review meetings held with each business.
The Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve certain permitted services, The outcome from these reviews will be discussed twice each year at meetings which may exceed set financial limits.
Non-audit fees paid or due to the external of the Executive Management Committee which has replaced the Risk auditors are regularly reviewed by the Committee.
The first such review by the Executive Management Committee Deloitte & Touche LLP have confirmed that all non-audit services they took place in January 2008, with the results being presented to the Audit performed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and would not Committee in February.
In 2008 the Audit Committee will continue to receive a impair their independence or objectivity.
On the basis of their own review of the report at least twice a year from the Group Finance Director detailing the work services performed, the requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, undertaken in managing the risks faced by the Group.
Based on these reviews the Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte and reports, the Board recommends action to be taken by the Group at both & Touche LLP do not impair their independence and objectivity.
divisional and company levels to mitigate identified risks and take advantage of opportunities that may add value to the Group.
c. Systems of Internal Control Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its 2.
An organisation structure is in place at both head office and divisional level effectiveness rests with the directors.
Management is accountable to the directors which clearly defines responsibilities for operational, accounting, taxation, for monitoring this system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has treasury, legal, company secretarial and insurance functions.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing process embedded in the Groups businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 3.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based reviews of risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Group controls and business processes.
The role of internal audit is defined in a Group considers that it has adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and Internal Audit Charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards opportunities affecting its long and short-term value.
which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and its reporting This process has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2007 and up processes.
The Audit Committee receives a report from internal audit at each to 27 February 2008 and the directors can therefore confirm that they have reviewed meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of the effectiveness in accordance with the internal control requirements of the controls by site, a summary of key issues, work schedules and details of any Combined Code throughout that period.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Audit Committee regularly monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit utilising outside specialists and self-assessment techniques.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and financial controls 10.
Shareholder Relations applicable to all reporting units.
The Group accounting policies are aligned The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate governance with the latest International Accounting Standards and International Financial developments and the views of BBA Aviations major shareholders.
achieved in 2007 through regular meetings during the year between the Group Chief Executive or the Executive Chairman during the first half of 2007, the Finance 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for each of the Director and major shareholders, which are then reported to the Board as a whole.
The Board also receives formal written reports from its brokers regarding the views of its principal shareholders following its preliminary and interim results 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to management which announcements and at other times as appropriate.
All non-executive directors, measure actual performance against budget, together with forecasts of sales, including the Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major profits and operating cash for the next three months and to the end of the year.
The Board considers that its non-executive directors, including A monthly report is provided to the Board highlighting key issues and its current Senior Independent Director, John Roques, have a good level of summarising the detailed financial information provided by the operating units.
understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, as required by the Combined Code.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, authorisation levels A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers requiring the approval of major projects by the Group directors and by postand analysts takes place each year.
The directors seek to encourage a continuing investment appraisals.
The Company maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders about directors remuneration in the same way as for other matters.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency and commodity AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
It is intended hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
that notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Michael Harper as Chairman of the Board, 9.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior John Roques as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Senior Independent executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital Director, Nick Land as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Mark Harper as expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and treasury matters.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and CSR Responsible Director will each This matrix is authorised by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board be available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
Shareholders are given and is reviewed on an annual basis.
Compliance with the authority matrix the opportunity of voting separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures for, against, at discretion and vote withheld on each resolution.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are approved by the Board.
also made available on request and on the Companys website.
The results of the AGM are also announced to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures regarding the Directors Corporate Governance Report approved by the Board on following: business ethics, business gifts and gratuities, equal opportunities, 27 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by: competition law, legal policy, external communications and share dealing.
A bi-annual review of compliance with such policies by Group companies Andrew Wood is carried out and senior executives are also required to confirm annual Group Finance Director compliance with certain policies.
Group policies are complemented by divisional and company-led initiatives, including community policies, and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy which includes a 24 hour hotline available to all employees, supported by a formal investigation protocol and regular reporting to the Audit Committee.
A Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details policies, standards and procedures which are applicable throughout the Group.
Further details about Health and Safety and environmental matters are set out on page 35 under Corporate Social Responsibility and on our website.
Annual selfassessments are carried out at company level against Group standards.
The most recent monthly report on environmental and safety matters is reviewed at each meeting of the Executive Management Committee and the Board also receives regular reports on HSE matters.
These reports cover all Group companies and are prepared by the internal Group HSE function, with some assistance from external specialists.
Senior managers performance and related financial incentives are tied in part to their success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Report The Groups remuneration policy is to ensure that executive directors and other senior executives remuneration properly reflects their duties and responsibilities and is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior management This report covers the remuneration policy for directors and includes specific capable collectively of delivering the goals of the Company.
The Committee disclosures relating to directors emoluments, their shares and other interests.
It has recognises the need to remain competitive in the different geographic areas in been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, as which the Company operates.
The Committee believes that the remuneration amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, and the Listing arrangements described below remain closely aligned to the creation of shareholder Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This report is being put to shareholders at value and to the business strategy of BBA Aviation.
The Committee has also taken the forthcoming AGM for an advisory vote.
As noted on page 42 in the Directors into consideration UK best practice for listed companies.
In connection with the Corporate Governance Report, the Company did not comply in 2007 with the ABI Responsible Investment Disclosure Guidelines, the Remuneration Committee provisions of the June 2006 Combined Code the Code in respect of the historical can confirm that it is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, pensionability of bonuses and benefits in kind, which is referred to in paragraph 3d social and governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
Information in this report is unaudited other than that which is required to be Indeed health and safety objectives are core to the personal objectives of Simon audited and that is stated as such in the relevant table.
Pryce and Bruce Van Allen.
The Committee also believes that the incentive structure for senior management does not raise environment, social and governance risks 1.
Remuneration Committee by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee reviews Although the Board considers itself ultimately responsible for both the framework executive directors remuneration at least annually and in reviewing in 2007 the and the cost of executive remuneration, it has delegated prime responsibility for Groups remuneration policy into 2008 and beyond, it was clarified that the base pay executive remuneration to the Remuneration Committee.
portion of an executives total remuneration should be set by reference to the local The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of the Board consisting market whereas in setting short and long-term incentives reference should be made exclusively of non-executive directors.
Details of the Committees membership to the wider, global market.
It is responsible for determining executive directors The main components of executive directors remuneration are set out below.
remuneration and reviewing proposals in respect of other senior executives.
Total executive remuneration is structured to deliver potential upper quartile The Committee also determines targets for short-term incentive plans and rewards for superior performance with a significant proportion of variable pay performance-related share schemes operated by the Company and oversees subject to stretching performance targets.
The Committee believes that the any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
Further remuneration packages of Simon Pryce, Andrew Wood and Bruce Van Allen contain details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 44. a suitable balance of directly performance-related remuneration which links both In carrying out its responsibilities during 2007 the Remuneration Committee the short-term financial performance of the Group and long-term shareholder appointed and was independently advised by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
returns with the executives total remuneration.
As Michael Harpers role as Group New Bridge Street Consultants also provided advice to the management in respect Chief Executive and Executive Chairman was an interim position for part of 2007, of individuals outside the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee and he was rewarded on a cash only basis.
For an interim executive director position, provided calculations of total shareholder return in connection with the BBA 2006 the Remuneration Committee did not consider it appropriate to offer traditional Long-Term Incentive Plan.
benefits in kind or participation in long-term incentive plans.
During 2007, the Committee also consulted with the Executive Chairman who was not then a member of the Remuneration Committee, the Group Chief a.
Salary, Benefits and Service Contract Executive, the Group Secretary and the newly appointed Group HR Director in The policy of the Committee is to provide base salaries that are positioned around connection with its work, although not directly in connection with their own mid-market when compared to local salary data.
Salary is reviewed by reference to remuneration.
During 2008, it is anticipated that the Committee will wish to consult market conditions, financial and individual performance.
In addition to basic salary, with the Group Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the Group Secretary.
executive directors receive traditional benefits in kind, principally a company car allowance, private medical insurance and death in service benefits.
The policy of the Committee is to make new executive director appointments with a rolling service agreement which can be terminated by the Company on giving 12 months notice.
Bonus d. Pension Annual cash bonuses for executive directors and senior management are based Pension provision for the executive directors varies and reflects differing UK and US on financial performance and personal objectives which are set annually.
Further details are set out on pages 55 and 56. of the 2007 bonus arrangements are set out on page 50.
The Remuneration Committee carried out a review of remuneration 3.
Policy implementation: Directors Remuneration arrangements in connection with the demerger in 2006.
Salary, Benefits and Service Contracts the Committee decided to increase the maximum bonus potential for executive Base salaries are reviewed annually by reference to comparator groups selected on directors during 2007 from 65% to 100% of salary with more stretching performance the basis of comparable size, geographic spread and business focus.
Individual salary targets at entry level and above target.
Approximately 85% of the maximum bonus decisions take into account personal contribution, business performance and the is based on financial objectives.
For 2007, 25% of this bonus was subject to level of pay awards elsewhere in the Group.
Following a review at the end of 2007 compulsory deferral into BBA Aviation shares and a further 25% may be voluntarily the Remuneration Committee approved with effect from 1 January 2008 a base deferred under the BBA Deferred Bonus Plan.
This structure remains unchanged for salary of 500,000 for Simon Pryce, of 333,275 for Andrew Wood and of $554,500 the 2008 bonus arrangements.
The Committee believes that the changes made for Bruce Van Allen.
brought the Companys arrangements more closely into line with market practice, providing a greater proportion of variable pay subject to stretching performance Set out below are the contractual notice periods for executive directors who served targets which are linked to shareholder returns.
The deferral into shares also provides during the year.
a direct linkage with shareholders interests.
The detail of the plan is provided in Months Notice paragraph 3b below.
Contract Date By Company To Company Michael Harper 04 04 06 1 1 c. Long-Term Incentives Simon Pryce 23 04 07 12 12 The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant element of executive Andrew Wood 13 02 01 12 6 directors remuneration should be linked to performance-related long-term Bruce Van Allen 01 01 04 12 12 incentives.
The Companys schemes were reviewed in 2006 as part of the demerger and shareholder approval was given to three new share schemes, details of which appointed as interim CEO in February 2006 and as Executive Chairman from 17 January 2007. are set out in paragraph 3c below.
The schemes were developed to take due Resumed position as non-executive director on 11 June 2007. appointed 11 June 2007. account of market and best practice and provide long-term management focus and motivation.
The Committee has also recognised the need for flexibility in this area In the event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee will, within legal to allow them to respond to changing market practices and different geographic norms.
Specifically, incentive plan limits remain set at relatively high levels to constraints, determine the approach to be taken according to the circumstances of each individual case, taking account of the departing directors obligation to accommodate the US market, where the largest concentration of BBA Aviations businesses is found.
There are no current proposals to change this arrangement mitigate his loss.
In certain circumstances, and other than for termination for non-performance, the executive directors may receive compensation upon early for awards to be made in 2008.
As part of its strategy to align shareholders and directors interests, the termination of a contract which could amount to up to one years remuneration based on basic salary, bonus, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice Remuneration Committee expects all executive directors to build and maintain a holding of shares with a value at least equal to their base salary.
For the first year after his appointment Simon Pryce may, in certain circumstances relating to a change in control, receive compensation upon early termination of his contract of up to two years remuneration.
This reduces during the second year after his appointment and after this initial two-year period any such compensation could only amount to up to one years remuneration.
Table 1 page 53 sets out details of the executive directors salaries and non-executive directors fees.
The salary of Michael Harper as interim Group Chief Executive and as Executive Chairman was calculated on a cash basis, including cash elements attributable to bonus, pension and car allowance.
49 c. Long-Term Incentives Directors Remuneration Report BBA 2006 Executive Share Option Plan, BBA 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and BBA 2006 Deferred Bonus Plan the 2006 Plans b.
Bonus In November 2006 shareholders approved the 2006 Plans which together replace Bonus payments made in respect of 2007 for Simon Pryce, Andrew Wood and the BBA Group 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan and allow the awards of options, Michael Harper were calculated on the basis of the Groups adjusted earnings per conditional shares and matching shares.
share and Group free cash flow and, in the case of Simon Pryce and Andrew Wood, Under the BBA 2006 Executive Share Option Plan, the maximum number of the achievement of measurable personal objectives.
Simon Pryces bonus was options which an executive may be granted in any year is limited to three times prorated for his actual service in the 2007 financial year.
Michael Harper was not basic salary, or four times basic salary if the Remuneration Committee determines allocated personal objectives due to the short-term nature of his executive role that an executive will not receive a conditional share award in that year.
No options and his bonus was also prorated.
Bruce Van Allens bonus for 2007 reflected his were awarded in 2007 and there is no immediate intention to operate the BBA 2006 operational responsibility for the Flight Support business being based on the Executive Share Option Plan.
achievement of budgeted operating profit and operating cash flow, together Under the BBA 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, conditional awards of shares with Group adjusted earnings per share and the achievement of measurable are limited to one times the executives basic salary or two times basic salary if personal objectives.
the Remuneration Committee determines that the executive will not be granted The bonus for 2007 was expressed as a percentage of salary and the potential options in that year.
Conditional awards made to Simon Pryce when he joined in payout ranged from zero to a maximum of 100% of salary.
For Simon Pryce, Andrew June 2007 were two times basic salary, while those made to Andrew Wood and Wood and Bruce Van Allen 85% of the bonus was based on financial targets with the Bruce Van Allen in 2007 were limited to one times basic salary.
The Remuneration remaining 15% based on measurable personal objectives.
It was also provided that Committee considers the award levels appropriate and in line with its policy to 25% of any bonus paid under this scheme to Simon Pryce, Andrew Wood and Bruce reward superior performance with potential upper quartile remuneration.
Van Allen would be compulsorily deferred into BBA Aviation shares with a further In 2006 conditional shares were not awarded until November due to the 25% voluntarily deferred at the directors discretion.
Matching will be provided on demerger process.
The conditional share awards made in 2006 will potentially vest the deferred shares, whether compulsory or voluntary, on a one to one basis subject and be released to participants three years after the time at which awards would to meeting a total shareholder return TSR performance criteria over a three-year under normal circumstances have been made.
The conditional share awards made period.
The TSR performance condition to be used for the matching shares is the in 2007 will potentially vest and be released to participants in March 2010.
The same as that stated below for the 2006, 2007 and 2008 conditional share awards.
awards made in 2006 and those made in 2007 are both subject to two performance The BBA 2006 Deferred Bonus Plan, details of which are set out below, governs the targets.
50% of each award is subject to a performance target that measures the basis on which such deferral and matching is made.
Companys TSR against a comparator group of companies.
The other 50% is subject In recognition of the forfeiture of potential bonus and other incentive to an adjusted earnings per share EPS performance target.
The comparator group awards from his previous employer, on Simon Pryces joining BBA Aviation plc he of companies chosen in 2006 for the TSR element was based on FTSE 350 listed was made an award of 213,700 shares on 18 June 2007.
This award which is neither companies from the industrial transportation, travel and leisure, and aerospace and pensionable nor transferable was made in accordance with the provisions of the defence sectors.
Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which permits a company to enter into a bespoke long-term incentive plan arrangement without requiring formal The comparator group in respect of the 2006 award of conditional shares is: shareholder approval in order to facilitate the recruitment, in unusual circumstances, Comparator Group 2006 Awards of an individual.
The shares subject to this award will be released in tranches subject Arriva Go-Ahead Group Qinetiq to Simon Pryces continued employment on the relevant vesting dates.
No Avis Europe Gondola Holdings Rank Group conditions other than this service condition apply to this award.
In the event of a BAE Systems Greene King Restaurant Group change of control of the Company prior to all shares being released, all unreleased BBA Aviation Intercontinental Hotels Group Rolls-Royce Group shares will be released to him immediately.
This award is included in the figures in British Airways Ladbrokes Smiths Group Table 3 on page 54.
Carnival Luminar Stagecoach Group As reported last year the bonus payments in respect of 2006 to each of Michael Chemring Group Meggitt Ultra Electronics Holdings Harper, Andrew Wood and Bruce Van Allen were deferred into shares.
The number Cobham Millennium & Copthorne Hotels VT Group of shares deferred was increased by 10% and subject to restrictions on sale or Compass Group Mitchells & Butlers Wetherspoon JD transfer until 1 June 2007.
Those shares are now held without restrictions by those EasyJet MyTravel Group Whitbread directors and included in the figures in Table 2 on page 53.
Enterprise Inns National Express William Hill Bonus payments to the executive directors in respect of 2008 will be calculated on a similar basis as payments in respect of 2007, with the potential payout ranging First Choice Hols Northgate Wolverhampton & Dudley from zero to a maximum of 100% of salary and with 85% of the bonus being based First Group Partygaming on financial targets based on the Groups adjusted earnings per share and, for Forth Ports Punch Taverns Simon Pryce and Andrew Wood, Group free cash flow, and for Bruce Van Allen, the budgeted operating profit and operating cash flow of the Flight Support business with the remaining 15% based on measurable personal objectives.
Financial performance targets and appropriate personal objectives for 2008 have been approved by the Committee.
The performance measures for the bonuses in respect of 2007 and 2008 were chosen by the Committee because each measure is a factor over which the individual has a direct impact and each of the measures continue to be collectively good indicators of corporate performance that should link to long-term shareholder reward.
50 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 The Committee reviewed the comparator group used for the 2006 awards in 2007 The performance conditions in respect of the 2006, 2007 and 2008 awards and focused the selection of comparator companies on those that better reflect of conditional shares will be measured over a three year performance period: the market in which BBA Aviation operates.
The comparator group for the 2007 TSR ranking in Percentage of TSR awards will be used in respect of awards in 2008. comparator group part of award vesting At or above 75th percentile 100% The comparator group in respect of the 2007 award of conditional shares is: Between median and Pro rata Comparator Group 2007 Awards 75th percentile between 25% and 100% Arriva EasyJet Northgate At median 25% Avis Europe First Choice Hols Qinetiq BAE Systems First Group Rolls-Royce Group Below median Nil BBA Aviation Forth Ports Smiths Group British Airways Go-Ahead Group Stagecoach Group Carnival Meggitt Ultra Electronics Holdings Chemring Group MyTravel Group VT Group EPS growth Percentage of EPS Cobham National Express per annum part of award vesting At or above RPI 100% If median position is not achieved in the TSR ranking, the TSR part of the award increase plus 7% per annum will lapse.
If EPS growth over the performance period is less than the increase in the Between 3% and 7% per annum Pro rata retail price index plus 3% per annum, the EPS part of the award will lapse.
In neither between 33% and 100% case will there be retesting.
In line with the method used to test the satisfaction At RPI increase 33% of performance conditions under previous awards, the Remuneration Committee has chosen to have the benefit of the expertise of an independent remuneration plus 3% per annum consulting firm, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, to calculate TSR and the external Less than RPI increase Nil auditors will perform certain agreed procedures on the EPS calculation.
The EPS plus 3% per annum growth is calculated on a constant exchange rate basis.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to take account of the move to International Accounting BBA Group 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan Standards and the effect this has on earnings per share-based performance and Share Option Schemes prior to 2005 conditions and will endeavour to ensure that performance is measured on a The BBA Group 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2004 Plan provided for consistent basis.
awards of options, conditional shares and matching shares.
Options granted in Details of awards made to the executive directors under the BBA 2006 2005 under the 2004 Plan are subject to the following performance conditions, Long-Term Incentive Plan during the year are set out in Table 3 on page 54. which will be measured from the financial year ending just prior to the grant over The Committee believes that the two performance measures chosen for its a three-year period: incentive schemes adjusted earnings per share growth and comparative total Average EPS growth Percentage of option shareholder return each represent a reasonable long-term indication of the above inflation exercisable financial success of the Company.
They are also measures that are acceptable to 7% or more per annum 100% the majority of the investors in the Company.
3% to 7% per annum Pro rata between 33% and 100% Under the BBA 2006 Deferred Bonus Plan, participants who defer part of their 3% per annum 33% annual bonus may receive a matching award that will be limited to the number Less than 3% per annum Nil of shares purchased with his or her own money.
The Remuneration Committee required executive directors to defer 25% of any payment received in 2008 under the 2007 bonus scheme and permitted up to a maximum of a further 25% to be deferred.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the award levels under both the LTIP and the Deferred Bonus Plan are not excessive and in making these awards the Remuneration Committee took prevailing remuneration practice and the wish for a significant portion of the executive remuneration to be linked to performance into account.
The vesting of any matching awards made in 2008 under the BBA 2006 Deferred Bonus Plan will be subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition that will measure the Companys TSR against that of a comparator group over a three-year performance period.
This TSR performance condition will be the same as the TSR performance condition used for the 2006, 2007 and 2008 conditional share awards.
51 Performance Charts Directors Remuneration Report The charts below show the Companys total shareholder return over the last five financial years compared with the equivalent information for the FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation sector which the Committee considers to be a suitable broad-based The Remuneration Committee approved the rebasing of the performance equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The first graph shows condition for the options granted in 2004 and 2005 so that earnings attributable the annual change in total shareholder return for the Company and the index, while to the Fiberweb business demerged in November 2006 were excluded from the the second graph shows the cumulative change in total shareholder return from calculation.
In line with the treatment of performance conditions under earlier January 2003.
Company share option schemes, the external auditors performed certain agreed procedures on the earnings per share calculation.
The EPS growth is calculated on Annualised total shareholder return: a constant exchange rate basis.
BBA Aviation vs Industrial Transportation sector All executive options awarded by the Company prior to 2005 were made under 60 the BBA Group 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, which expired in April 2004.
50 All outstanding options granted under the scheme are subject to performance 40 conditions.
The performance conditions relating to the options granted in 2004 were 30 satisfied and the options vested in 2007.
Prior to March 2002 the BBA Group 1995 20 Executive Share Appreciation Rights Plan was used to facilitate the grant of options 10 to US executives on the same basis as the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, in any financial year a 0 participant could be granted options with an exercise price not exceeding two -10 times annual earnings.
Such options vested and became exercisable as the growth -20 in the Companys earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of three consecutive -30 years was at least 9% greater than the growth in inflation.
-40 03 04 05 06 07 08 BBA Group 2004 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme BBA Aviation FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation Index Executive directors may be eligible to participate in the BBA Group 2004 SavingsRelated Share Option Scheme, which is open to all eligible UK employees.
Options Cumulative total shareholder return: are granted under three or five year SAYE contracts at a 20% discount to the stock BBA Aviation vs Industrial Transportation sector market price at the offer date.
The maximum overall employee contribution is 250 per month.
220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 BBA Aviation FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation Index 52 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Total shareholder return % Total shareholder return % Table 1 Emoluments and fees audited Basic salary Car Other Annual Total Total 1 and fees Allowance emoluments Benefits bonus 2007 2006 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2 10 Michael Harper 444 304 748 733 3 3 4 3 Simon Pryce 268 8 54 2 227 559 5 Andrew Wood 322 14 75 2 272 685 609 Bruce Van Allen 268 11 12 222 513 509 Mark Harper 47 47 3 Nick Land 45 45 13 John Roques 43 43 38 6 Hansel Tookes 35 35 7 Roberto Quarta 13 13 161 8 Bob Phillips 12 12 30 9 David Rough 15 15 38 Total 1,512 33 129 16 1,025 2,715 2,134 1 Benefits includes benefits in kind such as life assurance and private medical insurance.
2 Michael Harper received 358,800 as Executive Chairman and interim CEO in respect of January to June 2007, and 85,000 in fees as non-executive Chairman from July to December 2007.
3 From date of appointment 11 June 2007.
4 Amount paid by the Company into Simon Pryces Self Invested Personal Pension from date of appointment 11 June 2007.
5 T he Companys contributions to Andrew Woods FURBS ceased on 5 April 2006 and following the change in UK pension law he elected to receive a cash replacement equivalent to the FURBS benefit 75,312.
6 From date of appointment 19 February 2007.
7 To date of resignation 17 January 2007.
8 To date of resignation 5 May 2007.
9 To date of resignation 26 April 2007.
10 Bonus received as Executive Chairman and interim CEO in respect of January to June 2007.
Table 2 Directors interests in share capital includes interests held by a directors spouse 16 16 Ordinary 29 21p shares Ordinary 29 21p shares 1 Jan 2007 31 Dec 2007 or date of or date of appointment, if later resignation, if earlier Beneficial Beneficial Michael Harper 83,154 92,675 Simon Pryce 55,419 Andrew Wood 84,230 106,177 Bruce Van Allen 77,213 77,213 Mark Harper 4,000 4,000 Nick Land 10,000 10,000 John Roques 10,920 10,920 Hansel Tookes 5,000 Roberto Quarta 31,936 31,936 Bob Phillips 2,520 2,520 David Rough 18,669 18,669 There were no changes in directors interests in share capital between 31 December 2007 and 27 February 2008.
53 Directors Remuneration Report Table 3 Award of Ordinary and Conditional Shares audited Vested Awarded lapsed 1 Jan during during Award 31 Dec Award 2007 the year the year date 2007 1 Simon Pryce Ordinary 213,700 18 06 07 213,700 Conditional 347,900 18 06 07 347,900 Andrew Wood Conditional 160,800 116,400 19 03 07 277,200 Bruce Van Allen Conditional 141,400 100,300 19 03 07 241,700 1 Under the award of shares made to Simon Pryce on 18 June 2007, 36,900 ordinary shares will be released to him at nil cost in March 2008 and 176,800 ordinary shares will be released to him at nil cost in equal 33.3% tranches after one, two and three years of service.
Additional notes i Conditional awards made in 2006 and made during the year are subject to the performance conditions set out on page 51.
16 ii The mid-market price of a BBA Aviation plc ordinary 29 21p share on 19 March 2007 was 281p and on 18 June 2007 was 283.75p.
2 1995 Executive Share Appreciation Rights Plan.
Additional notes 16 i BBA Aviation plc ordinary 29 21p shares: mid-market price on 31 December 2007 was 205.25p.
Mid-market price for 2007 was in the range 194.75p to 289.50p.
ii There were no changes in the directors options to acquire ordinary shares between 31 December 2007 and 27 February 2008. iii Options granted under the 1994 amended 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme vested and became exercisable as the growth in the Companys earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of three consecutive years was at least 9% greater than the growth in inflation.
iv Options granted under the 2004 Plan are only exercisable after the third anniversary of the date of grant and if the performance conditions as set out on page 51 are satisfied.
v On 20 March 2007 Andrew Wood exercised 192,131 options at 153p per share and sold 172,131 ordinary shares at 280.6657p per share.
vi 36,000 unexercised options held by Bruce Van Allen lapsed on 21 April 2007, their expiry date.
54 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 d. Pension expenses and any special funding.
The rate of contribution for Andrew Wood was UK 36% per annum of pensionable earnings in excess of the earnings cap.
On 5 April Throughout the year under review, Andrew Wood participated in the Companys 2006 the FURBS arrangements ceased as a result of the Simplification regulations UK Defined Benefit Plan.
It is the Committees policy that the bonus of any new under the Finance Act 2004. director joining the Companys UK pension plans from April 2000 will not be From 6 April 2006 revised arrangements applied to all the Companys UK pensionable and accordingly pensionable earnings for Andrew Wood comprise pension arrangements as a result of both the Finance Acts 2004 and 2005 and the basic salary only.
The Company and the Plan Trustee in respect of the Defined Andrew Woods normal retirement age under the Defined Benefit Plan is Benefit Plan agreed that a Notional Earnings Cap should be implemented in place his 62nd birthday in line with that of existing directors who were members of of the state earnings cap in order to limit the Companys exposure to increases in the Defined Benefit Plan when he joined.
In the case of death before retirement, both Defined Benefit liabilities and additional matching Defined Contribution a contingent widows pension equal to two-thirds of the members prospective contributions.
Directors and other employees whose earnings were above the pension is payable.
Other dependants pensions may also be paid.
The Plan Rules Notional Earnings Cap were given a choice of receiving either a contribution to the guarantee pension increases in retirement by RPI up to 5%.
Further discretionary Defined Contribution Plan or a cash replacement equivalent to the contribution that increases are possible if RPI is above 5%.
would have been paid to a FURBS.
Andrew Wood elected to receive a cash All the Companys UK Defined Benefit Plans were closed to new entrants replacement equivalent.
from April 2002: new employees from that date have the option to join a Company Simon Pryce does not participate in the Companys Defined Contribution Plan.
sponsored Stakeholder style Defined Contribution Plan provided through an A sum equal to 20% of his base salary is paid by the Company into his Self Invested external investment manager.
The Company matches the employees contribution Personal Pension.
in a range of 3% to 7.5% up to the state defined Earnings Cap or a notional equivalent.
Although Michael Harper was employed in an executive capacity during Andrew Wood was restricted in the level of benefits he could earn under the 2007 while he was interim Chief Executive and then Executive Chairman, he did Groups pension plan by the state earnings cap 105,600 for the tax year 2005 2006 not participate in any of the Companys pension schemes.
Instead, his cash and therefore the Company provided a funded unapproved retirement benefits compensation was calculated so that a proportion related to pension benefits scheme FURBS at its discretion for him.
The Companys FURBS was closely related he would have received had it been a permanent appointment.
to the contribution the Company made to the approved Defined Benefits Plan less Table 5 UK Defined Contribution Scheme audited Company contributions 2006 2007 000 000 Andrew Wood 28 Table 6 UK Defined Benefit Schemes audited Transfer Increase Accrued Transfer Real value of real transfer Accrued Transfer Directors pension at value at increase Increase in pension less values less pension at value at Directors age contribution 31 Dec 31 Dec in accrued accrued directors directors 31 Dec 31 Dec at 31 Dec during year 2006 2006 pension pension contributions contributions 2007 2007 2007 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 A R Wood 56 6 22 368 4 5 63 107 26 481 Additional notes i The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on normal retirement based on service to and pensionable salary at the end of the year.
ii The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN 11.
The transfer value represents a liability of the Company pension scheme not a sum due or paid to a director.
iii The increase in transfer values between 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 is as a result of changes in pensionable salary, one years extra service, increase in the age of the director and effects of changes in market conditions.
Table 7 US Defined Contribution Scheme audited Company contributions 2006 2007 000 000 Bruce Van Allen 5 5 55 Directors Remuneration Report Table 8 US Defined Benefit Schemes audited Transfer value of real Increase Accrued Transfer Real increase in in transfer Accrued Transfer Directors pension at value at increase Increase in pension less values less pension at value at Directors age contribution 31 Dec 31 Dec in accrued accrued directors directors 31 Dec 31 Dec at 31 Dec during year 2006 2006 pension pension contributions contributions 2007 2007 2007 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Bruce Van Allen 52 10 564 564 62 84 52 74 648 648 Roberto Quarta 58 174 2,535 174 2,535 Notes i Accrued pension amounts shown for Bruce Van Allen are lump sums.
ii Roberto Quarta cannot receive his pension in lump sum form under the terms of his plan.
iii The increase in transfer values between 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2007 is as a result of changes in pensionable salary, one years extra service, increase in the age of the directors and the change in the US dollar sterling exchange rate over the year.
Roberto Quarta resigned as a non-executive director on 17 January 2007.
The accrued pension and transfer value amounts shown are at his date of resignation.
The level of fees for non-executive directors is determined by the Board as a whole US Bruce Van Allen participates in the Groups Senior Executive Pension Plan for North on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive using independent market surveys.
Non-executive directors fees were reviewed in 2007 and with effect from America the Plan.
The Company has funded projected Plan benefits since January 2004.
Benefits under the Plan are based on a five-year averaging of compensation 1 March 2007 increased to 40,000 p. a.
This is in line with current market practice of comparable organisations.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the including bonus payments, less amounts received from other Company-sponsored retirement plans in which the executive participates.
In the case of death prior to Remuneration Committee each receive an annual supplement of 7,500.
The Senior Independent Director receives an annual supplement of 5,000 and as from March retirement, the accrued benefit reverts to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the executive, and is paid in a lump sum.
2007 the CSR Responsible Director received an annual supplement of 2,500.
The supplements reflect the increased commitments and demands placed upon each The Plan provides that upon achieving age 62, Bruce Van Allen is entitled to receive an unreduced Plan benefit upon his retirement.
In addition, he is entitled to of the non-executive directors in performing their duties on the Board and its principal committees.
a reduced benefit under the Plan should he elect to take early retirement.
Bruce Van Allen also participates in a retirement savings 401 k plan sponsored by the Group Details of the non-executive directors fees for 2007 are set out in Table 1 page 53. company that employs him.
Details of the Company contributions made to the 401 k plan to his benefit are set out at in Table 7 on page 55.
The dates of appointment or subsequent re-appointment and unexpired term of the non-executive directors as at 27 February 2008 are set out below: As an executive director of the Group, Roberto Quarta participated in a United States executive retirement plan and he retains benefits accrued under that plan Date of appointment Unexpired term as at over the period of his employment with the Group.
This plan is funded by the Group re-appointment 27 February 2008 and provides for the commencement of benefit payments in 2010.
Under the terms Michael Harper 01 07 07 28 months of the plan, this benefit is based on the highest three years of Roberto Quartas Mark Harper 01 12 06 21 months compensation received from the Group, inclusive of bonus payments and taxable Nick Land 01 08 06 17 months benefits in kind, less amounts received under other Group retirement plans in which John Roques 11 01 08 14 months he has participated.
Hansel Tookes 19 02 07 23 months Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Directors retiring by rotation and standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM The non-executive directors each have a letter of appointment which is available are shown on page 42. for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys share option the Companys registered office.
No compensation would be payable for the early schemes, long-term incentive plan or pension arrangements.
As disclosed in this termination of the appointment of any non-executive director.
report, Roberto Quarta retains an entitlement to a pension which accrued whilst he was an executive director.
Directors Remuneration Report approved by the Board on 27 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Mark Harper Chairman, Remuneration Committee 56 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Basis of audit opinion Independent Auditors Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK to the members of BBA Aviation plc and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BBA Aviation plc for the consolidated financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the consolidated consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate 1 to 30.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements of BBA Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2007. and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to information in the consolidated financial statements and the part of the Directors state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Remuneration Report to be audited.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Opinion report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: Remuneration Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on 1985: and Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial consolidated financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view, whether the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors remuneration As explained in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the group in report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review and of its profit for the year then ended.
section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the Deloitte & Touche LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
London, United Kingdom We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the 27 February 2008 Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
57 Consolidated Income Statement 2007 2006 Underlying Note i Total Underlying Note i Total Notes m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 1 979.4 979.4 950.1 950.1 Cost of sales 786.1 786.1 767.4 767.4 Gross profit 193.3 193.3 182.7 182.7 Distribution costs 17.3 17.3 18.8 18.8 Administrative expenses 71.5 0.8 72.3 64.7 0.6 65.3 Other operating income 0.5 0.5 3.5 3.5 Share of profit of associates 1.1 1.1 0.4 0.4 Amounts written-off associates 7.6 7.6 Other operating expenses 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Restructuring costs 5.6 5.6 7.4 7.4 Gain on disposal of businesses 38.4 38.4 Operating profit from continuing operations 1,2 105.7 24.4 130.1 102.8 8.0 94.8 Investment income 3 44.8 44.8 43.5 43.5 Finance costs 3 64.1 64.1 68.1 68.1 Profit before tax 86.4 24.4 110.8 78.2 8.0 70.2 Tax 4 23.3 0.3 23.6 23.4 2.7 20.7 Profit for the period from continuing operations 63.1 24.1 87.2 54.8 5.3 49.5 Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations 5 16.7 92.9 76.2 Profit on disposal after tax 5 16.5 16.5 Profit loss for the period 63.1 24.1 87.2 71.5 81.7 10.2 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 63.3 24.1 87.4 71.4 81.7 10.3 Minority interest 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 63.1 24.1 87.2 71.5 81.7 10.2 Adjusted Unadjusted Adjusted Unadjusted Earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations: Basic 7 15.4p 21.2p 14.9p 2.2 p Diluted 7 15.3p 21.1p 14.9p 2.1 p From continuing operations: Basic 7 15.4p 21.2p 11.4p 10.3p Diluted 7 15.3p 21.1p 11.4p 10.3p Before items described in Note i below.
Note i: Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposal of businesses as set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Before restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposal of businesses as set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
58 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheet 2007 2006 Notes m m Non-current assets Intangible assets: Goodwill 9 340.2 314.1 Licences & other 9 40.1 20.9 Property, plant and equipment 10 310.4 316.4 Interests in associates 11 1.6 8.8 Trade and other receivables 13 16.9 28.8 709.2 689.0 Current assets Inventories 12 141.9 131.3 Trade and other receivables 13 185.7 171.8 Cash and cash equivalents 99.2 156.5 Tax recoverable 3.4 0.1 430.2 459.7 Total assets 1 1,139.4 1,148.7 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 14 193.5 185.5 Tax liabilities 42.8 43.0 Obligations under finance leases 15 0.6 1.0 Bank overdrafts and loans 17 25.6 27.6 Provisions 19 2.0 3.4 264.5 260.5 Net current assets 165.7 199.2 Non-current liabilities Bank loans 17 416.7 470.7 Other payables due after one year 14 9.7 7.9 Retirement benefit obligations 20 10.3 21.1 Obligations under finance leases 15 24.9 27.5 Deferred tax liabilities 21 20.2 15.7 Provisions 19 21.2 22.8 503.0 565.7 Total liabilities 1 767.5 826.2 Net assets 371.9 322.5 Equity Share capital 22 122.7 122.5 Share premium account 22 346.4 345.1 Other reserves 22 3.9 3.9 Treasury reserve 22 1.4 Capital reserve 22 17.2 15.5 Hedging and translation reserves 22 32.5 27.7 Retained earnings 22 86.5 136.2 Equity attributable to shareholders of BBA Aviation plc 371.2 321.7 Minority interest 0.7 0.8 Total equity 24 371.9 322.5 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by Simon Pryce Group Chief Executive Andrew Wood Group Finance Director 59 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 2007 2006 Notes m m Operating activities Net cash flow from continuing operations 25 102.4 122.1 Net cash flow from discontinued operations 25 23.7 3.3 Net cash flow from operating activities 25 78.7 118.8 Investing activities Dividends received from associates 0.5 0.3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 36.3 90.7 Purchase of intangible assets 3.5 1.1 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.9 5.9 Acquisition of subsidiaries 27 75.9 52.7 Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and associates 26 68.1 27.8 Deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions 1.0 1.5 Reduction in cash and cash equivalents on demerger 37.5 Net cash outflow from investing activities 45.2 149.5 Financing activities Interest received 35.8 41.9 Interest paid 58.4 69.9 Interest element of finance leases paid 1.6 2.1 Dividends paid 30.0 57.7 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 1.5 5.8 Purchase of own shares 0.9 Decrease increase in loans 59.7 121.3 Decrease in finance leases 2.7 3.1 Decrease in overdrafts 4.0 3.8 Decrease in other liquid assets 18.6 3.0 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 100.5 34.5 Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 67.0 3.8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 156.5 174.9 Exchange adjustments 9.7 22.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 99.2 156.5 Net debt at beginning of year 356.9 527.1 Decrease increase in cash equivalents 67.0 3.8 Decrease increase in loans 59.7 121.3 Decrease in finance leases 2.7 3.1 Decrease in overdrafts 4.0 3.8 Decrease in other liquid assets 18.6 3.0 Bank loans disposed of on disposal demerger of subsidiaries 209.6 Bank loans acquired 2.9 Finance leases acquired 0.1 Exchange adjustments 1.0 77.1 Net debt at end of year 375.2 356.9 60 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 2007 2006 m m Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 10.2 119.5 Losses gains on net asset hedges 8.7 82.9 Exchange differences recycled on disposal of subsidiaries 4.4 Fair value movements in foreign exchange cash flow hedges 0.1 4.1 Fair value movements in interest rate cash flow hedges 2.6 2.2 Fair value movements in commodity contract cash flow hedges 0.6 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 10.6 5.6 Tax on items recognised directly in equity 3.4 0.3 Net expense recognised directly in equity 8.2 31.8 Transfer to profit or loss from equity on foreign exchange cash flow hedges 2.1 2.0 Transfer to profit or loss from equity on interest rate cash flow hedges 1.7 1.7 Transfer to profit or loss from equity on commodity contract cash flow hedges 4.0 Profit loss for the period 87.2 10.2 Total recognised income and expense for the period 75.2 41.7 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 75.4 41.8 Minority interests 0.2 0.1 75.2 41.7 61 Basis of Consolidation Accounting Policies The Group income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement incorporate the financial statements of all subsidiary undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
Basis of Accounting The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the year are The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Control is achieved accounting policies adopted are set out below.
where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International an investee so as to obtain benefits from activities.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They have also been paid over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting and tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the Standards Board.
year ended 31 December 1997 and earlier periods was written off to reserves in In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: accordance with the accounting standards then in force.
Goodwill arising on Disclosures which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after acquisitions between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 2003 was amortised on a 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial straight line basis over its useful economic life, with a maximum life of 20 years, again Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has in accordance with the accounting standards then in force.
As permitted by current been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding accounting standards, the goodwill previously written off to reserves or amortised the Groups financial instruments and management of capital see note 18.
Three through the profit and loss account has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Associated undertakings are those investments other than subsidiary Committee are effective for the current period.
These are: IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2: undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise a significant influence, IFRIC 9: Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10: Interim Financial typically through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the Reporting and Impairment.
The adoption of these interpretations has not led to any investee.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the changes in the Groups accounting policies.
post-acquisition reserves of all such companies.
In addition, the Group has elected to adopt early the following in advance of its effective date: Investments IAS 23 Revised : Borrowing Costs effective for accounting periods beginning on In the Groups financial statements, investments in associated undertakings are or after 1 January 2009 stated at cost plus the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves less provision IFRIC 14: IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding for impairment.
Requirements and their Interaction The revisions made to IAS 23 have no impact on the Groups accounting Treasury policies.
The principal change to the Standard, which was to eliminate the previously Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange available option to expense all borrowing costs as incurred, has no impact on these at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign financial statements because it has always been the Groups accounting policy to currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing capitalise borrowing costs incurred on qualifying assets.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to The adoption of IFRIC 14 had the effect of clarifying the extent to which a the date of transaction is recognised in the income statement.
surplus on a defined benefit pension scheme can be recognised in the balance The income statements of overseas operations are translated into Sterling at sheet.
The impact of this guidance on these financial statements was to limit to nil the average exchange rates for the year and their balance sheets are translated into the 65.6 million surplus on the UK Income and Protection Plan and not recognise Sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange an asset in the balance sheet, as any economic benefit or recovery via refund or differences arising on consolidation are taken to equity.
All other translation reduction in future contributions is not sufficiently certain.
differences are taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following on foreign currency borrowings and derivative instruments to the extent that they Standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial are used to provide a hedge against the Groups equity investments in overseas statements were in issue but not yet effective: operations, which are taken to equity together with the exchange difference on IFRS 8: Operating Segments the net investment in those operations.
IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign IFRIC 12: Service Concession Arrangement entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and closing rate.
Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise interest rates swaps, cross currency or basis swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the income statement immediately, and is included in the other gains and losses line of the income statement.
62 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash Post-Retirement Benefits flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an portion of the hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency translation expense as they fall due.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is determined using immediately, and is included in the operating profit line of the income statement.
the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out Gains and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognised annually on 31 December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not in the statement of recognised income and expense.
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise, Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are and are included in the operating profit line of the income statement.
already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Financial Instruments The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
past service costs, and reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset Financial assets are accounted for at the trade date.
resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Cash and cash equivalents Retirement benefit scheme contribution levels are determined by valuations Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed deposits, and other undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated Trade receivables depreciation and provision for impairments.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on a reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
straight line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: Financial liabilities and equity Land not depreciated Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance Buildings 40 years maximum of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract Plant and machinery including that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of essential commissioning costs 3-18 years its liabilities.
Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised within plant Bank borrowings and machinery.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of major items net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of those assets.
The settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures basis to the profit and loss account using effective interest method and are added for the asset are being incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the the period in which they arise.
activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
Trade payables Impairment of Assets Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have Equity instruments suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
net of direct issue costs.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to Revenue Recognition which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested for Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied and services provided by the be impaired.
Group excluding intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings and Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Within the engine overhauls business, turnover and associated profit are present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments recognised on a percentage of completion basis once the terms of the contract of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates have been agreed with the customer and the ultimate profitability of the contract of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
can be determined with reasonable certainty.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be In our pilot training business, turnover is recognised evenly over the duration less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit of each course.
is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the Research and Development Expenditure asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in which it is incurred.
amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development amount that would not have been determined had no impairment loss been expenditure is recognised only if the asset can be separately identified, it is probable recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the development costs of impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is the asset can be measured reliably.
carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
63 Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or substantially Accounting Policies enacted at the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to Intangible Assets equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Licences are shown at amortised cost.
Amortisation provided on the cost of licences is calculated on a straight line basis over the useful life of the licences.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Computer software is uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next software.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is calculated on a financial year, are discussed below.
The judgements used by management in the straight line basis over the useful life of the software.
application of the Groups accounting policies in respect of these key areas of The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets arising on estimation are considered to be the most significant.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be measured Impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets reliably.
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of the asset and is calculated Determining whether goodwill or tangible fixed assets are impaired requires an on a straight line basis over its useful life.
estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated or the individual assets.
The value in use calculation requires the Share-Based Payments entity to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based compensation or asset and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The fair value of the compensation is recognised in the income statement amount of goodwill and tangible fixed assets at the balance sheet date was as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is 340.2 million and 310.4 million respectively.
Details regarding the goodwill determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated and tangible fixed asset carrying value and assumptions used in carrying out using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of award.
These the impairment reviews are provided in notes 9 and 10. include Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For Pensions and other post-retirement benefits both cash and equity-settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the number Determining the present value of future obligations of pension and other postof options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
retirement benefit schemes requires an estimation of future mortality rates, future changes in employee benefits and length of service.
These assumptions are Leases determined in association with qualified actuaries.
The net pension liability related Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar to ownership to defined benefit type schemes at the balance sheet date was 10.3 million.
As at finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the leasing the balance sheet date the update of the actuarial valuation of the UK Income and commitments are shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of Protection Plan indicates a surplus of 65.6 million.
In accordance with IAS 19, IFRIC the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the shorter of the periods of the 14 and the Groups accounting policies, the surplus has been restricted and no asset leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
The capital elements of future has been recognised in the balance sheet, as any economic benefit or recovery via leases are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the refund or reduction in future contributions is not sufficiently certain.
Details income statement over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge regarding the carrying value and assumptions used in arriving at the carrying values on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
For all other leases operating leases the rental payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lives of the leases.
Inventory Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished goods.
Cost is calculated using the first in first out method in the Flight Support segment, and weighted average method in the Aftermarket Services and Systems segment.
Provision is made for slow moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Current tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
64 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Segmental information Aftermarket Flight Services Total Unallocated Total Support & Systems Aviation corporate continuing Business Segments m m m m m 2007 External revenue 579.5 399.9 979.4 979.4 Underlying operating profit 72.2 43.2 115.4 9.7 105.7 Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposal of businesses 9.7 34.2 24.5 0.1 24.4 Segment result from continuing operations 62.5 77.4 139.9 9.8 130.1 Underlying operating margin 12.5% 10.8% 11.8% 10.8% Investment income 44.8 Finance costs 64.1 Profit before tax 110.8 Tax 23.6 Profit for the period from continuing operations 87.2 Profit after tax from discontinued operations Profit after tax on disposal Profit for the period 87.2 Segment result includes 1.1m profit of associates within Flight Support.
Other information Capital additions 20.6 19.0 39.6 0.2 39.8 Depreciation and amortisation 19.6 10.3 29.9 0.2 30.1 Balance sheet Assets: Segment assets 579.1 396.2 975.3 59.9 1,035.2 Investments in associates 1.6 1.6 1.6 Tax recoverable 3.4 Cash and cash equivalents 99.2 Consolidated total assets 1,139.4 Liabilities: Segment liabilities 90.5 51.8 142.3 94.4 236.7 Tax liabilities 63.0 Finance lease and loan liabilities 467.8 Consolidated total liabilities 767.5 65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Segmental information continued Aftermarket Flight Services Total Unallocated Total Support & Systems Aviation corporate continuing Business Segments m m m m m 2006 External revenue 556.4 393.7 950.1 950.1 Underlying operating profit 65.5 44.6 110.1 7.3 102.8 Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposal of businesses 2.2 3.5 5.7 2.3 8.0 Segment result from continuing operations 63.3 41.1 104.4 9.6 94.8 Underlying operating margin 11.8% 11.3% 11.6% 10.8% Investment income 43.5 Finance costs 68.1 Profit before tax 70.2 Tax 20.7 Profit for the period from continuing operations 49.5 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 76.2 Profit after tax on disposal 16.5 Loss for the period 10.2 Segment result includes 0.4m profit of associates within Flight Support.
Loss after tax from discontinued operations relates to the results of Fiberweb and Becorit, further details of which are given in note 5.
Becorit, our rail friction business, was previously included as part of the Aftermarket Services & Systems segment.
Fiberweb previously formed the entire Materials Technology segment.
Other information Capital additions 29.4 17.4 46.8 0.2 47.0 Depreciation and amortisation 19.1 12.4 31.5 0.2 31.7 Balance sheet Assets: Segment assets 494.8 428.5 923.3 60.0 983.3 Investments in associates 8.8 8.8 8.8 Tax recoverable 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 156.5 Consolidated total assets 1,148.7 Liabilities: Segment liabilities 82.5 56.6 139.1 101.6 240.7 Tax liabilities 58.7 Finance lease and loan liabilities 526.8 Consolidated total liabilities 826.2 66 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 1.
Segmental information continued Revenue from continuing operations By By Capital destination origin additions Assets Geographical Segments m m m m 2007 United Kingdom 136.5 197.0 12.2 200.4 Mainland Europe 68.1 24.5 2.6 28.3 North America 722.5 754.6 24.9 799.0 Rest of World 52.3 3.3 0.1 7.5 Total 979.4 979.4 39.8 1,035.2 2006 United Kingdom 135.0 197.3 13.4 240.4 Mainland Europe 66.5 21.5 3.9 21.8 North America 698.9 727.6 27.8 714.0 Rest of World 49.7 3.7 1.9 7.1 Total 950.1 950.1 47.0 983.3 Revenue from the Groups discontinued operations was derived from the United Kingdom 2007: nil, 2006: 18.1 million, Mainland Europe 2007: nil, 2006: 239.0 million, North America 2007: nil, 2006: 238.4 million and the Rest of the World 2007: nil, 2006: 48.7 million.
An analysis of the Groups revenue from continuing operations for the year is as follows: 2007 2006 m m Sales of goods 429.2 394.8 Revenue from services 550.2 555.3 979.4 950.1 A portion of the Groups revenue from the sale of goods and services denominated in foreign currencies is cash flow hedged.
The amounts disclosed above for revenue from the sale of goods include the recycling of the effective amount of the foreign currency derivatives that are used to hedge foreign currency revenue.
The amount included in revenue from continuing operations is 2.1 million 2006: 2.0 million and revenue from discontinued operations is nil 2006: nil.
67 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Profit for the year Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting : Restructuring costs, amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposal of businesses included within operating profit from continuing operations amounted to a credit of 24.4 million 2006: charge 8.0 million.
The main items included within this are: 2007: Administrative expenses of 0.8 million relating to amortisation of intangible assets acquired and valued in accordance with IFRS 3: restructuring costs of 5.6 million relating to a number of small aviation restructuring initiatives: an impairment loss on an investment in an associated company in Brazil of 7.6 million, and: a total gain on the disposal of Oxford Aviation Training and Oxford Airport of 38.4 million.
2006: Administrative expenses of 0.6 million relating to amortisation of intangible assets acquired and valued in accordance with IFRS 3, and: restructuring costs of 7.4 million relating to a number of small aviation restructuring initiatives.
Net of tax, restructuring costs and non-recurring items included within discontinued operations amounted to nil 2006: 92.9 million.
The costs in 2006 primarily related to impairment charges for a number of Fiberweb wipes lines: line impairment charges, severance costs and other closure costs associated with the rationalisation of Fiberweb North America Hygiene: and the costs of the demerger of Fiberweb.
Other Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m Net foreign exchange gains losses 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 Research and development costs 1.5 1.8 8.9 1.5 10.7 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 26.9 28.5 59.4 26.9 87.9 Amortisation of intangible assets included in administration expenses 2.4 2.1 1.1 2.4 3.2 Amortisation of intangible assets included in cost of sales 0.8 1.1 0.8 1.1 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 30.1 31.7 60.5 30.1 92.2 Total employee costs 257.2 264.0 93.9 257.2 357.9 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 502.1 439.8 458.9 502.1 898.7 The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Total Total 2007 2006 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 1.3 1.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services to the Group The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.2 Total audit fees 1.4 1.4 Other services pursuant to legislation Tax services 0.1 Recruitment and remuneration services 0.4 Reporting accountant services 2.0 2.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates in respect of associated pension schemes Audit 0.1 0.1 Total fees payable to the Companys auditors 1.4 4.0 Primarily comprises the audit of Fiberweb historical financial information, BBA Aviation plc working capital report and Fiberweb reporting procedures report.
Investment income, finance costs and other gains and losses Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m Interest on bank deposits 39.2 38.8 0.6 39.2 39.4 Net finance income from pension schemes 3.9 3.0 1.1 3.9 1.9 Fair value gains on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges transferred from equity 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 Total investment income 44.8 43.5 0.5 44.8 43.0 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 62.3 66.5 0.7 62.3 67.2 Interest on obligations under finance leases 1.6 1.8 0.3 1.6 2.1 Other finance costs 0.9 0.5 0.9 0.5 Total borrowing costs 64.8 68.8 1.0 64.8 69.8 Less amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Total finance costs 64.1 68.1 1.0 64.1 69.1 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate in the range of 4.72% to 6.45% to expenditure on such assets.
Income tax expense Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m m m Current tax 16.3 11.7 5.5 16.3 6.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years current tax 0.5 0.9 0.6 0.5 0.3 Deferred tax note 21 8.3 7.9 16.4 8.3 8.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years deferred tax 1.5 2.0 1.9 1.5 0.1 Income tax expense for the year 23.6 20.7 23.2 23.6 2.5 Domestic income tax is calculated at 30% 2006: 30% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
In 2006, a current tax charge of 0.3 million was accounted for within the profit on disposal after tax of 16.5 million in the income statement.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2007 2006 m m Profit before tax: continuing operations 110.8 70.2 discontinued operations 99.4 110.8 29.2 Tax at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdictions 35.8% 2006: 34.5% 39.7 9.9 Tax effect of share of results of associates 0.3 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 3.6 11.2 Items on which deferred tax has not been recognised 1.3 6.2 Tax rate changes 1.2 2.9 Capital gains 11.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.1 0.2 Tax expense credit for the year 23.6 2.5 The applicable tax rate of 35.8% 2006: 34.0% represents a blend of the tax rates of the jurisdictions in which taxable profits have arisen.
The change on prior year is due to a change in the proportion of taxable profits that have arisen in each jurisdiction.
In addition to the income tax expense charged to profit or loss, a current tax credit of 2.9 million 2006: nil and a deferred tax credit of 0.5 million 2006: credit 0.3 million has been recognised in equity in the year.
69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 5.
Discontinued operations Net cash flow from operating activities discontinued operations In 2006, the Group demerged Fiberweb and disposed of Becorit as detailed below.
The cash outflow associated with discontinued operations in 2007 relates to the payment of accrued costs of the Fiberweb demerger, and to the settlement of pension liabilities relating to Becorit and two companies which formed part of Fiberweb.
Fiberweb On 30 October 2006, the Group entered into an agreement to demerge Fiberweb, which carried out all of the Groups non-woven operations and constituted the entire Materials Technology segment.
The demerger was made effective on 17 November 2006, on which date the business was distributed to the existing shareholders of BBA Group plc by way of dividend-in-specie.
The income statement and segmental results of Fiberweb for the period from 1 January 2006 to 16 November 2006 are as follows: Period ended 16 November 2006 m Revenue 527.4 Cost of sales 432.4 Distribution costs 40.6 Administrative expenses 38.6 Other operating income 1.9 Share of profit of associates 0.4 Other operating expenses 0.3 Underlying operating profit 17.8 Restructuring costs and non-recurring items note 2 84.5 Costs of demerger 33.7 Operating loss 100.4 Finance costs 1.4 Loss before tax 101.8 Income tax expense 23.3 Loss for the year 78.5 Becorit On 28 November 2006, the Group entered into a sale agreement to dispose of Becorit GmbH, which carried out all of the Groups rail friction operations.
The disposal was completed on 1 December 2006, on which date control of Becorit GmbH passed to the acquirer.
The results of Becorit for the period from 1 January 2006 to 30 November 2006 are as follows: Period ended 30 November 2006 m Revenue 16.8 Cost of sales 11.0 Distribution costs 1.1 Administrative expenses 2.0 Other operating income 0.2 Underlying operating profit 2.9 Restructuring costs and non-recurring items note 2 0.4 Operating profit 2.5 Finance costs 0.1 Profit before tax 2.4 Income tax expense 0.1 Profit for the year 2.3 Becorit, our rail friction business, was previously included as part of the Aftermarket Services & Systems segment.
A gain of 16.5 million arose on the disposal of Becorit, being the proceeds of disposal less the carrying value of the subsidiarys net assets and costs of disposal.
Dividends On 18 May 2007, the 2006 final dividend of 5.00p per share total dividend 20.6 million was paid to shareholders.
In May 2006, the 2005 final dividend paid was 8.30p per share total dividend 40.6 million.
On 2 November 2007, the 2007 interim dividend of 2.25p per share total dividend 9.3 million was paid to shareholders.
In November 2006, the 2006 interim dividend paid was 3.50p per share total dividend 17.1 million.
On the demerger of Fiberweb on 17 November 2006, a dividend was declared which was satisfied by the issue of shares in Fiberweb plc a dividend in specie.
The dividend in specie of 320.0 million represented the net assets of the businesses transferred to Fiberweb on demerger.
The existing shareholders of BBA Group plc were given shares in Fiberweb plc on a ratio of one share in Fiberweb plc for every four shares held in BBA Group plc.
Immediately after the demerger BBA Group plc changed its name to BBA Aviation plc.
In respect of the current year, the directors propose that a final dividend of 5.35p per share will be paid to shareholders on 23 May 2008.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and in accordance with IAS 10 Post Balance Sheet Events has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The proposed dividend is payable to all shareholders on the Register of Members on 25 April 2008.
The total estimated dividend to be paid is 22.1 million.
Dividend payments to minority shareholders during the year totalled 0.1 million 2006: nil.
Earnings per share Continuing and Continuing discontinued operations operations 2007 2006 2007 2006 E ar ni ngs m m m m Basic: Earnings Profit loss for the period 87.2 49.5 87.2 10.2 Minority interests 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 87.4 49.4 87.4 10.3 Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposals after tax 24.1 5.3 24.1 98.2 Profit after tax on disposal discontinued operations 16.5 Adjusted earnings 63.3 54.7 63.3 71.4 Diluted: Earnings Basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 87.4 49.4 87.4 10.3 Diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 87.4 49.4 87.4 10.3 Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposals after tax 24.1 5.3 24.1 98.2 Profit after tax on disposal discontinued operations 16.5 Adjusted diluted earnings 63.3 54.7 63.3 71.4 Number of shares 16 Weighted average number of 29 21 p ordinary shares: For basic earnings per share 412.2 478.4 412.2 478.4 Exercise of share options 1.4 2.2 1.4 2.2 For diluted earnings per share 413.6 480.6 413.6 480.6 Earnings per share Basic: Adjusted 15.4p 11.4p 15.4p 14.9p Unadjusted 21.2p 10.3p 21.2p 2.2 p Diluted: Adjusted 15.3p 11.4p 15.3p 14.9p Unadjusted 21.1p 10.3p 21.1p 2.1 p The 2006 weighted average number of ordinary shares reflects the effect of the 21 for 25 share consolidation which occurred on 16 November 2006.
Adjusted earnings per share is shown calculated on earnings before restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles net of gains on disposals because the directors consider that this gives a better indication of underlying performance.
