Glossary of Terms Average Unexpired Lease Term The average unexpired lease term expressed in years.
BREEAM Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Diluted EPRA earnings per share Earnings per share adjusted to exclude gains on sale and revaluation of investment properties and their deferred tax adjustments, the tax on profit on disposal of investment properties and fair value movements on derivative financial instruments, on a diluted basis.
Diluted EPRA net assets per share Diluted net asset value per share adjusted to exclude fair value of financial instruments and deferred tax on capital allowances and on investment properties revaluation, but including the fair value of trading properties in accordance with the best practice recommendation of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
Diluted EPRA triple net asset value Diluted EPRA net asset value per share adjusted to include fair value of trading properties.
Diluted figures Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential shares issuable under the employee share option schemes.
Earnings per share Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
Estimated rental value ERV The market rental value of lettable space as estimated by the Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
Initial yield Annualised net rents on investment properties as a percentage of the investment property valuation.
IPD The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Like-for-like portfolio Properties that have been held for the whole of the period of account.
Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
Net gearing Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
Return on capital employed ROCE Return on capital employed is measured as profit before financing costs plus revaluation surplus on investment property divided by the opening gross capital.
Reversionary yield The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the ERV.
Total shareholder return TSR The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
True equivalent yield The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows from an investment property, including current rent, reversions to current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the market value.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and the notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
71 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Financial Statements
