Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies Group and Company Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The parent companys financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by S. 230 of the Companies Act not to present a separate income statement for the parent company.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, available for sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
The measurement bases and principal accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 March 2007.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities over which the Group has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies through the exercise of voting rights.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Revenue recognition Property revenue consists of gross rental income on an accruals basis, together with sales of trading and development properties, excluding sales of investment properties.
Rental income receivable in the period from lease commencement to the earlier of lease expiry and any tenant option to break is spread evenly over that period.
Any incentive for lessees to enter into a lease agreement and any costs associated with entering into the lease are spread over the same period.
Revenue in respect of investment and other income represents investment income, fees and commissions earned on an accruals basis and profits or losses recognised on investments held for the short-term.
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
A property is regarded as sold when the significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
For conditional exchanges, sales are recognised when the conditions are satisfied.
Share-based payments The Group provides share-based payments in the form of share options, performance share plan awards and a share incentive plan.
These payments are discussed in greater detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
All share-based payment arrangements granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested prior to 1 January 2005 are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group uses a stochastic valuation model and the resulting value is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement Income Statement over the vesting period of the share-based payments.
For the performance share plan and share incentive plan awards, where non-market conditions apply, the expense is allocated, over the vesting period, to the Income Statement based on the best available estimate of the number of awards that are expected to vest.
Estimates are subsequently revised if there is any indication that the number of awards expected to vest differs from previous estimates.
Depreciation In accordance with IAS40 Investment Property, depreciation is not provided for on freehold investment properties or on leasehold investment properties.
The Group does not own the freehold land and buildings which it occupies.
Costs incurred in respect of leasehold improvements to the Groups head office at 11-15 Farm Street, London W1J 5RS are capitalised and held as short leasehold improvements.
Leasehold improvements, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Residual values are reassessed annually.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets less residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following basis: Short leasehold improvements 10% or length of lease, if shorter Plant and equipment 25% Taxation The taxation charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax payable upon realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities reflects the tax consequences of the manner in which Helical expects, at the balance sheet date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of those assets and liabilities.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
46 46 46 Helical Bar plc Helical Bar plc Helical Bar plc Report Report Report & & & Accounts Accounts Accounts 2 2 20 0 00 0 07 7 7 Financial Statements
