Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies Group and Company Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The parent companys financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by S. 230 of the Companies Act not to present a separate income statement for the parent company.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, available for sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
The measurement bases and principal accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 March 2007.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities over which the Group has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies through the exercise of voting rights.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Revenue recognition Property revenue consists of gross rental income on an accruals basis, together with sales of trading and development properties, excluding sales of investment properties.
Rental income receivable in the period from lease commencement to the earlier of lease expiry and any tenant option to break is spread evenly over that period.
Any incentive for lessees to enter into a lease agreement and any costs associated with entering into the lease are spread over the same period.
Revenue in respect of investment and other income represents investment income, fees and commissions earned on an accruals basis and profits or losses recognised on investments held for the short-term.
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
A property is regarded as sold when the significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
For conditional exchanges, sales are recognised when the conditions are satisfied.
Share-based payments The Group provides share-based payments in the form of share options, performance share plan awards and a share incentive plan.
These payments are discussed in greater detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
All share-based payment arrangements granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested prior to 1 January 2005 are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group uses a stochastic valuation model and the resulting value is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement Income Statement over the vesting period of the share-based payments.
For the performance share plan and share incentive plan awards, where non-market conditions apply, the expense is allocated, over the vesting period, to the Income Statement based on the best available estimate of the number of awards that are expected to vest.
Estimates are subsequently revised if there is any indication that the number of awards expected to vest differs from previous estimates.
Depreciation In accordance with IAS40 Investment Property, depreciation is not provided for on freehold investment properties or on leasehold investment properties.
The Group does not own the freehold land and buildings which it occupies.
Costs incurred in respect of leasehold improvements to the Groups head office at 11-15 Farm Street, London W1J 5RS are capitalised and held as short leasehold improvements.
Leasehold improvements, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Residual values are reassessed annually.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets less residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following basis: Short leasehold improvements 10% or length of lease, if shorter Plant and equipment 25% Taxation The taxation charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax payable upon realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities reflects the tax consequences of the manner in which Helical expects, at the balance sheet date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of those assets and liabilities.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
46 46 46 Helical Bar plc Helical Bar plc Helical Bar plc Report Report Report & & & Accounts Accounts Accounts 2 2 20 0 00 0 07 7 7 Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The basis on which the deferred tax asset, in respect of future tax relief available on share awards that vest, has changed.
The deferred tax asset reflects the estimated value of tax relief available on the vesting of the awards rather than on the accumulated charge at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
It is recognised in the Income Statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which dividends are declared.
Investment properties Investment properties are properties owned or leased by the Group which are held for long-term rental income and for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are initially recognised at cost and revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value as determined by professionally qualified external valuers.
In accordance with IAS40, investment properties held under leases are stated gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are included in other operating income in the Income Statement of the period in which they arise.
In accordance with IAS40, as the Group uses the fair value model, no depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties including integral plant.
When the Group redevelops an existing investment property for continued future use as investment property, the property remains an investment property measured at fair value and is not reclassified.
Interest is capitalised before tax relief until the date of practical completion.
Investment in joint ventures Entities whose economic activities are controlled jointly by the Group and by other ventures independent of the Group are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under IFRS the Groups share of the results and of the net assets of the joint ventures are shown in the Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet Balance Sheet respectively.
Under IFRS the Companys cost of investment in joint ventures is shown in the Company Balance Sheet.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are held in the Company balance sheet at cost and reviewed annually for impairment.
Goodwill Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired, is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately after acquisition in the Income Statement.
Land, developments and trading properties Land, developments and trading properties held for sale are inventory and are included in the Balance Sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Investments Investments are classified as available-for-sale investments or trading investments dependent on the purpose for which they were acquired.
Available-for-sale investments, being investments intended to be held for an indefinite period, are revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
For listed investments, fair value is the bid market listed value ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the revaluation reserve except to the extent that losses are attributable to impairment, in which case they are recognised in the Income Statement.
Upon disposal, accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Balance Sheet at cost.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits with banks, other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, net of bank overdrafts.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Borrowing and borrowing costs Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of finance and other costs yet to be amortised.
Finance and other costs incurred in respect of the obtaining and maintenance of borrowings are accounted for on an accruals basis and written-off to the Income Statement over the length of the associated borrowings.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of new development and investment properties are added to the costs of such properties until the earliest of: the date when the development or investment becomes fully let: the date when the income exceeds outgoings: and, the date of completion of the development or investment.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
47 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements
