Principal accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group enters into derivative transactions such as interest rate caps and floors in order to manage the risks arising from its activities.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to fair value based on market prices, estimated future cash flows and forward rates as appropriate.
Any change in the fair value of such derivatives is recognised immediately in the Income Statement as a finance cost or income.
Leases Leases are classified according to the substance of the transaction.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee is classified as a finance lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
In accordance with IAS40, finance and operating leases of investment property are accounted for as finance leases and recognised as an asset and an obligation to pay future minimum lease payments.
The investment property asset is included in the balance sheet at fair value, gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant financing rate.
Assets leased out under operating leases are included in investment property, with rental income recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Net asset value per share Net asset values per share have been calculated in accordance with the best practice recommendations of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
Earnings per share Earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 and the best practice recommendations of EPRA.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust Shares held in the Helical Bar Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP are shown as a deduction in arriving at equity funds.
Assets, liabilities and reserves of the ESOP are included in the statutory headings to which they relate.
Use of estimates and judgements To be able to prepare accounts according to generally accepted accounting principles, management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the asset and liability items and revenue and expense amounts recorded in the financial accounts.
These estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management and the Board of Directors believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these considerations form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgement that may significantly impact on the Groups earnings and financial position are: revenue and cost recognition on developments where profits, recognised only when developments are sold and let, are spread over the construction period using estimates of the final outcome: valuation of investment properties, where external valuers are used to provide third party valuations: calculation of deferred tax liabilities, where indexation is used to reduce the provision for deferred tax on revaluation surpluses: calculation and assessment of recoverability of deferred tax assets, where it has been assumed that the provision for ESOP purchases of shares in the Company will be tax deductible on the vesting of share awards made by the Performance Share Plan: and, recognition of share-based payments charge, where it has been assumed that the share awards made under the terms of the Performance Share Plan will substantially vest and require the purchase of shares in the Company by the ESOP.
Segmental information Investment Investment and trading Developments Total and trading Developments Total Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.3.
All revenue is attributable to continuing operations.
48 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements
