Corporate Responsibility Corporate responsibility is part of Minervas business culture.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report for 2006 7 outlines how we have managed the environmental and social aspects of our business from July 2006 to June 2007, and outlines our new initiatives and targets.
Over the past year, we have continued to review and manage the environmental and social impacts of our property investments and developments and identify areas for improvement.
A summary of the key initiatives this year is provided below.
Membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series We are pleased to report that we received confirmation in June that Minerva now meets FTSEs corporate responsibility criteria, and is now a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the FTSE group, the global index company, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to identify companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards for socially responsible investment.
Corporate Responsibility Policy Minervas Environmental and Social policy had been in place since 2004, and was reviewed and updated this year.
Our environmental and social commitments are now documented in our Corporate Responsibility Policy.
One of the key updates was to promote carbon management, including carbon dioxide emissions associated with energy consumption from managed properties.
Another key inclusion was our commitment to encourage our consultants, suppliers, managing agents and contractors to adopt the objectives of the Governance Policy by applying the Minerva Sustainable Procurement Policy across our supply chain.
The Sustainable Procurement Policy was developed in recognition that significant environmental and social impacts, both positive and negative, can arise from our supply chain activities.
The Policy sets out in greater detail our commitments to improve the environmental, social and ethical impacts of our supplier base by procuring more sustainable goods and services.
The prime aim of the Policy is to raise our suppliers awareness of Minervas approach to Corporate Responsibility.
It was developed as the first step in a process 51 of engagement with our supply chain.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Sustainable developments We recognise our responsibility to ensure all our projects are developed to be as environmentally and socially sustainable as practicable.
Recognising the influence we have over designers and contractors, Minerva developed a Sustainability Checklist for design and construction to be applied to all our development projects.
As the field of sustainable construction is continually evolving, the checklist was updated in the last year to align with changes in best practice approaches.
BREEAM and Ecohomes We recognise a trend that investors and tenants are increasingly demanding that buildings are environmentally sound, especially in terms of energy efficiency and carbon dioxide emissions.
The environmental performance of our portfolio is therefore an important consideration.
A high rating using the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM can be taken as a strong indication of the likely environmental performance of a building, as it may be stipulated by investors or tenants as a requirement.
We are therefore pleased to report that the design for The Walbrook achieved an Excellent rating in a recent BREEAM assessment.
Preliminary assessments of St Botolphs and Park Place indicate that both could achieve at least a Very Good rating, and we hope to report their successful achievement of BREEAM certification in future reports.
Similarly, we assess the environmental performance of our residential developments using the Building Research Establishments Ecohomes scheme.
A pre-assessment of The Odeon development using Ecohomes 2006 predicts that the Odeon development will achieve a Good rating.
There is potential however, to improve the score in a number of areas and a Very Good rating is expected.
A pre-assessment of the Lancaster Gate development using Ecohomes 2006 predicts that the development will achieve at least a Pass rating, but there is scope to achieve a Good rating if additional steps are taken to improve the sustainability of the development.
The Grade II listed nature of the existing buildings, and the design for prime residential properties, compromises the extent to which some of the Ecohomes credits can be achieved, but the Group aims to secure the highest Ecohomes rating practicable within the limitations of the site.
Low carbon technologies This year Minerva committed to reduce the carbon emissions from its properties.
In line with the Greater London Authority energy policy, low carbon technologies and renewable energy generation have been integrated into the design of The Walbrook and St Botolphs, and options for reducing the carbon footprint of our other developments are also being explored.
For the St Botolphs development, Minerva analysed several options for energy generation from renewable sources, including wind turbines, biomass heating cooling, ground source heat pumps and aquifer heating cooling, but these had to be ruled out due to the constraints of the city-centre site.
The design now incorporates a combination of energy efficiency measures, tri-generation energy efficient production of electricity, heating and cooling and generation of energy from solar hot water panels and photovoltaic cells.
These measures will lead to significant carbon dioxide emissions reductions.
