Corporate Responsibility continued The design of The Walbrook development was revised to incorporate a range of measures to provide carbon dioxide savings, including the application of best practice in the design of the faade, lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning services.
A gas-fired tri-generation plant producing electricity, some heating and chilled water via absorption refrigeration plant is planned.
In addition, solar hot water and photovoltaic panels will be installed at roof level.
Sustainability appraisal of The Walbrook Last year, a sustainability appraisal of The Walbrook development was undertaken using Arups Sustainable Project Appraisal Routine SPeAR tool.
SPeAR is based on a four-quadrant model that structures the issues of sustainability into a framework with a focus on the key elements of environmental protection, social equity, economic viability and efficient use of natural resources.
The sustainability appraisal provided a snapshot of The Walbrooks sustainability performance.
It showed that the scheme performed well overall, but highlighted some opportunities for improvement.
When the design of The Walbrook was revised, these opportunities were taken into consideration.
We have since commissioned a comparative sustainability appraisal of The Walbrook, and are pleased to report an overall improvement in the performance of the development across a variety of indicators.
In particular, the development demonstrates strong sustainability performance with regard to transport, access and land use.
Heritage-led regeneration at the Ram Brewery In the heritage-led regeneration development Ram Brewery in Wandsworth, Minerva aims not just to meet the minimum requirements for environmental sustainability and social involvement, but to go further.
As there has been brewing activity on the site of the Ram Brewery since the 16th century, Minerva aims to retain some of the historic function of the site by creating a micro-brewery as part of the redevelopment.
The redevelopment will revitalise the surrounding area through the refurbishment of listed and historic buildings, and the addition of leisure, restaurant and commercial uses will encourage a sustainable future 52 for the buildings.
The redevelopment will provide mixed residential opportunities, which will be designed to encourage community interaction both within the residential areas and with the wider Wandsworth Minerva plc community.
By providing effective links to Wandsworths other amenities, Minerva hopes to play a key Annual report and role in the regeneration of the town centre.
