QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 71 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and the Group and Parent Company financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting other irregularities.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 integrity of the corporate and financial information included provides in relation to such financial statements that on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing references in the relevant part of that Act to financial the preparation and dissemination of financial statements statements giving a true and fair view are references may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
