QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 72 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION statements the financial statements of Quintain Estates We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards and Development PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Consolidated Cashow Statement, the Consolidated Statement the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and These financial statements have been prepared under the judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies the information in the Directors Remuneration Report are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, that is described as having been audited.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. information and explanations which we considered necessary Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to the Companys members those matters we are required to assurance that the financial statements and the part of the state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in opinions we have formed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report OPINION and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable In our opinion: law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards for the year then ended: UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 71. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the of the IAS regulations: part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 31 March 2007: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the Parent Company financial statements and the part of been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
KPMG AUDIT PLC CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has REGISTERED AUDITOR not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 8 SALISBURY SQUARE the information and explanations we require for our audit, or LONDON EC4Y 8BB if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration 13 June 2007 and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
