Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting AGM special business This section is important.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Bellway p. l. c. you should pass this document and all accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Six resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming AGM.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolution 10 Authority to directors to issue shares This is an ordinary resolution which authorises the directors to allot unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,916,200 which is equivalent to approximately 27% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 15 October 2007.
The resolution seeks to renew the authority given to the directors at the AGM in 2003.
This authority, if granted, will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2009.
As at 15 October 2007 the Company held no shares as treasury shares.
At present, the directors only intend to use this authority to satisfy the exercise of awards under the Companys share schemes.
Resolution 11 - Authority to operate a revised performance condition policy for future awards under the Bellway p. l. c. 2004 Performance Share Plan Details of the revised policy are set out below.
Resolution 12 - Authority to establish the Bellway p. l. c. 2008 Share Matching Plan the SMP This Resolution seeks shareholders approval for the introduction of a new long term incentive plan for executive directors and employees of the Company.
In this regard, the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee, all of whose members are non-executive directors, has conducted a review of the Companys remuneration policy for executive directors.
A consequence of that review is that the Committee has recommended to the Board a new share matching plan.
The Committee believes that participation in the SMP will help to recruit, retain and motivate executive directors and key personnel of the Company and Group.
A summary of the principal terms of the proposed SMP is set out below.
Resolution 13 Adoption of new Articles of Association The provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act which come into effect between 1 April 2007 and 1 October 2008 introduce, among other things, new rights for proxies.
The current Articles of Association the Articles also include references to sections of the Companies Act 1985 which have now been repealed by the Act.
Although the Act largely overrides the Articles, the directors wish to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles which are in line with the Act and enable the Company to take advantage of certain provisions of the Act.
This resolution seeks approval to adopt the New Articles which have been updated to take account of the changes and take advantage of certain new provisions introduced by the Act.
A summary of the changes are set out below.
Copies of the New Articles will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of the Companys broker, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Citigroup Centre, Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5LB and at the offices of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, 20 Little Britain, London, EC1A 7DH during usual business hours Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of publication of the Notice of AGM until the date of the AGM.
This document will also be available for inspection during the AGM and at least fifteen minutes before it begins.
Resolution 14 - Disapplication of pre-emption rights This resolution is the customary annual request that shareholders empower the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them pro-rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power allows the directors to allot equity securities for cash only a up to an aggregate nominal value of 716,690, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: or b in a rights issue or other offer of securities pro rata to shareholders up to the maximum unused amount of the general authority to allot which shareholders are being asked in Resolution 10 to confer on the directors in substitution of the authority granted to the directors by shareholders on 10 January 2003 which expires at the end of this AGM.
Resolution 15 - Companys purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last AGM, expires on the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
This authority was not used during the year.
The directors propose that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the 2009 AGM.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in the light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
Recommendation Your directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
89 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Shareholder Information Summary of the performance condition policy for future awards under the Bellway p. l. c. 2004 Performance Share Plan Introduction The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee has recently undertaken a review of the existing long-term incentive arrangements in place for the Companys senior executives.
One conclusion from the review was that a revised performance condition policy should apply to future grants under the Companys Performance Share Plan.
The revised policy proposed is set out below.
Resolution 11 being put to shareholders at the AGM seeks shareholders consent to the revised policy.
The Company considers it appropriate that such consent is formally requested as the TSR and ROCE policy proposed see below is a material change to the TSR performance condition policy originally approved by shareholders for the Performance Share Plan.
Performance conditions for future awards The vesting of awards will be subject to performance conditions set by the Committee.
In the case of the initial awards made under the revised policy it is proposed that two distinct performance conditions will apply.
The vesting of one half of each such award Part A will be dependent on the Companys TSR over a fixed three year period relative to that of an Index tracking the TSR performance of a comparator group of other housebuilders to be determined by the Committee for each grant.
Under the revised policy no portion of Part A would vest unless the Companys TSR performance at least matches that of the Index, thereafter the following vesting schedule would apply: The Companys TSR performance over the performance Extent of vesting of Part A period relative to comparator Index Equal to the Index 25% Between equal to the Index and 7.5% per annum out performance of the Index Pro-rata between 25% and 100% 7.5% per annum out performance of the Index or better 100% The TSR of the Company and those within the Index shall be measured over a fixed period being the three year period commencing with the first day of the financial period of the Company in which the date of grant falls.
The relevant TSR figures will be averaged over the three month period before the start and end of the performance period.
Further, regardless of TSR performance, no portion of Part A will vest unless the Committee considers that the Companys TSR over the performance period is reflective of underlying financial performance.
Under the revised policy the vesting of the other half of each such award Part B will be dependent on the Companys ROCE performance over three consecutive financial years of the Company starting with the financial year in which the grant of the award falls.
No portion of Part B will vest unless the Companys ROCE average annual performance over the performance period is at least an average of 15% per annum, thereafter the following vesting schedule will apply: The Companys average annual ROCE performance over Extent of vesting of Part B the performance period 15% per annum 25% 15% to 22% per annum Pro-rata between 25% and 100% 22% per annum or better 100% ROCE will be calculated on such basis as the Committee reasonably determines.
The TSR and ROCE thresholds set for future grants under the above policy will be set so as to be appropriate in the circumstances subsisting at the time of such grants.
The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described above for future awards provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the new targets are not materially less challenging in the circumstances than those described above.
The Committee may also vary the performance conditions applying to existing awards if an event has occurred which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
90 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Shareholder Information Summary of the principal terms of the Bellway p. l. c. 2008 Share Matching Plan the SMP Operation The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee will supervise the operation of the SMP.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company and its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the SMP at the discretion of the Committee.
Participation in the SMP however is currently only envisaged for the executive directors and the Group Company Secretary.
Grant of awards The Committee may grant awards to acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares within six weeks following the Companys announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks of shareholder approval of the SMP or at any other time when the Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances which justify the granting of awards.
It is proposed that the first awards will be made following the adoption of the SMP in connection with 2006 07 bonus and payable for the year to 31 July 2007 see below with then an annual award cycle envisaged following the announcement of full year results at the same time as awards under the Companys Performance Share Plan.
The Committee may grant awards as conditional shares or as a nil or nominal cost option with a short exercise period.
The Committee may also decide to grant cashbased awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
An award may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder approval of the SMP.
No payment is required for the grant of an award other than the investment of bonus in Shares as described below.
Awards are not transferable, except on death.
Purchase or award of Investment Shares Awards may only be made in conjunction with the investment or deferral of up to one quarter of an individuals pre-tax cash bonus in Shares Investment Shares.
Where such an investment is made on a gross basis, the maximum award permitted under the SMP will be an award over twice the number of the Investment Shares awarded as a conditional award representing the deferred bonus.
Where such an investment is made on a post-tax basis, the maximum award permitted under the SMP will be an award over twice the number of Investment Shares purchased multiplied up by an appropriate fraction to gross up for tax and employee social security borne by the participant on the bonus invested.
It is the current intention for the investment to be on a post-tax basis.
Under both scenarios therefore a maximum 2:1 match on a gross basis.
Where the investment is made with post-tax monies the Investment Shares will be held in a nominee account operated by the Companys employee benefit trust or held or monitored in such other manner as the Committee considers appropriate.
Performance conditions The vesting of awards will be subject to performance conditions set by the Committee.
For the first awards under the SMP the extent to which awards may vest will be dependent on the Companys ROCE performance over three consecutive financial years of the Company starting with the financial year in which the grant of the award falls.
In the case of such awards, no part of an award will vest unless the Companys average annual ROCE performance over the performance period is at least 15% per annum, thereafter the following vesting schedule will apply: The Companys average annual ROCE performance Extent of vesting over the performance period 15% per annum 25% of the award 15% to 22% per annum Pro-rata between 25% and 100% of the award 22% per annum or better 100% of the award ROCE will be calculated on such basis as the Committee reasonably select.
The ROCE thresholds set for future grants will be set so as to be appropriate in the context of the circumstances subsisting at the time of such grants.
91 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Shareholder Information Summary of the principal terms of the Bellway p. l. c. 2008 Share Matching Plan the SMP continued Vesting of awards Awards normally vest three years after grant to the extent that the applicable performance condition see above has been satisfied, the Investment Shares have been retained by the participant and provided they are still employed in the Company's Group.
On the vesting of an award, the participant will be able to vest, sell or otherwise transfer his related Investment Shares as relevant, subject to any shareholding requirement which may apply to him.
If a participant transfers, charges or otherwise disposes of his Investment Shares before the vesting of the award associated with those Investment Shares then that award will lapse pro-rata to the number of related Investment Shares so treated.
Leaving employment As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or be a director within the Company's Group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee or a director because of his death, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, his employing company or the business for which he works being sold out of the Companys Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, then his award will vest when he leaves.
The extent to which an award will vest in these situations will depend upon two factors: i the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied by reference to the date of cessation: and ii the pro-rating of the award to reflect the reduced period of time between its grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
If a participant ceases to be an employee or director in the Companys Group for one of the good leaver reasons specified above, the Committee can decide that his award will vest on the date when it would have vested if he had not ceased such employment or office, subject to: i the performance conditions measured at that time: and ii pro-rating by reference to the time of cessation as described above.
In all cases, an individual will not be treated as ceasing to be an employee or director within the Companys Group until such time as they are no longer an employee or director of any company within the Companys Group.
Corporate events In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation all awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time: and ii the pro-rating of the awards to reflect the reduced period of time between their grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on the basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
Participants rights Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the awards have vested or the options have been exercised and the participants have received their Shares.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise prior to the grant of an award, participants will receive a payment in Shares on or shortly following the vesting of their awards, of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those Shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
Alternatively, participants may have their awards increased as if dividends were paid on the Shares subject to their award and then reinvested in further Shares.
Rights attaching to Shares Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is exercised will rank equally with Shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares subject to an award and or the exercise price payable if any.
Overall SMP limits The SMP may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: a 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the SMP and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company: and b 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the SMP and any other executive share plan adopted by the Company.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
92 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Shareholder Information Summary of the principal terms of the Bellway p. l. c. 2008 Share Matching Plan the SMP continued Alterations to the SMP The Committee may, at any time, amend the SMP in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis for determining a participant's entitlement to, and the terms upon which the Shares or cash are to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the SMP, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Company's Group.
Overseas Plans The shareholder resolution to approve the SMP will allow the Board to establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the SMP, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any Shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the SMP.
Summary of proposed amendments to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles to incorporate changes brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the Act 1.
Removal of references to extraordinary resolutions which are no longer referred to in the Companies Act 2006 Proposed articles 2 and 49.
Deletion of references to stock, a concept which is no longer recognised under the Act Proposed deletion of articles 2 6, 9 to 11 and 44.
Updating references to notice periods for meetings and resolutions to ensure the Articles are consistent with the Acts requirements Proposed articles 46 and 48.
To ensure the Articles are consistent with the Act in relation to allowing proxies to speak and be counted on a vote undertaken by a show of hands at general meetings of the Company Proposed articles 51, 66 and 73 f. 5.
Removing directors age requirements to ensure the Articles are consistent with the Acts requirements Proposed deletion of article 91.
Remove the right to close the register of members, to ensure the Articles are consistent with the Acts requirements proposed partial deletion of Article 35.
Permitting the Board to approve conflicts of interest by a director.
The Board already has this power under the Companies Act 1985, but from 1 October 2008 under the Act, the Board may only use this power if expressly permitted by the Articles.
This change to the Articles therefore seeks to maintain the current position when the relevant provisions of the Act come into force.
To ensure the Articles are consistent with the Act in relation to requiring directors to declare interests in proposed transactions, when the relevant provisions of the Act come into force on 1 October 2008 Proposed articles 95 and 96.
Authorise the Company to take advantage of the new provisions on electronic communications with shareholders.
The Company is not currently considering using electronic methods to communicate with its shareholders, but may wish to do so in the future, and is seeking this amendment so that there is power in the Articles for the Company to do so.
If the Company wishes to use electronic communications in the future, then it can only do so with the consent of shareholders.
To clarify that each director is entitled to rely on the existing indemnity provisions contained in Article 162 Proposed article 162 d. 11.
General updating of definitions and statutory references to reflect the Act Proposed articles 2, 36 c, 69, 91, 118, 131 and 162.
Financial calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year March Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Preference share dividend payments at the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Annual report posted to shareholders November Final dividend ex-dividend date 5 December 2007 Final dividend record date 7 December 2007 Annual General Meeting 11 January 2008 Final dividend payment date 16 January 2008 93 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Shareholder Information Shareholders by size of holding at 31 July 2007 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 - 2,000 2,114 67.2 1,458,467 1.3 2,001 10,000 565 18.0 2,468,955 2.1 10,001 - 50,000 234 7.4 5,501,840 4.8 50,001 and over 232 7.4 105,241,134 91.8 Total  Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP Shareholders may agree to participate in the Companys DRIP to receive dividends in the form of shares in Bellway p. l. c. instead of in cash.
For further information please e-mail Capita Registrars Limited at shares@capitaregistrars.
Share dealing service The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Limited, provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com for online dealing, or call 0870 458 4577 for telephone dealing Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser, authorised under the terms of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 625 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home: and b you inform our sales representative on site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or e-mail kevin.
Beneficial owners of shares with information rights Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars Limited, or to the Company directly.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 is available to view on the Companys website www.
