Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Accounting Policies Basis of preparation Bellway plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
Both the parent company financial statements and the group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with Adopted IFRSs and have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
In these financial statements the following Adopted IFRSs are effective for the first time and comparatives have been restated accordingly: IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 5 Rights to interests arising from decommissioning, restoration and environmental rehabilitation funds IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from participation in specific markets Waste electrical and electronic equipment IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment The amendment to IAS 21 in relation to net investments in a foreign operation The amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in relation to financial guarantee contracts The amendments to IAS 39 in relation to the fair value option and the consequential amendments to IAS 32 in relation to disclosures in respect of financial assets and financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss The amendment to IAS 39 in relation to cash flow hedge accounting of forecast intra-group transactions Where the application of these Adopted IFRSs for the first time has had a material effect on the financial statements, those effects have been described under the Change in accounting policy heading below.
Change in accounting policy The adoption of IFRIC 8 has required a change to the accounting treatment of share-based payments in the parent company financial statements.
The comparative figures for the previous year have been restated accordingly.
The effects of IFRIC 8 are set out in note 25.
As the Company considers its intra-group guarantees to be insurance contracts, the amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 in relation to financial guarantee contracts have not affected the balance sheet or income statement in the current year.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by management in the application of Adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 27.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 July.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the entities assets, liabilities, income and expenses with items of a similar nature on a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
56 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Accounting Policies IFRSs available for early adoption not yet applied Of those IFRSs that are available for early adoption, none are expected to have a material effect on the financial statements.
Goodwill The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves.
Property, plant and equipment Items are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives over the following number of years: Plant, fixtures and fittings - 3 to 10 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Investment property Investment property is initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to recognition, investment property is measured using the cost model and is carried at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The residual values and useful lives of investment properties are reviewed at each financial year end.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads, not including any general administrative overheads, that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Land held for development, including land in the course of development until legal completion of the sale of the asset, is initially recorded at cost.
Where, through deferred payment terms, the fair value of land purchased differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as a finance expense in the income statement over the period to settlement.
Options purchased in respect of land are capitalised initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the value of these options, and provisions made accordingly to reflect loss of value.
The impairment reviews consider the period elapsed since the date of purchase of the option given that the option contract has not been exercised at the review date.
Further, the impairment reviews consider the remaining life of the option, taking account of any concerns over whether the remaining time available will allow a successful exercise of the option.
The carrying cost of the option at the date of exercise is included within the cost of land purchased as a result of the option exercise.
Investments in land without the benefit of planning consent, either through purchase of freehold land or non-refundable deposits paid on land purchase contracts subject to planning consent, are included initially at cost.
Regular reviews are carried out for impairment in the values of these investments, and provision made to reflect any irrecoverable element.
The impairment reviews consider the existing use value of the land and assess the likelihood of achieving planning consent and the value thereof.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are stated at their fair value at the date of initial recognition and subsequently at amortised cost less allowances for impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash balances in hand and in the bank including short term cash deposits.
The Group utilises bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as part of its cash management policy.
As a consequence, bank overdrafts are included as a component of net cash and cash equivalents within the cash flow statement.
Offset arrangements across Group businesses have been applied to arrive at the cash and overdraft figures in the balance sheet.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are recorded at amortised cost.
57 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Accounting Policies Trade and other payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on deferred terms, most notably in relation to land purchases, are recorded at their fair value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period to settlement and charged to finance expense.
Preference share capital Preference share capital is redeemable on 6 April 2014 or at the option of the Company subject to relevant conditions set out in note 14 on page 69 and is classified as a liability.
Dividends thereon are recognised in the income statement within finance expenses.
Dividends Dividends on redeemable preference shares are recognised as a liability and accrued using the effective interest rate method.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
Grants Grants are included within work in progress in the balance sheet and are credited to the income statement over the life of the developments to which they relate.
Revenue recognition Revenue from private housing sales and land is recognised when transactions have legally completed.
Sales of part exchange properties are not included in revenue: the net result of these transactions is classified as a cost of sale.
Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account current and deferred taxation.
The charge is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Deferred taxation is provided for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Employee benefits - retirement benefit costs For the defined benefit scheme, the liability is calculated as the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of scheme assets are then deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE.
Further details of the Scheme and the valuation methods applied may be found in note 23 on page 78.
Defined contribution pension costs are charged to the income statement in the period for which contributions are payable.
Employee benefits - share-based payment In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of equity settled share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured as at the date the options are granted and the charge is only amended if vesting does not take place due to non-market conditions not being met.
Various option pricing models are used according to the terms of the option scheme under which the options were granted.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of options that vest.
IFRS 2 has been applied to options granted after 7 November 2002 which had not vested at 1 January 2005.
With respect to share-based payments, a deferred tax asset is recognised on the relevant tax base.
The tax base is then compared to the cumulative sharebased payment expense recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax arising on the excess of the tax base over the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement has been recognised directly in equity outside the SORIE as share-based payments are considered to be transactions with shareholders.
58 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2007 continued Accounting Policies Employee benefits - share-based payment continued A deferred tax asset relating to awards issued before 7 November 2002, which follow the exemption of IFRS1 and have not been accounted for under IFRS2, has been recognised on transition.
Subsequent reversal of the deferred tax asset and any excess tax benefits are recognised directly in equity.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises, in its individual financial statements, an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity settled share based payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised in equity.
Own shares held by ESOP trust Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in the Group financial statements but are not accounted for within the Company's financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the Company by the trust are charged directly to equity.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Finance income and expenses Finance expenses includes interest on bank borrowings and dividends on redeemable preference shares.
The discounting of the deferred payments for land purchases produces a notional interest payable amount and this is also charged to finance expenses.
Finance income includes interest receivable on bank deposits.
