92 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 1.
General information Interpretation early adopted by the Group Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group is a leading IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, was early adopted in international property advisory group.
It has an extensive network of offices and 2007.
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving associates throughout the UK, continental Europe, the Americas, Asia Pacific and treasury shares or involving group entities for example, options over a parents Africa.
Savills is listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs 18,029 staff shares should be accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based worldwide in 185 offices.
payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the parent and Group companies.
This interpretation does not have an impact on the Group or The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England Companys financial statements as all share-based transactions are equity-settled.
The address of its registered office is 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K 3HQ.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 but not relevant The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, but are Directors on 11 March 2008. not relevant to the Groups operations: 2.
Accounting policies IFRS 4, Insurance contracts: The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied in hyperinflationary economies: and to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
IFRIC 9, Re-assessment of embedded derivatives.
Basis of preparation Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards that are not yet effective These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International and have not been early adopted by the Group Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS interpretations as adopted by the The following standards and amendments to published standards are mandatory European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, but have not been companies reporting under IFRS.
early adopted: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces as modified to include the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets to equity IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of purposes.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009.
The expected certain critical accounting estimates and for management to exercise judgement in impact is still being assessed in detail by management, but it appears likely the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher that the impact will be minimal with some minor reclassifications.
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective from 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 14 Standards, amendment and interpretations effective in 2007 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus The following amendments to published standards are mandatory for the Groups that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007: or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary amendment requirement.
The Group will apply IFRIC 14 from 1 January 2008, but it is to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital disclosures, introduces not expected to have any impact on the Groups accounts.
new disclosures relating to financial instruments and does not have any impact Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective but are not relevant on the classification and valuation of the Groups financial instruments.
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published and are IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, requires consideration of transactions involving the mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later, issuance of equity instruments, where the identifiable consideration received but are not relevant to the Groups operations: is less than the fair value of the equity instruments issued in order to establish IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January 2009. whether or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
This standard does not have The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the European any impact on the Groups financial statements.
It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment, prohibits the impairment the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill and investments in equity a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of instruments and in financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent that asset.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be balance sheet date.
This standard does not have any impact on the Groups removed.
IAS 23 is not relevant to the Groups operations because there are financial statements.
