98 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.
Financial risk management continued In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of Liquidity risk dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholder, issue new shares or sell The Group maintains appropriate committed facilities to ensure the Group has assets to reduce debt.
sufficient funds available for operations and expansion.
The Group prepares an The Groups policy is to borrow centrally if required to meet anticipated funding annual funding plan approved by the Board which sets out the Groups expected requirements.
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, are financing requirements for the next 12 months.
then on-lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising monitor a number of debt measures including gross cash by location: gross debt undrawn borrowing facilities Note 24 and cash and cash equivalents Note 21 by location: cash subject to restrictions: total debt servicing cost to operating profit: on the basis of expected cash flow.
This is carried out at local level in the operating gross borrowings as a percentage of EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, companies of the Group in accordance with Group practice as well as on a Group depreciation and amortisation : and forecast headroom against available facilities.
These internal measures indicate the levels of debt that the Group has and are closely monitored to ensure compliance with banking covenants and that the The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative Group has sufficient unused facilities.
financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the 4.
Critical accounting estimates and management judgements table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months Critical accounting estimates and assumptions equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with Between 1 and Between 2 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS requires management to make Less than 1 year 2 years 5 years estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported As at 31 December 2007 amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on Borrowings 4.6 4.0 11.1 historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that Loan notes 6.1 7.0 0.6 are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ Derivative financial instruments 0.2 from these estimates.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if there Trade and other payables 234.3 7.1 6.8 are changes in circumstances on which the estimate was based, or as a result of new information or more experience.
The estimates and assumptions that have a 245.0 18.1 18.7 significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
As at 31 December 2006 Borrowings 1.4 Pension benefits Loan notes 5.9 10.8 1.2 The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2 0.1 determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions including discount Trade and other payables 191.8 0.3 1.7 rate.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each 199.3 11.3 3.0 year.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which Capital risk management the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of The Groups objectives when managing capital are: the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based to safeguard the Groups ability to provide returns for shareholders and benefits in part on current market conditions.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 10. for other stakeholders: and Income taxes to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are transactions and Savills plc is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements, with the calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax exception of our FSA regulated entities, which complied with all capital requirements outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, during the year ended 31 December 2007. such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
99 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Critical accounting estimates and management judgements continued Fair value of options granted to employees The Group uses the Binomial Model in determining the fair value of options granted to employees under the Groups various schemes as detailed in the Remuneration Report.
Information on such assumptions is contained in Note 28.
The alteration of these assumptions may impact charges to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimate of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates.
The estimates used in these financial statements are contained in Note 15.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Provisions The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
Provisions made within these financial statements are contained in Note 26 a.
Additional claims could be made which might not be covered by existing provisions or by insurance.
Critical judgements in applying the entitys accounting policies The application of the Groups accounting policies may require management to make judgements, apart from those involving estimates, that can affect the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Such judgements include the following areas: Award of options and deferred shares to employees The Group applies judgement in deciding the proportion of the available bonus pool to be awarded to employees under its long-term share-based incentive scheme.
The Groups current policy is to deduct from the bonus pool an amount equal to the market value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, the value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged to the income statement.
The charge to the income statement is currently lower than the market value of shares to be awarded.
Valuation of intangible assets and useful life The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential future cash flows to be determined from separable intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations.
This assessment involves assumptions relating to potential future revenues, appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such assets.
These assumptions impact the income statement over the useful life of the intangible asset.
