92 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 1.
General information Interpretation early adopted by the Group Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group is a leading IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, was early adopted in international property advisory group.
It has an extensive network of offices and 2007.
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving associates throughout the UK, continental Europe, the Americas, Asia Pacific and treasury shares or involving group entities for example, options over a parents Africa.
Savills is listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs 18,029 staff shares should be accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based worldwide in 185 offices.
payment transactions in the stand-alone accounts of the parent and Group companies.
This interpretation does not have an impact on the Group or The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England Companys financial statements as all share-based transactions are equity-settled.
The address of its registered office is 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K 3HQ.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2007 but not relevant The following standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, but are Directors on 11 March 2008. not relevant to the Groups operations: 2.
Accounting policies IFRS 4, Insurance contracts: The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated IFRIC 7, Applying the restatement approach under IAS 29, Financial reporting financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied in hyperinflationary economies: and to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
IFRIC 9, Re-assessment of embedded derivatives.
Basis of preparation Standards, amendments and interpretations to standards that are not yet effective These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International and have not been early adopted by the Group Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS interpretations as adopted by the The following standards and amendments to published standards are mandatory European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008, but have not been companies reporting under IFRS.
early adopted: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, IFRS 8, Operating segments effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces as modified to include the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets to equity IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of purposes.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009.
The expected certain critical accounting estimates and for management to exercise judgement in impact is still being assessed in detail by management, but it appears likely the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher that the impact will be minimal with some minor reclassifications.
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective from 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 14 Standards, amendment and interpretations effective in 2007 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus The following amendments to published standards are mandatory for the Groups that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007: or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, and the complementary amendment requirement.
The Group will apply IFRIC 14 from 1 January 2008, but it is to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements Capital disclosures, introduces not expected to have any impact on the Groups accounts.
new disclosures relating to financial instruments and does not have any impact Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective but are not relevant on the classification and valuation of the Groups financial instruments.
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published and are IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, requires consideration of transactions involving the mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later, issuance of equity instruments, where the identifiable consideration received but are not relevant to the Groups operations: is less than the fair value of the equity instruments issued in order to establish IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January 2009. whether or not they fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
This standard does not have The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the European any impact on the Groups financial statements.
It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to IFRIC 10, Interim financial reporting and impairment, prohibits the impairment the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill and investments in equity a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of instruments and in financial assets carried at cost to be reversed at a subsequent that asset.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be balance sheet date.
This standard does not have any impact on the Groups removed.
IAS 23 is not relevant to the Groups operations because there are financial statements.
93 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements effective from 1 January 2008. in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is IFRIC 12 applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted participates in the development, financing, operation and maintenance of against the carrying amount of the investment.
infrastructure for public sector services.
IFRIC 12 is not relevant to the Groups Accounting policies of associates have been aligned to ensure consistency with the operations because none of the Groups companies provide for public policies adopted by the Group.
Gains and losses on dilution of the Groups share of sector services.
equity in associates are recognised in the income statement.
IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes effective from 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 Joint ventures clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake incentive for example, loyalty points or free products, the arrangement is a an economic activity that is subject to joint control, which exists only when the multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the is allocated between the components of the arrangement in using fair values.
unanimous consent of the venturers.
The Groups joint ventures are accounted IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Groups operations because none of the Groups for using the equity method.
companies operate any loyalty programmes.
Segment reporting Consolidation A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from undertakings, together with the Groups share of results of its associates and those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing joint ventures.
products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to Subsidiaries risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group, where control is the power to economic environments.
govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis that they are of more than half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting directly attributable or the relevant portion can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
rights that are currently exercisable and convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are the date of acquisition of a controlling interest.
For the purpose of consolidation, measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the purchase consideration is allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial including intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
statements are presented in Sterling, which is also the Companys functional Excess costs of acquisition over fair value of the Groups share of identifiable and presentation currency.
net assets acquired are recorded as goodwill.
Transactions and balances The results of the subsidiary undertakings that have been sold during the year Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the are included up to date of disposal.
The profit or loss is calculated by reference exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains to the net asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased goodwill and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation previously included on the balance sheet and foreign exchange reserve balances at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign on retranslation.
currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains arising between Group Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported companies are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
as part of the fair value gain or loss and are recognised in the income statement.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are reported using the exchange rate ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
at the date of the transaction.
Transactions with minority interests The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiaries and associated The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as undertakings translated at average and closing rates of exchange are taken to transactions with parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of overseas net assets to result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the income statement.
Sterling at the end of the year using closing rates of exchange.
Any differences that Purchases from minority interests may result in goodwill, being any difference have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
between consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value As permitted under IFRS1, any differences prior to that date are not included in this of net assets of the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition see Note 18 a.
94 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations and incremental When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were recorded in contract costs are valued at fair value on acquisition and amortised over the useful equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Fair value on acquisition is determined by third-party valuations where the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are acquisition is significant.
Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at fair value treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Fair value is determined by impairment testing where an impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the Property, plant and equipment higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
Amortisation Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated charges are spread on a straight-line basis over the period of the assets estimated depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
useful lives as follows: Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic Computer software 3 years benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can Property management contracts typically 210 years be measured reliably.
Incremental contract costs 10 years Business and customer relationships 610 years Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on a straight-line basis Brands 5 years to write-off the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Impairment of non-financial assets Freehold property 50 years Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are Leasehold property over unexpired tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed less than 50 years term of lease for impairment whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
An impairment loss is Furniture and office equipment 36 years recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets Motor vehicles 35 years fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing Computer equipment 3 years impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately Useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, Goodwill the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate the asset belongs.
over the Groups share of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow method, with an In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates and specific risks associated with in the associated company.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and the asset.
If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, subject to annual impairment reviews.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Financial instruments Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet at fair less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
value when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is discussed below: relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units Investments or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value combination in which the goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each being recognised directly in equity.
When such investments are disposed or become business segment in the geographical region in which it operates Note 15. impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in equity, are recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets other than goodwill Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs The investment in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at cost, less any incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Costs associated with provision for impairment.
developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
95 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method, on temporary Trade receivables differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured purposes and the amount used for the tax base.
Deferred income tax is provided on at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
Receivables are discounted where temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except the time value of money is material.
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred income A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred income tax is determined using the tax probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference liability is settled.
Income tax and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
it is recognised in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents Pension obligations Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call with The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined banks, together with other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions of three months or less and working capital overdrafts, which are subject to an into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay insignificant risk of changes in value.
further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees Bank borrowings the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value, net benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
A defined benefit of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will the effective interest rate method.
receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors, such as age, years of service and compensation.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually Derivative financial instruments and hedging by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The method of cash outflows.
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The defined benefit scheme charge consists of current service costs, interest costs, expected return on plan assets, past service costs and the impact of any settlements Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In these cases, changes or curtailments and is charged as an expense as they fall due.
All actuarial gains and in the fair value of all derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and income statement.
Share capital The Group also operates a defined contribution group personal pension plan for new Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to entrants and a number of defined contribution individual pension plans.
Contributions the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, in respect of defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income from the proceeds.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration statement when they are payable.
The Group has no further payment obligations paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
once the contributions have been paid.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is Employee Share Ownership Trusts, are classified as treasury shares and presented available.
as a deduction from total equity.
Share-based payments Taxation The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with deferred of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is taxation.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws recognised as an expense.
enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operate and generate taxable income.
Where applicable tax regulations are subject to Equity-settled share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002 that had not interpretation, provisions are established where appropriate on the basis of amounts vested as of 1 January 2005 are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair expected to be paid.
value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
96 Savills plc Our Results Report and Accounts 2007 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial services The fair value of equity-settled share based payments is measured by the use of Insurance commission revenue is recognised when the insurance policy sold is in Actuarial Binomial option pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group effect and the amount of commission earned is determinable.
Indemnity commission revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become is recognised when the policy sold is in effect.
Mortgage commission is recognised exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, on completion with the exception of residential properties where 50% is recognised in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the at exchange and the remaining 50% at completion.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium Work in progress when the options are exercised.
Work in progress generally relates to consultancy revenue and is stated at the lower Employee Benefit Trust of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of The Company has established The Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, overheads.
the purposes of which are to grant awards to employees, to acquire shares in the Interest income Company pursuant to the Savills plc 1992 Executive Share Option Scheme, the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred Share Plan and to hold Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to employees on exercise or vesting method.
of the options awards granted under the schemes.
The assets and liabilities of the Dividend income EBT are included in the balance sheet of the Group.
Investments in the Groups own shares are shown as a deduction from shareholders funds.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Provisions Other income Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive Other income includes interest and dividend income on available-for-sale investments obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required plus fair value gains and losses on assets at fair value through profit or loss.
to settle that obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Accounting for leases obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the Assets financed by leasing agreements which give rights approximating to ownership effect is material.
finance leases are capitalised in property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and Revenue the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, then Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for depreciated over the lower of the lease life or the estimated useful lives on the the provision of services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue same basis as owned assets.
The capital elements of future obligations under is shown net of value-added tax and after elimination of revenue within the Group.
finance leases are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Leasing payments Residential transactional fees comprise capital and finance elements and the finance element is charged to the income statement.
Generally, where contracts are unconditional, revenue is recognised on exchange of contracts however, on more complex contracts, revenue will be recognised on the The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating leases are date of completion.
On multi-unit developments, revenue is recognised on a staged charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
basis, commencing when the underlying contracts are exchanged.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into the operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Commercial transactional fees Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion or when unconditional Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the lower contracts have been exchanged.
of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, if their carrying amount is Property consultancy recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through a continuing use.
Discontinued operations is a component of an entity that either has been disposed Revenue in respect of property consultancy represents commissions and fees of, or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or recognised on a time basis, fixed fee or percentage of completion.
geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a Property and facilities management separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Revenue represents fees earned for managing properties and providing facilities and is generally recognised in the period the services are provided using a straight-line Dividends basis over the term of the contract.
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends Fund management are recognised when paid.
Revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
