14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 98 98 NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS A ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The accounts and notes have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK GAAP.
Compliance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment Properties requires departure from the Companies Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is given below.
Accounting convention The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of investment properties.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that the company obtains the right to consideration in exchange for its performance.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts and VAT.
Rental income Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Interest receivable Interest receivable is recognised on the accruals basis.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets, other than investment properties, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all plant, machinery and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Plant, machinery and equipment over 2 to 5 years Depreciation is not provided on investment properties which are subject to annual revaluations.
Investment properties In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or temporary deficit is transferred to the revaluation reserve.
Permanent diminutions are recognised through the profit and loss account.
No depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties.
The Companies Act 1985 requires all properties to be depreciated.
However, this requirement conflicts with the generally accepted accounting principle set out in SSAP 19.
The directors consider that, because these properties are not held for consumption but for their investment potential, to depreciate them would not give a true and fair view and that it is necessary to adopt SSAP 19 in order to give a true and fair view.
If this departure from the Act had not been made, the profit for the financial year would have been reduced by depreciation.
However, the amount of depreciation cannot reasonably be quantified because depreciation is only one of many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Investment in subsidiary, joint venture and associated companies The investments in subsidiary, joint venture and associated companies are included in the companys balance sheet at the companys share of net asset value.
The valuation recognises the cost of acquisition and changes in the book values of the underlying net assets.
The surplus or deficit arising on revaluation is reflected in the companys reserves.
