14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 114 114 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Annualised net rents are gross rents as at a reporting date plus, where rent reviews are outstanding, any increases to estimated rental value as determined by the groups external valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method an industry-wide system of standards to assess sustainable developments and measure the environmental impact of buildings.
Capital allowances deferred tax provision In accordance with IAS 12, full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on the benefit of capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the groups experience, the liabilities in respect of capital allowances provided are unlikely to crystallise in practice and are therefore excluded when arriving at EPRA NAV.
Community interest company is a limited company conducting a business or other activity for community benefit, not purely for private advantage.
The assets and profits are dedicated to community purposes.
Compulsory purchase order CPO is the compulsory acquisition of land by a planning authority, undertaken in the public interest and with pre-defined timescales and compensation arrangements.
CSR corporate and social responsibility.
EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association a body that has put forward recommendations for best practice for financial reporting by real estate companies.
EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV is the balance sheet net assets, excluding fair value adjustments for debt and related derivatives, deferred taxation on revaluation and capital allowances.
EPRA net assets per share is EPRA net assets divided by the diluted number of shares at the period end.
Estimated rental value ERV is the groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the property.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce based on the timing of the income received.
Gearing is the level of the groups bank borrowing excluding finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Hopper is the bank of property comprising all of the land under the groups control, whether wholly owned or through joint ventures or development agreements.
IFRS International financial reporting standards.
Initial yield is the annualised net rent expressed as a percentage of the valuation.
Interest cover is the number of times group net interest payable is covered by profit before interest and taxation.
IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd. a company that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Knock-out options are interest rate swap contracts in which the bank has the right to terminate at a fixed point during the contract.
14704 12 02 2008 Proof 11 14704 14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 115 GLOSSARY OF TERMS 115 Market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Marshalling is the process of progressing projects through planning and development.
Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Pre-sold projects are those projects where we are constructing buildings that have been specified by, and designed for, or adapted by, a specific client under a specific construction contract.
On such projects, profit is recognised using the stage completion method.
Property profits includes profits made on sales of investment properties, properties held for sale and properties under construction.
Rent roll is the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been agreed as at the reporting date.
Return on equity A key performance indicator, measuring profit after tax as a percentage of average equity.
Section 106 agreements are legally binding agreements reached with local planning authorities under S106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
They address the impact of proposed developments on the local community and often involve a financial contribution by the developer.
Voids is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Weighted average debt maturity Each tranche of group debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total group debt in issue at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate is the group loan interest and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total group debt in issue at the period end.
