14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 110 110 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the sixty-seventh Annual General Meeting of St. Modwen Properties PLC will be held at noon on Friday, 28th March 2008 at the Ironmongers Hall, Barbican, London, EC2Y 8AA.
To receive and adopt the report of the directors and the accounts for the year ended 30th November 2007.
To declare a final ordinary dividend of 7.8p per share.
To re-elect as directors: i. William Oliver ii.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
To approve the directors remuneration report contained on pages 55 to 61.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: 6.
Ordinary Resolution That the authority to pay non-executive directors fees in accordance with Article 112.1 of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby increased so that such fees paid in the aggregate to all non-executive directors shall not in any year exceed the sum of 600,000, and such maximum shall be increased on each anniversary of the date of adoption of this resolution by the movement in the Retail Prices Index.
Ordinary Resolution That the authority to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 26th June 2009 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 80 amount shall be 2,922,605.
Special Resolution That the power to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 26th June 2009 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 89 amount shall be 603,870.
Special Resolution That, in accordance with Article 10 of its Articles of Association and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, the company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the board of directors may from time to time determine PROVIDED THAT the general authority conferred by this Resolution shall: a be limited to 12,077,395 ordinary shares of 10p each: b not permit the payment per share of more than 105% of the average middle market price quotation on the London Stock Exchange for the ordinary shares on the five previous dealing days or less than 10p in each case exclusive of advance corporation tax if any and expenses payable by the company : and c expire on 26th June 2009 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier, save that if the company should before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase then the purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the board Jon Messent Secretary 8th February 2008 Sir Stanley Clarke House 7 Ridgeway Quinton Business Park Birmingham, B32 1AF 14704 12 02 2008 Proof 11 14704 14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 111 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 111 Notes a Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them as auditors of the company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
b The level of aggregate fees for non-executive directors was last revised at the companys Annual General Meeting in 2004.
Given the increase in fees awarded in the intervening period, and given the change to non-executive status of Anthony Glossop, the level of aggregate fees permitted requires to be increased to 600,000. c The existing general authority of the directors to allot shares and the current disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association contains a general authority for the directors to allot shares in the company for a period not exceeding five years the prescribed period and up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount the Section 80 amount approved by a Special or Ordinary Resolution of the company.
Article 8.2 also empowers the directors during the prescribed period to allot shares for cash in connection with a rights issue and also to allot shares for cash in any other circumstances up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount approved by a Special Resolution of the company the Section 89 amount.
The board has no intention at present to exercise the authority to allot shares.
Resolution 7, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, provides for the Section 80 amount to be 2,922,605 being an amount equal to the authorised but unissued share capital of the company at the date of this report and representing 24% of the companys issued share capital at that date.
Resolution 8, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, provides for the Section 89 amount to be 603,870 representing 5% of the companys issued share capital.
The prescribed period for which these powers and authorities are granted will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held next year or on 26th June 2009 if earlier when the directors intend to seek renewal of the authorities.
d Renewal of the authority for the company to purchase certain of its own shares Resolution 9.
This resolution renews an existing authority for a further year.
The directors believe it is advantageous to have such authority but would only exercise it if it was believed to be in the best interests of shareholders.
At present, the board has no intention to exercise the authority.
e A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint another person whether a member or not as his her proxy, to attend and, on a poll, vote for him her.
Forms of proxy, one of which is enclosed, must be signed by the appointer and must be lodged at the registrars office at least 48 hours before the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
f Copies of the contracts of service between the company and Mr C. C. A. Glossop, Mr W. A. Oliver, Mr S. J. Burke and Mr T. P. Haywood are available for inspection at the registered office of the company on each business day during normal business hours and will be available on the day of the meeting, at the place of the meeting, from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
A register of directors interests will also be available for inspection from the commencement of the meeting until its conclusion.
14704 12 02 2008 Proof13 14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 112 112 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING g In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company gives notice that only those shareholders entered on the relevant register of members the Register for certificated or uncertificated shares of the company as the case may be at 6 p. m. on Wednesday 26th March 2008 the Specified Time will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the time.
Changes to entries on the Register after the Specified Time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at that meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in the notice.
h Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the approprate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received b the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CRESR Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CRESR in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special prcocedures in CREST for any particula messages.
Norma system timings and limitations will therefore appli in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
14704 12 02 2008 Proof 11 14704 14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 113 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 113 i Multiple Corporate Representatives In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that 1.
If a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and 2.
If more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives - www.
ukfor further details of this procedure.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be obtained by contacting the Registrars helpline on 0871 384 2198 or you may photocopy the form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
