The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 46 Governance Financial statements Investors Directors report continued Dialogue with our local communities Many of our plants are in suburban areas.
Our operations are closely linked with their local communities, as this is where most of our employees live and our customers operate.
It is therefore important that we maintain a close and responsive relationship with these local communities.
We have a group-wide policy for respecting all local cultures and religions, and we carefully monitor the impact our operations have on local residents, particularly with regard to noise and pollution.
To ensure continuing close relationships, we maintain an ongoing and constructive dialogue with our neighbours in order to discuss these issues.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 28th February 2008 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the report on directors remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements and the report on directors remuneration in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the company and group for that period.
The financial statements on pages 48 to 104 have been prepared on a going concern basis, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group and company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the report on directors remuneration comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for members the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
A copy of the financial statements annual report is placed on our website at www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website, and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 28th February 2008 Financial statements 48 Independent auditors report 49 Consolidated income statement 50 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 51 Consolidated balance sheet 52 Consolidated cash flow statement 53 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 96 Parent company financial statements 97 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements 99 Notes to the parent company financial statements 103 Independent auditors report for the parent company 104 Five year record Financial statements
